Good day and welcome to this FTI Consulting First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introduction I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Boyriven.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's 2011 first quarter results which were reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we will take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve uncertainties and risks.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning our plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions business trends and other information that is not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release we issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as disclosures under the heading Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP results -- GAAP measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I'd like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks everyone for joining us.
With me on the call this morning are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; David Bannister the Chairman of our North American region; and Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer.
Our results were released first thing this morning and I hope you've had a chance to review them.
If you have not they are available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com.
The first quarter was a good start to what we hope will be a very very good year for FTI Consulting.
From an operational standpoint we enjoyed a solid quarter but in terms of the strategic development of our businesses it was an outstanding one.
We successfully completed a series of transactions with LECG Corporation that significantly furthered our development as a company and enhanced our competitive position in several key practices that are important to our future.
In terms of the deployment of our capital into productive and value-generating initiatives for our shareholders these transactions and the steps we have taken with our accelerated stock buyback we believe leave us with a more efficient capitalization while also preserving the flexibility to make further investments as opportunities present themselves.
From an operational standpoint revenues in the quarter were an all-time record $362 million up from $350 million a year.
This eclipses the prior record of $360.5 million that we generated at the height of the recession in the second quarter of 2009 when our bankruptcy and restructuring activities were going full bore.
We achieved this despite our restructuring and bankruptcy activities continuing to be faced by a challenging headwind.
We achieved this because our activities that are key to an economic expansion continue to gain traction in their respective markets and to again more than make up for the decline in restructuring work.
In the first quarter the pro-cyclical businesses grew 9.5% substantially all of which was organic.
Our practices outside of the U.S.
again were a key factor in our growth.
Total revenues in Asia Pacific more than doubled year-over-year with strong organic growth in Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Strategic Communications and another great performance by our acquired Corporate Finance and Restructuring business.
Latin America grew by 24% and although our activities here are small relative to our overall business it demonstrates the market dynamics and opportunity for us in the region.
While our activities in North America and EMEA -- Europe Middle East and Africa -- in total were flat year-over-year declines in Corporate Finance and Restructuring marks some very interesting and promising growth in our other businesses.
Adjusted EBITDA on the quarter was $61.7 million or 17% of revenue.
This was down from $75.9 million a year ago on a smaller contribution from Corporate Finance and Restructuring.
Included in adjusted EBITDA for the quarter are expenses related to the LECG transactions of approximately $1.4 million which were mostly legal fees; another $500 000 or so of one-time tax adjustments and also about $800 000 of essentially nonrecurring incentive payments related to an acquisition.
We reported adjusted earnings per share in the quarter of $0.48 which included the impacts from the above including about $0.02 related to LECG.
The tax item that I mentioned took our tax rate up to 38% which is higher than the 37% we expect for the rest of the year.
And the incentive payment cost us another $0.01 so that in terms of our underlying earnings power in the quarter one could make a case for about $0.52.
The fully diluted share count of 45.6 million was down 2.5 million shares or about 5% from a year ago due to share repurchased under our current authorization.
This share count does not reflect the full impact of our accelerated stock buyback that we announced in February and have since completed.
During the quarter we repurchased and retired about 4.4 million shares and expect to receive and retire approximately an additional 600 000 shares in May for a total cost of $209 million.
Depending on the price there could also be a few more shares down the road but this essentially completes our $500 million stock repurchase authorization.
With regard to the practices revenues in Corporate Finance and Restructuring in the quarter were $107.3 million a decline of about $10 million or 9% from a year ago.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for Corporate Finance was $21.5 million compared to $34.7 million a year ago.
The declines in revenue and adjusted segment EBITDA stemmed from the continuing softness in demand for restructuring and bankruptcy services as the credit markets continue to improve.
This decline was partially offset by improvements in the segment's healthcare business as well as contributions from the Asia practice acquired last summer.
As default rates remain in historically low levels we continue to explore ways to enhance the profitability of this practice.
This included emphasis on transaction support and industry-specific domain expertise and we are actively working to shift our restructuring and bankruptcy-focused staff with appropriate skills to other practices which are experiencing increasing demand all of this while we continue to assess the longer term demand for our restructuring and bankruptcy services.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting we had another good quarter.
Revenues increased more than 5% compared to a year ago to $83 million from just under $79 million.
We have more than made up for lower activity in two large fraud cases which although they remain important contributors to segment revenue are significantly down from last year.
We have had good new case opening activity which tends to in the beginning use senior people as they're opened up but later on mature and increase in margin and utilization.
There was a solid increase in the overall level of litigation activity regulated industries maintained their strong performance and our Asian investigations practice sustained its momentum.
All these factors are good indicators I think of a return in strength of the litigation and consulting market.
Adjustment segment EBITDA on FLC was a $16.9 million compared to -- equal to 20.4% of revenues compared to $19.8 million or 25% of revenues a year ago.
Again I think the mix of mature cases and new cases will tend to have a positive effect on our margin and utilization as we go forward.
Adjusted segment EBITDA margins declined from a year ago due to the lower utilization as those large fraud cases began to wind down and higher headcount as we anticipated continuing strength in the market into the year.
Economic Consulting maintained its strong momentum from the fourth quarter.
Activity was strong across a number of our core practices within Economic most notably M&amp;A and financial economics and the European and Canadian international arbitration practice had an excellent quarter.
As a result segment revenues were a record for the quarter increasing over 10% to $74.3 million from $67.3 million a year ago.
Adjusted EBITDA for Econ [Economic Consulting] was $13.2 million equal to 17.8% of revenues down slightly from $13.5 million that we recorded last year.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter reflects increased equity-based compensation expense due to the increase in our share price and about $1 million of expenses that were allocated related to the LECG transactions.
Margins were also impacted by the investments we're making in our European and Canadian practices in term of some key hires we've made over the past six months.
And while those practices are ramping nicely they haven't yet achieved the scale necessary to generate the usual level of profitability that we've come to enjoy.
Technology had another excellent result in the first quarter.
Revenues increased almost 18% to $51 million a quarterly record driven by increased litigation and investigations activity and the continued success of our Acuity offering.
Adjusted segment EBITDA in the quarter was $18.6 million and the adjustment (sic) [adjusted] segment EBITDA margin in the quarter was a strong 36.5% due to the high level of revenue although down from exceptionally high margins a year ago.
We have aggressively managed expenses to maintain margins in the face of continued competitive pricing environment in the unit-based side of the business.
Strategic Communications revenues increased 7% in the quarter to $46.4 million driven by modest growth of retainers and some good projects worked in the largest markets of the U.S.
and U.K.
Asia Pacific maintained its strong trajectory on the strength of Australia's strong natural resource-driven economy which was a driver of M&amp;A and overall business.
Adjustment (sic) [adjusted] segment EBITDA was $5.4 million equals to 11.7% of revenue.
Margins were down slightly versus last year as they were affected by the accrual of incentive compensation of approximately $800 000 that I mentioned earlier related to an acquisition.
This will recur in the second quarter in a similar amount but then that will be completed.
Now let's turn to the strategic developments that we accomplished during the quarter.
As we announced on March 31 we completed a series of transactions with LECG Corporation that significantly advanced the key elements of our strategy namely building our goal -- global platform to enhance our ability to deliver critical thinking at a critical time and further reinforce our industry expertise from certain vertical markets where there is an increasing premium being placed on domain expertise to contend with changes that are occurring.
The transactions with LECG accomplished both these objectives.
To remind you of the details we acquired a number of practices from LECG involving more than 200 professionals across Europe the United States and Latin America.
These professionals were generating about $80 million in annualized revenues on a trailing 12-month basis.
At the end of their tenure with LECG in terms of compensation we paid about $27 million in cash for the businesses and assumed about $16 million in liabilities.
We did not take on any additional debt in connection with the transaction.
About 150 of their professionals that we added are based outside the U.S.
so we are adding significant heft to our growing capabilities in Europe and Latin America.
This represents an increase of about 13% to our non-U.S.
employee base.
Fully 30% of our employees now work outside the U.S.
which reinforces our factor of a truly global firm.
As an aside while London has been our second largest office for some time it is now vying with New York for the #1 position.
This is a remarkable development as less than five years ago we barely had any presence at all in London.
However this is more than just about putting dots on the map and showing a global presence.
The addition of these professionals is strategically important to us in terms of how they enhance our competitive position with several of our critical consulting disciplines and raise the visibility of FTI in new markets.
You've heard me speak often of our leadership and competition in antitrust economic consulting and how we are experiencing strong demand in these areas.
With our new colleagues we will putting these capabilities on the ground in Europe with the launch of our European competition in antitrust economics practice which will have teams in place in important business centers such as Madrid London and Brussels.
With the increasing trends toward cross-border M&amp;A and collaborative regulatory bodies our ability to advise in multiple jurisdictions greatly enhances our ability to service our global clients with a competitive advantage.
Similarly we are expanding the global reach of our international arbitration practice which as you know from our recent conference calls is gaining traction not only in its business performance but is also being rapidly recognized as a leader in the market.
The professionals we are adding give us greater heft in Europe where we have been off to a best start but also bring a team of 33 people to Latin America that launches our practice there.
This enables us to triangulate North America South America and Europe with a seamless team.
In addition to the competition in antitrust and international arbitration capabilities we are adding in London the LECG transaction provides the basis for launching new practices based there: a European tax advisory practice which advises FTSE 100 and Fortune 500 companies on their international tax issues while significantly enhancing our existing London-based dispute advisory practice with seasoned practitioners to complement our market-leading position in the U.S.
dispute advisory market.
Finally closer to home as we've long wished we're expanding our Forensic and Litigation Consulting team in the U.S.
especially the West Coast with the addition of several senior practitioners in our San Francisco office to bring great expertise in forensic accounting financial investigations disputes and expert witnessed testimony among others.
Apart from the global platform the other dimension of our strategy that we've often talked about is our pursuit of greater domain expertise in key industries that are undergoing transformational change or experiencing heightened regulatory scrutiny.
Our new colleagues increase our resources and global reach in industry practices where we already have critical mass such as insurance and financial institutions energy utilities airline and aviation and environmental.
And they enable us to launch new practice in areas such as these with a critical mass.
To help you understand the financial impact on our business from the addition of these new practices let me offer the following.
As I've said before the practices we have acquired were generating about $80 million in annual run rate basis.
So given that they are joining us 1/3 into the year we would expect around $60 million on revenue from them in 2011.
As we bring these folks into our business there will be in the normal transition impact and integration expenses plus the usual summer seasonality.
So we're looking at a modest contribution to profits in the next quarter or two.
But as the year progresses and they get up to running within our organization we would expect both their productivity and profitability to ramp toward our normal level of margins in the low 20s as we exit the year.
For the full 2011 we expect the contribution in the area of 10% to 15% depending on the speed with which these practices get up to normalized productivity.
And this would equate to between $0.10 and $0.15 per share to our earnings with for the reasons I state may be slightly biased to the back end.
Now let me say a few words about outlook and guidance and why I am so bullish on our market position and our company right now.
As I look across our practices they're doing almost exactly what we would expect them to do in a market environment such as the current one with a slightly improving economy.
As I look at Corporate Finance we see the core restructuring business continue to face headwinds but those practices within Corporate Finance that have domain expertise or rely on an improving economy are beginning to do very well.
Our healthcare practice had 27 new matters during the quarter after opening 23 in the fourth quarter.
Our media practice is gaining traction and our Transaction Support business has been strong with 63 new matters following 59 new matters in the fourth quarter.
10 of those in the quarter were company-side 23 were investors side and 30 dealt with lenders.
With Forensic and Litigation during the quarter our healthcare practice in that business was up 11% our pharma business was up 30% and our insurance business grew by 60%.
We also saw an improvement in the U.K.
Tech in its great performance especially took note that its Acuity product which is an innovative new product did very well.
We also did an excellent job in Europe in terms of several investigations and some FCPA work.
Matters were up our budgets are now there for on-premises and self-service SaaS offerings.
Interestingly price pressure has been softening slightly and there's an uptick in the M&amp;A market so there's every reason to be very bullish on Technology for the rest of the year.
As I mentioned we significantly beefed up our international arbitration practice and now have the top 10 recognized professionals in international arbitration in the world.
In Econ the number of new matters and active matters increased dramatically.
It was up 25% in number of matters year-over-year and up 15% from fourth quarter.
New matters are continued at a brisk pace with 145 in the quarter followed by 150 in the fourth quarter compared to a run rate last year of about 125.
M&amp;A and financial economics are robust.
We've just invested in a new public policy group headquartered in London that with the addition of three world-class economists that're only now beginning to ramp up.
And we think that with the impact of the governments into the global economy this can't help but be a growing practice as we go forward.
In Strategic Communications we again had good retainer growth.
We had excellent representation in M&amp;A transactions where they occurred but we still -- we're gaining market share and momentum but still there's been a dearth of IPO work which will be what's needed to really help them do even better than the 5% or the 7% growth that they recognize.
Finally the LECG transaction adding 200 new colleagues who I want to welcome to FTI and I think that they could have gone from many places but they chose to be at FTI harkening back to the mantra that we begun this company with almost 18 years ago which we wanted to be the place for investors for clients and most of all for the great professionals that make the other two things possible.
Accordingly while it is our policy to update our guidance only at midyear given the potential material impact on our revenues and earnings from these recent events we are increasing our guidance.
We now expect revenues in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.54 billion and earnings per share of $2.30 to $2.45.
To conclude my prepared remarks the first quarter was obviously a productive one.
We had a record quarter for revenues on the strength of growing momentum for our pro-cyclical businesses.
We invested over $200 million of our capital in buying back our shares.
And most importantly we substantially enhanced our global presence the breadth of our practices and the critical mass of our growing new markets in Europe and Latin America.
All of this positions us with more intellectual capital than ever to advise our clients on the most important issues today irrespective of where they might be.
With that we'll now turn it over to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take the first question from Tobey Sommer SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> I have a question for you about your international markets and I just wanted to maybe see if you can give us some color as far as how many offices you have or percentage of revenue in which you've only got two or three or maybe even one of your segments present versus having all five to try to give us a sense for what kind of growth and opportunities you have in some of those international locations? Tobey it's Dennis.
In most of the U.S.
operations obviously we have all of the segments the business was represented.
In London all of them are represented.
In Hong Kong all of them are represented.
The European offices in France and in Spain would probably have three of the five represented physically although they liaise with London and use some of the expertise to the other segments in those operations.
As the demand for those services increase more you would see us put in situ in Madrid which is becoming a very large office for us as well as Paris.
In Germany we would have right now 3 or 2.5 of the five in there again predominantly using technology services out of London from the Technology segment.
But on the ground communications arbitration and transactional support and restructuring would be in situ there.
Middle East again I'm not going to go through.
We have so many options Tobey to go through.
The Middle East in general in the Middle East you would have two of our services in situ.
But again a lot of projects that those people would be bringing on-board that might be serviced out of London.
Australia again you would have there two in situ but with other projects being handled by our economists coming from the U.S.
and some of our restructuring people coming out of Hong Kong.
And down in South America we would have three of the groups -- actually four in situ.
The only one that we don't have a full representation in South America now with the Technology and they're partially represented through a technological group that we have in place in Brazil.
But it's more aligned to our FLC practice.
So I think -- I tried -- we have so many offices.
I don't want to take up the entire call.
But in the aggregate we're expanding based upon the development of enough in situ demand to justify the placement of people in those markets.
In the interim we're using the logistics and the context and the relationships with the other groups on the ground in order to support projects that we have in the country for the other groups or to develop them and to bring resources in on a project-by-project basis.
Inc.</strong> It seems like the change in guidance is mostly a function of the recent hiring.
But if there is some sort of other contribution to that change could you share with us what that may be? Well I think Jack is trying to tell you that the demand curve the new openings in the first quarter are very robust not only here but in Europe and especially in Asia.
The anticipation is that these openings one is a good indicator of a significant pickup in the business and not just a pickup with market share or gain in market share.
And looking at that our feeling was that the additional capacity that we were putting on stream not only through the LECG acquisition but the actual other hires that we've made across the platform was going to benefit from good solid demand drivers the rest of the year and then just the net addition of $80 million in trailing revenues that LECG worked on.
Obviously our feeling is we can do better than that once they're fully integrated they're online and some of the groups have actually hit the ground or running very quickly and are very happy to be attached to the platform.
And now we'll move to a question from David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask a question or two on Technology practice.
I guess as we stand litigation is certainly picking up but that business continues to be pretty competitive.
I guess certainly the landscape's changed a little where it got an increase in -- more competitive say than when you initially entered the business.
I was curious on sort of thoughts there on well what we do from here differently to sort of differentiate a little bit more and see if we can get the pricing power back? Or is it a function of making some more acquisitions growth or is it more a function of say reviewing the offering and going from there? David are you specifically talking about the Tech segment? LLC</strong> Yes.
Well I think that we have two factors there.
One you're never going to have pricing power in storage because it's a reflection of Moore's law.
Every year the capacity and the cost storage goes down or increases and the price moves proportionately.
And obviously we have very large outsource operations now in the U.S.
Europe and Asia.
And you have to offset with volume the market presence.
We don't drive storage prices.
Storage prices are driven by based storage around the world were beneficiary obviously of demand.
So there you're going to see increased dollar volumes possibly decreasing margin because that's what the whole world looks at in those businesses.
I think we'll increase the share at the top end so I would turn around and say that there is a market consolidation because I think what you're seeing is pure businesses that can handle complex global challenges that have to operate within specific geographies for purposes of privacy.
So I think on our consulting side of that business I think we're gaining share.
And then finally we have a robust R&amp;D effort underway there.
Acuity has exceeded our expectations.
We are extremely pleased with it.
There will be new releases throughout the year related to Acuity and to the other areas.
And of course we are spending a lot of money to position ourselves aggressively in the cloud.
I hate to use that cliché.
But it's clearly where the world is going to go it will probably be a way of maintaining margin on storage by a different type of approach.
But we're very pleased with what we see coming out of R&amp;D.
You could expect to see a significant amount of dot releases as we build enhancements for what we think is a highly ranked highly industrial analyst platform.
And so I would say you'll see us grow there.
As we migrate into the cloud we think there will be efficiencies.
And two we're going to gain share at the top end on consulting just because there are more complex global problems and fewer companies available to do it.
And then finally you're going to see a lot of new releases from us over the balance of this year.
Yes and I think if you look -- compared this quarter to a year ago I think one of the things we noted is we had a particularly strong quarter last year on on-premise installation.
And I think that's a very profitable business and our people are reporting back that corporations are again having budgets to explore this as I mentioned in my remarks.
So I think we are working to address that need.
We're working to make sure that our new releases work seamlessly with that kind of thing.
So it's a partnership with the clients to really address their needs and we have always been a leader in doing that because of our -- we were a pioneer in this and now with our R&amp;D effort which is well funded and not a product of a venture-backed thing or something like that I think we're in good shape.
And we will of course look at acquisitions.
Like most of our practices the Technology folks have a list of things that would fit nicely as we continue to coop the end-to-end solution so that our clients have not only want to use us and have no reason to go anywhere else.
So we're very active on that front.
But as we say in the business the results weren't exactly chopped liver as they are.
So they're -- when you look at -- it is at least a nice respite for them to have a quarter where price pressure was not as significant a factor as it has been in the past.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And Jack just following up on your comment on the acquisition front.
There's one I think large one that sort of large potential sale announced in the quarter in the business at a competitor who is been having some similar issues or some issues on the pricing side and wants to get out.
Would you look at something big there? Which one are you talking about David? LLC</strong> Iron Mountain.
Oh okay.
Yes I don't think at this point we're going to buy hosting capacity.
I think that's -- there are people as the world goes on that for us it was an important tool because of the confidentiality and there are certain people who no matter what we say are not going to go to anything but a private FTI solution.
But I think in terms of being a competitor in the mass market that's not our cup of tea.
LLC</strong> Yes got you.
Okay.
And then just one last quick one if can tuck it in.
The LECG buy can you give us a sense for how much if possible in addition to what you spent what we might expect it might cost to sort of lock up the senior professionals there? To put them on the platform so to speak.
Well as you can imagine David we wouldn't have done the deal if we haven't locked up the senior professionals as part of a precondition to each one of the series of acquisition.
So new employment contracts were signed with us not only for defensive purposes but offensively to give them the opportunity to -- or based on our income model and which we think will have margin enhancements and earnings enhancements to them.
The total amount of the loans that were used were not significant relative to the buying purchase price and I think that that's all over and done and there are packages pretty much David that would look like a template that you've seen us do elsewhere.
But they are back locked up...
LLC</strong> Got you.
Perfect.
In a positive sense.
LLC</strong> Right.
For sure.
Very good.
Thank you all.
And now we'll hear from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Co.
First wanted to ask on the large cases if you could give a little more color I mean both on the Forensic side you talked about how those are down and then also Technology.
Were there any large cases? And I guess from a high level just do you feel more comfortable that that's less of a risk? You talked about that being a little bit of a risk on the last call that you were kind of thinking about for this year.
Tim it's Dave Bannister.
The quarter was much less dependent on large cases than many quarters we've had in the past.
So within the Forensic group the two large cases in which we've spoke about frequently were down about 2/3 in revenue versus the run rate last year.
There are still significant cases but they were no longer hitting the unusual category in terms of their sale versus the business.
The only other segment that would have significant cases would have been Technology segment and that the largest case there again is down significantly versus last year so depends on if it's a lot less.
In Corporate Finance there really are not mega cases going on now in general sense.
So we don't have cases that would be $10 billion or $20 billion in the quarter as those cases are behind us.
Yes Tim I think one of the reasons for the optimism that Jack was trying to project is that when you have such an increase in the number of retentions that we're getting number one some of those by simply sheer force of inertia grow into larger cases.
But it allows us to start to redeploy the younger range of our consultants into those.
As I think Jack said when you get the cases in the beginning obviously your senior people are on and as the cases expand you'd start to add to your leverage with your younger people.
And most of those people are being deployed out of the large fraud cases that we had referenced.
And so you can't turn sort of the ship in a parking lot in a couple of weeks but we're very pleased with what we're seeing as far as all the new bookings and we had a outstanding first quarter of new business development.
Yes Tim this is really the fruition of a game plan.
I mean we think we will continue to get the elephants because one we hunt them; and two we've been partners with the great firms in the world about having very successful conclusions for our clients.
But as you know we've been moving much more towards domain expertise.
When you look at those figures about our healthcare business being up 11% and our insurance business being up 60% we're trying to build things where we don't just get it because it's a big thing we get it because we are the gold standard in that particular industry and that's something that you will continue to see.
So in the process of a lot of Sturm and Drang over the last year about body headcount and the rest of it what we have done is continually focus new hires on and replacement hires on industry and domain expertise.
Okay.
That's great.
And then can I ask us about the marketing plan or the brand consolidation plan for this year.
The corporate expense was actually a little -- much lower than I had thought.
So was that fully ramped up in Q1? And I guess just how is it going from a...
No for the brands that we were going to convert sort of on a big bang in Q1 that that money for the most part has been expended probably was a little less than budget but it went seamlessly.
So we really didn't have any issues.
And the bigger brands the ones that would be converted between now and in November was where we had the bulk of the spend.
That money is targeted to be spent.
It will be spent and so far so good.
We think it's going extremely well and a lot of it is geographically driven because you just have to do your conversions your promotion and your transition based on the geography that you're in.
And I think obviously we've gone to this new organizational structure with a geographic bias and so we want those leaders to weigh in heavily on sort of the last model of execution of that dollar spend or euro spend or yuan spend wherever it's going to be.
Okay.
So should we -- is it fair to think about that expense corporate being relatively similar to Q1 may be up a little? I mean is that a good run rate? I think you'll see it go up a little in Q2 and pretty be much be as planned in Q3 and Q4.
Okay.
And then one last question is just on the Strategic Communications business can you talk a little bit about your view on that business right now? I know you said you're waiting for a greater level of IPO activity.
I guess I had thought it might be stronger than this at this point in the cycle.
Are you comfortable with retention and market share trends and everything there? And it's just a market issue or is there anything else that you're may be focused on within that business? I think we're gaining share in the base of core business especially in Europe and Asia and probably keeping share or expanding slightly here in the U.S.
I think that the capital markets have just not been robust.
It's been somewhat a soft start.
Our backlog of activity either our primary secondary fundraising bases especially again in Europe and Asia is robust.
It's there.
We simply haven't been able to execute a lot of the deals that we've worked on have literally gone to the altar only to be pulled at the last minute.
I think that while we think M&amp;A activity is definitely going to pick up M&amp;A activity on a hostile basis is clearly a big driver of business for us when that heats up.
And so I mean you're reading some of the same headlines we are so I think we may see a benefit in the second half from that.
Our retentions are up.
The pricing pressure on retention seems to have abated.
The big lack here that we still have not recovered from where we were in the last cycle is the M&amp;A/Capital Markets business.
It's -- we believe we've gained share by the retentions that we have.
We were just simply not being able to execute on the transactions.
Yes I think in light of that I mean we can't just sit around and wait for IPOs to come back.
When you look at our developments in that business one of the things that's exciting is with the new leadership we have there and with the addition of Mark Malloch-Brown over in London and with our operation in Brussels.
We're much more looking at government and global affairs as an opportunity.
I mean you're going to have given the I'll say politely involvement of government in business here and abroad given events in Spain and Greece I think the addition of this cadre of economists that I spoke about in our Economic Consulting combined with the capabilities we have in Strategic Communications I think by the end of the year you might see that be a pretty big contributor for us on not just the U.S.
basis but on a global basis.
So that's an exciting development for us.
And now we'll move to a question from Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
I guess starting out could we speak a little bit on tech consulting.
It sounds like you're bullish for the remainder of the year and clearly going well.
Could you guys speak to -- in the past there's been consideration of spending that off.
Where do you stand on that front given it looks like it has a nice runway here? It's Dennis Scott.
I think we're not considering anything like that right now.
I think again what we're looking for is support the group especially with all these new product leases that we think you're going to see in the next 16 to 18 months.
I think there's consolidation going on in the industry.
There are people exiting the industry that were referenced before.
They are the smaller companies that Jack referenced that are going to either fall by the wayside or get gobbled up.
So it's hard to ignore the dynamic in the industry that clearly the players are going to change or the players will get larger.
But I think we feel very comfortable where we are right now.
We think this is obviously one of the most valuable parts of the company.
And again I think that capital markets dictate strategy oftentimes and I don't think necessarily there's a capital market need to do anything for us right now with this.
And we feel very comfortable having this in the portfolio.
And as I've said it's hard to ignore what's going on in the macro sense but we feel in a very good position.
Yes I think we're -- I'm as excited about the business.
I don't want to sell it.
I mean Capital Markets will not dictate something on this in my opinion.
We have the best leadership team we've ever had there with  Seth Ryerson and Eddie O'Brien on the R&amp;D side and Adam Bendell.
And I think we just -- we have a great prospects for that business.
It's the kind of thing where they have an opportunity because of their stature in the field to do collaborative projects with people that may have a different type of expertise than we do.
But I think it's definitely is part of the family and part of the reason why we have fared better than some of the people that are is some of  the business we're in is because we are able to offer that as part of our offering.
So I think let's put that to bed and just continue its growth spurt and its profitability.
And consistent mid-30s EBITDA margins is a reasonable expectation for that business considering it's been performing that and you guys are managing it as such? Yes we try to say when it's a little bit below that please come back to the mid to low 30s; when it's a little bit above that please come back.
So yes that's what we're looking for.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just switching up a little bit.
SMG no longer called SMG but could you give us an update on how that's performing? Yes the senior budget for the first quarter I think the utilization is going up.
They've been active in several projects in the small investment bank that we have.
The projects have not closed yet.
That could have a positive influence on us going forward.
Clearly the commercial real estate market where they really play is starting to heat up even more.
So we're looking for SMG to have a good year.
Now moving to a question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just want to make sure I was clear on something.
I think you raised your EPS guidance 10% -- $0.10 at the low end $0.05 at the high end.
But it sounded like you said that LECG added $0.10 to $0.15 for the year.
Is that correct? And if it is where is the underlying downgrade? And I have a follow-up.
There's no underlying downgrade.
I think what we're trying to -- we try to give you a range.
We weren't trying to be exactly precise that it was just going to be additive.
We're trying to give you a range of what we thought LECG could do.
And rather than get too far ahead of ourselves we -- look I think we have a reputation of trying to be relatively conservative on these things and I think that's the way we did it.
Okay.
And then I calculated about $6 million of FX on the revenue in the quarter.
Does that sound right to you? Let me check Paul.
Yes we'll check and give the answer back on the call.
It's okay.
Then just while you're checking the healthcare practice can you tell us how big that is within restructuring? Is that just hospital restructuring or is it also performance improvement? And if it is what are you doing? Is it revenue cycle throughput? Yes it's about [ph] $60 million.
It is all of the above.
It's revenue cycle it's operational improvement and it is -- it would be core restructuring.
And the bulk of the business now is in the more consultative areas as you can imagine operational improvement and op restructure.
More importantly we have healthcare expertise in many of our segments that also have substantial size so we think of it as the totality of our domain expertise.
It's not a $60 million business.
It's probably $150 million to $200 million business.
Next question will come from Bill Sutherland with Boenning and Scattergood.
Inc.</strong> So the expenses that you all called out last call on the operating -- the network operating centers and CRM are they tracking along as far as the ranges you put up there? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And Jack on the last call you referenced activity really starting to heat up in the private equities.
Is that sustaining? Well I think the private equities are very active when you look at the case openings we have on the transaction support side.
I think that's indicative [ph] of 50 60 new cases a quarter.
That's indicative of that.
It's an area of concentration for us because there's so many different things between our process improvement people and merger post-merger integration activities.
It's very much a focus for us.
Inc.</strong> So that is contributing a lot to those new matters that you're getting? Okay and...
I think some -- I wouldn't say that it's contributing a lot to the new matters.
When you think about M&amp;A as a major factor across all of our businesses and the single as I say the single biggest driver that could move us up to and beyond the high end of the range I think still is the strategic M&amp;A is the major focus because it affects the technology in the second request and it affects Econ.
So it's more in our transaction support that the private equity firms in terms of M&amp;A activity would affect us.
Inc.</strong> Right right.
The other thing you called out was the credit crisis.
Is that flowing through like you expected? Well the litigation from the credit crisis is absolutely.
I mean we're -- I think one of the reasons the -- when we talk about financial economics a lot of that business where it's been very strong has been the result of the credit crisis.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me on the Tech growth would you think that first quarter is something that can be sustained in terms of growth rate for the year? Yes Tech is -- they are involved in some great projects.
They're going to be releasing new products.
But I think with the caveat that no if the core projects that they're working on right now continue they will clearly add new business.
And if the new products that we plan on releasing get traction we think they can have excellent growth through the rest of the year.
The next question will come from Arnold Ursaner with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> On the LECG acquisition of professionals will many or most of them have to take garden leaves? No none.
That's why we did it -- it was much cleaner to do an acquisition than to try to do group hires even though LECG has their own plan of sort of winding down.
They had contractual control over a lot of the individuals that if we were just to hire them Arnie you're right on required especially in Europe garden leaves or just some states refrain from competition.
All of that was waived by LECG as part of the consideration of the purchase.
So all the people came over clean and we're able to sign new contracts with FTI as a condition precedent for the deal and executed contemporaneously with purchasing the company.
So there are no garden leave issues there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So with the annualized type revenue number should be a pretty good starting point can you speak to the margins on their business versus your corporate average? And what sort of goal you have for that over the next 12 to 18 months when they integrate in? I think first of all it's impossible to speak to their margins on a trailing basis simply given the issues that we're going on in LECG and I'll leave that as that.
I think that the people that we have I would turn around and say we're the stars of the show there and have tremendous demand power behind them individually as well as the groups that came over.
There is no reason that after sort of a transitory period -- they went through a lot in the last six months there.
And so you're always a little nervous simply extrapolating out where you think it ought to go without some degree of hiccup and that you're hoarding people from one office into other office new support new systems the normal run-of-the-mill integration issues that you have.
It's going along very smoothly so far.
It's not perfect but we would anticipate that we should exceed their run rate towards the second half of the year in revenues based on some of the bookings we're seeing and some of the business we've been able to already generate.
For example I know the competition practice in Europe was the best competition practice.
Jorge Tadeo [ph] was the #1 guy there and they're already cooperating extremely closely with our #1 practice over here in the U.S.
They've been handing off assignments to each other.
So I think you do have that working for us in the second half as well.
I think that the earnings contribution is to be margin.
Our expectations is they'll earn exactly what the rest of our groups earned and should be in the 20s.
A good proxy would be to average Econ and to average FLC together because it's almost an approximate 50-50 split of the people.
So our target would be to get them to that margin as soon as possible hopefully by the end of the year.
We would anticipate a nice positive margin in this quarter but nothing earth shattering and moving quickly towards our margin.
And that's why we try to be conservative and use the range that we did given that you may have one quarter of integration.
That's the one we're in right now.
Inc.</strong> Over the last six or nine months your basic -- I wouldn't use the word guidance because that's a little too strong but your overview of how we should think about your business is essentially keep the trends flat for what we're seeing over the last few quarters.
Could you perhaps speak to that and talk about your trends in Q1 by month? Was there any noticeable change during the quarter? No it's just a very strong quarter.
I mean I think there's probably a lot of macro drivers I think as Jack said.
Without a doubt the litigation and regulatory business has really picked up.
And to some very interesting global type of engagements that are new to the quarter.
The M&amp;A work our Econ guys are going flat out practically and so the addition of all these new power from LECG especially in Europe is very welcome.
And so those trends are robust and I think do probably indicate as Jack said sort of a loosening of the purse strings at some of the corporate budgets and maybe just sort of a finality and people waiting to resolve disputes.
They've been pushing them off and now they're trying to get them over.
So I think the demand drivers which are really the new bookings were extremely strong in the quarter.
Inc.</strong> [indiscernible] so should we be thinking more about an acceleration in trends starting in this quarter continuing through the balance of the year in your pro-cyclical pieces? I think if you look at the businesses as I said they're kind of doing what we would have thought.
Technology is probably the most sensitive to pick up in the economy so it's kind of the canary in the mine shaft.
Econ gets especially in an M&amp;A market like we're experiencing now gets a lot of the business before.
Forensic/Litigation is again is a steady solid performer that tends over year in and year out to grow with the economy.
So I think if you look at these specific sets of results with Technology at 17% FLC at roughly the growth rate that people were anticipating for the economy Econ a little bit above I think this quarter is probably a pretty good template that that would be a good result if we get back.
And then if we get the businesses in Corporate Finance that are pro-cyclical and domain straightened out and we get the -- we reach the bottom on the restructuring I think that's kind of the template for the year that we're looking at.
And now we'll move to a question from Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
I think -- my first question is just on the litigation environment.
What has caused the pickup this year in your estimation? And is there any pent-up demand in that recovery? Joseph I wouldn't refer to it as pent-up demand although I like the concept.
But I would prefer to it more as -- following every financial crisis if you look at 2001 2002 the big litigation years were '05 '06 '07.
They weren't right following that because you have the investigation phase.
You have the phase where when you're coming out of the event itself typically people are especially insurance companies are shy about funding a lot of stuff.
So we're seeing a natural cycle where I think there's a human cry to quote "go find the bad guys." You see editorials and all the newspapers about nobody seems to have paid the price for the financial upheaval.
Well now people are exploring that when you look at the list of defendants you look at the sizable litigation that's being filed you look at even in the cases we have.
We just really came up against the statute of limitation in the filing of all the cases.
So I just think you'll see a relatively extended.
And for good or ill litigation begets litigation so it's a part of what's driving it.
I agree with Jack.
I think a lot of it is is sort of a final reckoning of what happens in the financial meltdown.
Everybody is now -- the protagonists are alive.
They have money.
Their balance sheets are secure.
The people that feel they were injured mostly institutional investors or other counter-parties have something to go after and sue.
So a lot of the pent-up demand on the litigation is now maturing as Jack said the statute of limitation has driven or it's just driven by the reality that I have real defendants to go after that aren't necessarily protected by the government's investment and things like that.
So I think we're certainly seeing a lot of that.
I think we'd be naive not to think that there isn't a benefit to us and I'm not trying to say we're the only one.
I think you've taken -- a major competitor going has gone out to the market over the last two years and on LECG.
And they had excellent people.
They did excellent work.
We're the beneficiaries of some of that.
I'm sure other companies are as well over the last two years.
And I think as far as the larger cases there are fewer people to go to who can work on these big complex international cases.
And so I think part of the demand driver is they don't have as many people to turn to as maybe they did in the past.
You talked about earlier the restructuring practice.
I wonder if we can revisit that.
I mean do we feel like we've bottomed here in the first quarter in the restructuring practice? Or do you think we faced a couple more tough comps either in that practice or FLC from some large engagements? The comps certainly get easier after this quarter.
If you recall last year's first quarter was still a pretty strong Corporate Finance/Restructuring quarter.
And then it fell out of bed in the -- restarting about late April of last year.
You may remember that we even came out with a pre-earnings release commenting on that.
So the comps certainly get easier.
As to whether we're at an absolute bottom we currently see default rates of around 1.5% to 1.4% which is way below the historical average of the 20-year average of around 4% 4.5%.
But if those continue at those levels we probably still have a little bit of room left under our heel.
But the world tends to regress to me so we don't think we're going to have 1.5% default rates in perpetuity.
Okay.
And then my last question I was wondering could you just comment maybe on what organic growth expectations are in guidance and whether that includes any kind of acquisition activity going forward? Well I think it's directly related to your last question.
I think we recorded about a 9% round numbers organic growth for the company x restructuring.
And restructuring itself was cushioned by an acquisition and that's Ferrier Hodgson.
So it overcame an awful lot of correction in the restructuring run rate.
I think you should see us continue at that level if not even better in the more pro-cyclical businesses.
The net number will be a function of your question how quickly do we find a floor for the classic restructuring.
As David said we'll start lapping easier numbers.
Most of the big cases have already ended so you're not lapping those billings.
And we're starting to see a pickup inside of Corporate Finance of their non-restructuring business in certain areas.
And we need that to pick up more.
But I think that the net number is going to be really derivative of where that bottoms up.
The revenue last year was $1.4 billion.
Our original guidance of where our corporate expenses was around $1.46 billion.
Substantially all of that was organic.
There's a little bit of a effect from the Asian acquisition of maybe $15 million or so.
But the challenge and we had to determine how this is going to show up in our filings is how do we characterize the LECG transactions.
Some of those historically would have been referred to in our vernacular as organic because they were hiring people.
And a little bit of it was -- took this legal form of acquisitions.
These will be so quickly integrated that we really are not going to be able to track them effectively as stand-alone acquisitions.
So people are going right into our offices sitting in the same seat next to people.
So my guess is we're going to end up having to talk about that as organic growth recognizing we just put out a little bit capital put out [indiscernible] capital to make that happen.
There are no future acquisitions in the guidance.
Yes and there's no earn outs or anything associated with LECG obviously.
So as David said it will pretty much morph into organic.
Now on the other hand we are in conversation with people constantly.
We are as you guys know acquisitive.
We will generate a lot of cash that we'll be putting to use.
And so we are not against doing more acquisitions this year and in fact we'd probably plan that we would it's just difficult to forecast.
But it is not in the guidance.
And now we'll move to a question from Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Great.
I just wanted to follow up on the accelerated buyback.
And it sounds like -- at what point is that completed? It sounds like there's another 600 000 shares or so.
Or just at what point does it essentially end in terms of acquiring shares in the public market? Contractually the understanding with the agreement goes through basically through the end of the year.
We will be -- we are substantially complete with the main phases of it by sort of mid-May which is what 600 000 that we referred to.
So the balance of the year the counter-party which is Goldman Sachs in effect has the ability to cover their short -- or purchase the shares they delivered to us.
And depending on how they do that and how the price of the stock reacts we could get more shares.
We will not get any fewer than we talked about.
That's the top side of the more shares might be as much as 10% more it just depends with the stock price.
There's really no way for us to predict what that number is now.
Got it.
But it could be upward to a 10% more than...
[indiscernible] 10% more.
We hope not.
We hope that [indiscernible] operate it down.
Right.
And it's 10% obviously of what's already been purchased right? Correct.
[indiscernible] It could be as much as another 500 000 shares.
It could be as steep as zero.
On top of the 600 000 shares already that are earmarked for May? Correct.
And the next question will come from Chitra Sundaram with Cardinal Capital.
Very useful conference call.
But the one piece I guess I'm a little puzzled still by is what was the -- something must have changed between the time when you all gave the guidance for Q4 and now the guidance -- sorry the guidance at the time of the Q4 call and the revised guidance now for 2011.
Obviously the acquisition is one piece and you've broken that out.
But there's another $0.15 to $0.20 kind of if I'm not wrong that appears to be based on an improved view of the organic environment organic growth environment.
You've given a lot of color around it but I'm just wondering what changed for you between the two calls...
Our modus operandi is that we only look at those kind of softer issues twice a year once when we originally give guidance and second at the middle of the year.
We only really revise our guidance when there's been a definitive transaction.
This year that would be the share repurchase the accelerated stock buyback which is what caused us to raise our guidance earlier in the year.
And then this time it was the acquisition of the people and practices from LECG.
So we started the year with $2 to $2.20.
When we announced the accelerated share buyback we went from $2.20 to $2.40.
And now with the advent of the LECG transaction we've gone from $2.30 to $2.45.
And we'll have a follow-up question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking my follow-up.
Because of LECG is it possible to give us revenue-generating headcount by division where it is currently just to help with the modeling? And second maybe just current shares outstanding? You mean the additions from LECG each one or -- because the tables in the back do reflect the addition of those folks.
Oh they do.
Okay.
Yes.
That they would include the LECG folks.
Yes.
Well they came in literally right at the end of the quarter.
Right.
But that -- are those average numbers? Or those...
For the period.
Quarter end.
Great great.
And the current share count? $42 million? Yes.
Yes.
That again I think is...
It's in the tables.
In the tables but that $42 million.
Great.
And then finally I calculate your international exposure in about 24% of revenue with LECG.
Does that sound right? It was 21% or so in the quarter.
So obviously...
Yes that's about right.
That's a pretty good guess.
But it should ramp because we have a lot of LECG in there.
[indiscernible] And Paul I think that you were asking about the currency FX? Correct.
Yes our revenue in the first quarter had about $1.9 million of currency FX in the revenue.
And that had a negligible impact on earnings.
And we'll take our final question today from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Just wanted to sneak one or two more numbers questions in here.
The depreciation and amortization was a fair amount lower than I thought.
So just wanted to know if you could give us an updated view and then I guess including the LECG transaction in there.
And then also on the interest expense or more specifically the other income line and that's been somewhat volatile from quarter-to-quarter.
Is there any visibility you can give us on what to expect from that going forward? Well I think the amortization would've been impacted by the fact we have a large brand write-off back in the fourth quarter.
So where we were to amortizing say acquisition-related expense that had to be attributed to the brands that we bought.
We chose to write those off and took that in one fell swoop in the fourth quarter.
So that would have had one impact that would have dropped.
There's no significant -- there are no brand transfers from over with LECG.
Any of the amortizations related to peoples' contracts goes directly into comp so it wouldn't effect that line really not much in the form of assets maybe some leasehold amortization which show up.
But again that will be up in the operating line possibly.
I don't see a lot of impact to that depreciation.
I mean there clearly will be some.
I just don't see much.
What I would say Tim is that if you think of it we added roughly 5% 6% more people.
Our depreciation across the company tends to be somewhat headcount driven because its [indiscernible] and so forth and so on.
But you'd be a little more concern to that because a fair amount of depreciation also runs in the Tech segment.
So I would say it's not going to be much of a change in depreciation as we fully deploy these people.
Plus many of them are moving into existing office spaces where we already have depreciation.
So I think it's a negligible effect from LECG.
And in terms of the balance for the year modeling the depreciation could go up a little bit as we do a little bit more work at these service centers and they get put in places.
But again I don't think it's a big effect.
Yes there's a little bit of uptick.
We bought our Asia Pacific service center on for technology services reconstruction technology.
But as David said that's not going to have a dramatic impact.
Okay.
And then the other income line it was like $2 million this quarter.
You had some periods worse than that but it's been bouncing up and down.
So I'm not sure what to expect for that.
[indiscernible] FX would be reported.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Great.
That concludes our session today.
Thank you for joining us and we look forward to talking to you at the end of the next quarter.
Thank you.
And once again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's call.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Mollie Hawkes.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's 2011 second quarter results as we reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that involves uncertainties and risks.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning our plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results performance expectations plans or intentions business trends and other information not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from these contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in which earnings press release issued this morning.
A copy is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as disclosures under the heading Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information on our most recent Form 10-K and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you very much Mollie.
Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our CFO; and David Bannister the Chairman of our North American region.
In response to our discussions with the over the last couple of weeks in a survey we did we are going to keep our prepared remarks to a minimum this morning.
There are a couple of things that I'd like to give you as potential takeaways from the quarter but we want to leave as much time as possible for your request for questions and drilling down on the issues that are really jugular to you.
I would ask you to remember that the goal of FTI was to be the #1 firm that people turn to worldwide for solutions to the jugular issues that affect their wealth their reputation and indeed their very lives.
Our strategy or if you will our value proposition was to attract hire acquire and most importantly retain the best talent in the world to help clients identify those jugular issues devise value-added solutions and then deliver them locally through the last model of execution in a timely effective thorough seamless and cost-efficient manner.
I think that this was a significant quarter in validating that strategy and in achieving that goal.
And I would like to give you a couple of things to think about in terms of the quarter.
The first was that this was an excellent quarter.
The company grew 15% as a whole.
Second our pro cyclical businesses as a whole are more than gaining traction.
They are strong with 3 of them having excellent results.
Third our activities outside North America are also very strong.
Four with the steps we've taken in the quarter we believe we are at or near the bottom of the market for our Corporate Finance/Restructuring activities.
Five our financial position is strong.
And six we are reaffirming our guidance.
With regard to the quarter revenues rose 15% to a record $400.4 million the highest quarterly revenue in the history of the company and our second consecutive quarterly record.
Adjusted earnings per share for the quarter excluding the special charge were $0.64 up 23% over adjusted EPS in the second quarter last year when there were no special charges.
Adjusted EBITDA was 16.6% of revenues which included the ramp-up expenses of our newly acquired LECG professionals as they began to get traction.
With regard to our pro cyclical businesses as a whole they grew 25%.
And the organic growth for these businesses was a robust 16%.
The delta represented growth from the LECG transactions which are more than on plan.
Highlights in the pro cyclical businesses were 46% revenue growth in Economic Consulting of which 18.5% was organic; and 33% revenue growth in Technology all of which was organic; Forensic and Litigation Consulting grew revenues at 15% 9.5% of which was organic; and Strategic Communications grew revenues at about 7.5% though much of this was due to foreign exchange.
With regard to activities globally revenue outside the U.S.
this quarter was $102 million or 26% of our total activities both are all-time records.
Revenue in Europe Middle East and Africa grew 52% compared to the prior period.
And 20% of this growth was organic reflecting improvements in our Economic Consulting Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Strategic Communications segments.
Total revenues in Asia-Pacific nearly doubled compared to last year 40% of which was organic revenue growth with strong organic growth in Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Strategic Communications.
The remainder represents the excellent acquisition we did and the turnaround in consulting business late last year.
Latin America's revenues grew 48% year-over-year 26% of which was organic.
Although Latin America is still small relative to the rest of the FTI's businesses these results signify the dynamic market opportunities for FTI in the region as their quarterly results continue to follow a rapid growth trajectory.
With regard to our Corporate Finance/Restructuring business we and more importantly professionals in that business believe that is at or near its bottom.
The last couple of months have seen some firming in the core practice and we took significant action in the quarter to both position business for the low levels of core restructuring we are currently experiencing and in anticipation of different areas we expect to grow.
Most importantly new leadership took the helm in Corporate Finance/Restructuring business and we took steps to strengthen our Transaction Support business in anticipation of the resumption of a vibrant financing market in the back half of the year.
With regard to our financial position after funding the accelerated stock buyback and the acquisition and ramp-up expenses of the LECG transactions we have $99 million of unrestricted cash and no borrowings on our $250 million revolving credit line.
While our operating cash flow in the quarter was $26.4 million compared to $49.2 million in the prior year's quarter this decline was primarily a result of a decline in core U.S.
restructuring in the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment and the shift in some of its business to Asia as well as this dynamic growth in our Economic Consulting segment including through the LECG transactions.
As a result of these structural changes in our accounts receivable makeup our DSOs increased by 19 days as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
On further diagnosis about 4 days of this change were related to the presence of our business in Asia where traditionally or historically payment has been slower 4 were due to the decrease in our core restructuring activities and 6 were due to the tremendous growth in our Economic Consulting business which has always had receivables that were the longest the company and then 1 or 2 extra days were from receivables that we acquired in the LECG transaction again which historically had a longer time.
If these trends continue with record results in econ and a flat or declining restructuring we will have effectively had a onetime investment of additional cash in the working capital of our business.
Regardless of this our cash collections for the quarter were excellent at approximately $347 million and the current collection experience of accounts receivable has not changed materially.
Therefore we look forward to a strong cash flow from operations results in the remainder of 2011.
During the quarter the company received and retired approximately 628 000 shares of its common stock pursuant to the accelerated stock buyback transaction entered in 2 of March of this year bringing the total number of shares received under this transaction to approximately 5 062 000.
Under the terms of this transaction the company may receive additional shares later in 2011 depending on the average price of the company's stock.
With regard to our outlook we are enthusiastically reaffirming guidance.
While our third quarter is typically seasonally lower than our second quarter we are encouraged by the performance of all our businesses and our sustained global revenue expansion.
As I said we are reaffirming our guidance for the full year 2011 of revenues in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.54 billion and adjusted earnings per share of $2.30 to $2.45.
With that we would like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Just in the quarter could you talk about if there was any EPS impact to the LECG transaction? And then remind us how you think that ramps over the next 2 quarters.
And then maybe the revenue from what -- what are you thinking about the revenue impact in the June quarter.
Also from LECG.
We did about -- Paul it's Dennis.
We did about $23.5 million in revenue for LECG which was higher than our initial expectation.
I think what we had told was we thought were reporting over about on the low side $60 million to the high side $80 million run rates.
So clearly we're a little higher than the high end of that run rate.
We anticipated no contribution in the quarter from LECG because of really the -- it wasn't a clean acquisition from the point of view of buying a company that was up and running.
It was really sort of taking a wide assortment of segments out of a company and trying to quickly transition them physically into our operation.
It did however report about a $0.02 contribution to us which was clearly above expectations.
We would anticipate that especially in the Forensic and Litigation units that the number of people that have been brought in there which had a depressing impact on their margin for the quarter would start to ramp up.
And I think you'll see those contributions start to ramp up to where by the end of the year they should start to mirror what our normal traditional earnings contribution would be.
And we would anticipate next year that we would get 4 quarters that would look like the segments that the various groups have been integrated into.
But based on that and just [indiscernible] calculations it looks like that in back half of the year LECG's going to add I don't know somewhere between $0.05 to $0.10.
I just done that really quickly.
Maybe I just don't understand the EPS guidance not going up if you're going to get that...
I think one we would agree with you on LECG.
But I think the thing that we have to be careful about is you're staring at the same screens that we are and there is a lot of confusion of what's going to happen in both our major markets here and in Europe in the fourth quarter.
And I think that clearly what we've done is we'd look at the trends that we have.
The trends continue and the macro environment stays where it is we certainly have a chance to do better than the top end of our range.
On the other hand if the trends turned down we could see a slowdown in the Europe.
And we obviously have gotten much larger in Europe and we could see a slowdown here.
And that would put us still in the range but certainly not at the top all or above it.
So I think...
Also Paul we did -- in our May guidance we did update it for we thought the impact would be.
So it's in there.
Right right.
Okay understood.
I guess I thought maybe because of the slightly higher revenue that you might increase.
I think I understand now with your outlook on the uncertain economy.
Just you talked about some management changes and I think you talked about it when you issued the positive pre-announcement.
Have you stated what was changed who's left or the changes you made? And finally when did you get the shares in the quarter or just what's the outlook for the third quarter share count? Well we changed as we had told you in the beginning of the year we created a very large regional profit centers given our anticipated growth in those areas to more effectively control the go-to-market strategy and obviously the costs of that.
Because of the implementation of that organization we created certain redundancies in some parts of the organization to where either the individuals or the value of the individual contribution we did not view it as sustainable going forward.
So we made changes in Corporate Finance in the top management.
We made changes in Strategic Communications.
And then we looked hard at some of the operations inside of Corporate Finance given sort of the run rate that we're looking at right now that now seems to be firming up.
We took the opportunity to make some changes to align the personal complements there to what we see as the upside opportunities specifically transactional support growing and what we anticipate the run rate on restructuring would be again assuming that the economy that we're in right now doesn't change dramatically one way or another.
Great.
And then the shares? The shares we anticipate we will get one more delivery of shares.
It's driven as you know by the price.
I mean obviously an accelerated stock buyback is accomplished by very large short of your stock and then the investment bank covered -- has a right to cover over a certain period of time and then they're delivering shares to us during that time.
I think we would get one more delivery.
And to give you a number I'd be guessing.
[indiscernible] to share count.
Yes I don't think it would have a major effect on the share count.
I'm just thinking more about the Q-on-Q change I don't know when you receive the shares in the June quarter the 600 000.
When we stated that June the shares we got in the second quarter we got early in the second quarter.
The weighted average shares were 42.5 million.
There's 41.5 million outstanding now.
And additional shares coming are late in the year so that it was said that we'll have a material impact on the weighted average shares for the rest of the year.
And next with Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> If you gave this I apologize in your prepared remarks.
But what was the organic rate of growth for the overall business sequentially excluding the contribution from LECG? Yes.
This is Roger Carlile.
It was 6.2% was the overall organic growth rate.
Inc.</strong> And how do you think about in this kind of environment what should we think about in terms of the mix of contribution to organic growth between utilization and/or rate? Well I think #1 you have a negative contribution coming out of Corporate Finance because it's shrinking so that's an anchor.
I think as Jack said we feel we're at or approaching a bottom there.
But rate is down in Corporate Finance and demand is down so the actual drag is a combination of both.
In econ clearly they are extremely busy.
And rate is not an issue and utilization is not an issue.
And we've as you know Tobey has been having capacity there to reflect what we saw was an increase in demand.
In tech it's really not utilization-driven as much as it's demand for the technology and the services.
And so that's a totally different explanation.
I think in FLC it would be a combination of both rate and utilization improvement.
In FLC they have to digest more people who came over without a substantial book of business porting over from LECG.
Although we believe given the activity that we're seeing those people involved in that that's going to change very quickly.
Yes.
The growth in the quarter and I would anticipate for the rest of the year will be driven either by utilization or volume depending on a particular business.
I think we're still in a rate-constrained world much less our industry.
So I think it's going to be because of the ability that we're seeing the improvement in the post cyclical the volumes or in terms of the weigh up in technology.
I mean we're back to the -- knock on wood that it seems that we're back to the halcyon days.
So I think it's going to be -- this point in the cycle always starts with increases in your volumes and your utilization and then rate follows.
Inc.</strong> Right okay.
Two other questions.
One could you comment on the competition in tech? From what I can remember kind of during the recession we had at the early entry point of the funnel some smaller market players kind of competing on price for market share.
And then if you could also comment on should we view the robust activity in the Economic Consulting segment as a leading indicator and a feeder to other segment's future revenue? It's David Bannister let me take the question on Technology and I'll stick the econ question back to Jack.
In Technology there are some interesting things that went on during the quarter.
We've had 2 acquisitions of some consequence in that space.
One was a very nice small competitor called Clearwell.
It was bought by Symantec.
We think it was an order of magnitude a $50 million business.
And that would've been the type of company we've spoken about in the past where they were very aggressive on price to gain market share or to gain entry.
And now that's become part of a much larger company with a somewhat distribution strategy.
The other transaction that went on was Iron Mountain sold their e-Discovery assets along with their hosting assets to Autonomy.
Our understanding is that business was not particularly robust or growing business but we really don't have a great deal of clarity.
The competitive set is -- it really seems to be centering in on 1 or 2 other high-quality companies Ontrack would be the most obvious one which is part of a large leveraged buyout now.
And it seems to do very well as they take a somewhat different approach than we do.
They tend to be a very high-volume one-size-fits-all company as opposed to more of a consulting [ph] company.
And then a fair amount of still modest-sized service providers to the company.
So the big 4 would have e-Discovery capability using other people's technologies and then a number of regional sort of providers.
So I think we're start -- the long and short of that I think we're starting to see the industry consolidate around a number of larger players.
It's reaching a somewhat more mature level in the sense of how people are behaving in the market.
And we think all of that is good for us that we don't such irrational venture-backed companies that try to grow by using price as their sole way.
Dennis do you want to add something to that? No.
I mean I agree with what David said.
I think clearly it's heartening to us to see the valuations that people are paying for smaller-sized companies with smaller earnings contributions if any.
I think it shows that a lot of the larger leaders in technology view this as a real growth opportunity.
I think to your question on economics I think it's really difficult to predict.
I think clearly the M&amp;A activity is extremely robust.
Our people are in sort of the vortex of it.
There was a prediction by several investment bankers yesterday on one of the business channels that the anticipated decline of the dollar was going to trigger a lot of inbound M&amp;A activity from Asia which would have a currency arbitrage opportunity.
So if that continues Tobey we would stay very busy.
There are second request opportunities that are associated with this that our Technology folks have a chance to look at.
So that clearly could be beneficial to them but it's very hard to tell with the exception of Technology and special request what other spillover effect would come from all of this competition activity.
Remember that they're typically involved on the M&amp;A front and strategics work which typically do a lot of their own due diligence and typically aren't involving a lot of outside financing.
The more heartening thing is that with the debt crisis solved ha-ha it looks like that we have a more vibrant lending market in the back half of the year.
So we're expecting the private equity funds to resume their really high level of activity.
And that's the one that really reflects well on all of our businesses.
So that's a very good sign for us as well.
Inc.</strong> Right Jack because they're not heavily resourced and therefore have to lean on you a little bit more so? Well not so much that as the fact that they borrow money.
So we have the banks.
We do the due diligence.
We have the Transaction Support which we mentioned we're beefing up with adding some really spectacular senior folks.
There are just a whole lot of things that we can do.
And increasingly they are also buying companies in their portfolio companies which would involve our people in their approval process either economist or second requests.
And that just creates a lot of activity all around the block.
And next we'll go to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
First I want to follow up on the LECG margin if I could.
Just based on the $0.02 of accretion I'm kind of getting to a 6% 7% margin for that overall LECG revenue.
And if you said forensics was a drag sounds like economic was...
Tim it basically broke down that the econ side which was predominantly Europe and South America came in about where we would expect which was pretty strong.
The forensics which was a more difficult transition over we didn't expect to have a great quarter although they're starting to generate very good activity.
Overall you're right it was about 6% to 7%.
And obviously we would expect that to migrate not in 1 quarter or 2 quarters but it'll migrate up to a more traditional margin.
And so is the economics piece already at the margin you would...
Tim I mean predominantly it was -- yes it's about 300 400 basis points below what our traditional economic margin is but still a healthy margin.
And yes we would anticipate that migrating upward again.
If you remember the LECG transaction there was a lot of business that ported over on their old comp model and we allowed the people -- we didn't try to change things they were working on.
We reflected our comp model and sort of the FDI way of doing business on the new things.
And that's going to burn itself out through the system.
Probably it'll all be out of the system in this coming -- quarter that we're in.
So that's why I would anticipate you're going to see improvement across all of the LECG acquisition.
And then just of nature of the transaction trauma that the transaction had surrounding it of sort of having to go in and grab these people out very quickly put them in our organization this is normal disruption.
I think that's quickly dissipating.
So I think they're operating now on a more normalized environment and these are tough light people that we were delighted to get.
And we anticipate they're going to produce very similar results to our existing folks.
Timothy I want to add to what Dennis just said about the people we got.
Jack and Dennis and I and Roger have been out in the roads the last couple of weeks.
We've been running.
We're heading out to San Francisco next week and so forth.
And we are thrilled with these people who came over.
They're fitting in well.
They're good folks.
It really has been gratifying to see how all that has worked.
Okay.
And then on Strategic Communications the headcount ticked down a fair amount there.
I mean can you talk about is there turnover? I guess maybe for the overall company and not specifically what was driving that trend? Well I think they're fine-tuning it.
I think the capital markets in Europe have been slow.
I think it's -- the headcount in Asia is actually up.
The headcount in America is probably moving up.
They have some very strategic new hires that wouldn't be reflected in the numbers you've seen but are coming in now.
I think Asia -- I mean in Europe they've been very cautious.
I mean I think people that are engaged in the capital markets work in Europe are very worried right now.
And I think the results that we're seeing reflect the overall market concern.
And they have cut back especially over in Europe to reflect what they see is the necessary complement for the balance of the year.
Okay.
And do have the -- what was the turnover for the overall company? Yes the trailing -- the annualized number for 2011 is running right around 18% all-in.
That includes the special termination charges so that number runs a bit higher than what we consider are involuntary.
Sure okay.
And then just I guess Roger while you're there the tax rate lower than normal this quarter.
What are you assuming for the rest of the year? 36% for the quarters' the back half of the year is what we're assuming the tax rate will be.
And is that -- is the tax rate now at a new kind of lower level given the international expansion? Right.
I think for us as we can generate more profits offshore that allows us to drive our rate lower.
Also the mix of our rates in the various -- our earnings in the various states allow us to get maybe a slightly lower state rate in a perfect environment.
So that is a low for us and we look maintain that for the rest of the year and work to drive it a bit lower in the future.
Okay and one more if I could.
Jack you talked about your consultants and you guys believe you're close or at a bottom for the restructuring business.
I think there's been point in times where you might have thought your were close before I guess.
And is there anything that gives you more confidence? And I guess maybe if you could just elaborate more on -- I think you said monthly trends or something like that? One I just think the fact of the -- first of all I think that the size we are now I think we're starting to see utilization rates that are reflective of the level of the activity that we have that we're not having a lot of excess people.
I think the professionals in terms of staffing their jobs that kind of thing are feeling -- they kind of judge it by how much trouble they had getting people how many people they have free and they're sensing that they are reaching a point where they have people are pretty well-utilized.
And I think the investments that we've made in the transactions I think that ought to start to pay off dividends in the back half of the year.
So those are the kind of things that give me more comfort than they have in the last 2 or 3 quarters.
I guess also we have had a -- it's not dispositive but we've had some stabilization if not increase in our new matter of reports.
So those are all good signs for this business.
Next we'll go to Arnie Ursaner with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> There's been a pretty high-visibility international case in the news that would involve e-mail trails from both the U.K.
and North America.
You mentioned there are 4 players really capable of doing this type of the work.
Are you the guys that is winning that business? And how might it impact Tech group in the quarter.
Arnie number one is as you can imagine we can't talk about confidential engagements.
We certainly will be a company that will be considered for cases like that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I want to go back to your guidance which you reiterated versus what you had put out in May.
But subsequent to that you put out -- you took some cost-cutting reductions that were expected to have a $9 million benefit in the second half.
So conceptually if you're just reiterating guidance after hopefully getting a $9 million cost saving from actions you've taken was that known when you gave your guidance in Q2 or expected or is their some offsetting factor that's reducing your views by $9 million? The $9 million was the anticipated in Q2 and that was baked into the number.
Inc.</strong> So when you actually gave your Q2 guidance even though you haven't taken the actions you view was that it was built into it.
Right.
We were getting a pretty firm deal of where Corporate Finance was probably going to go to.
And the decline that we saw predominantly the bulk of the charge was related to Corporate Finance.
And that was driven by the declining demand curve that we saw.
It seems to be starting to flatten out as Jack said.
We also will spend a little bit of that money.
We will be reinvesting as I mentioned in the Transaction Support business.
So we are keeping a little bit.
It's not just straight adding on.
Hopefully as we blend it in and spread it it won't be that dramatic.
But we will spend a little bit of it.
Inc.</strong> And my final question relates to some cost issues in the back half of the year.
You had indicated you had expected about a $0.15 hit from investments for international service centers and CRM.
And you've also been talking about much more sizable branding expenditures in both Q2 and the back half of the year.
Can you freshen up where we stand on both of those cost items for the balance of the year? I think on the branding we've been spending pretty consistently on the integration of all of our brands.
To one I would say that would -- the experience that you see in the second quarter would probably be replicated in the third possibly a little higher in the fourth.
But not a dramatic run rate decrease Arnie.
I think on -- I'll let Roger since he's doing the service centers talk about those.
Well all of the service centers are now in place particularly the one in Hong Kong.
There will be -- you'll see a full run rate.
Q2 was a partial run rate you'll see a full run rate of amortization depreciation and personnel costs for that.
So I think you'll see a slight -- for those issues you'll see a slight build in Qs 3 and 4 from what you saw it in Q2.
Our SG&amp;A was up from last year but the bulk of that is related primarily to the LECG transaction the facilities we took on there and other LECG expense.
I think SG&amp;A as Dennis said will build still build into the back half a bit but we think not dramatically.
Inc.</strong> One more mechanical question.
You mentioned you had a onetime impact from some compensation expense in Strategic and Financial Communications.
What would the normalized margin have looked like in Q2 x-ing out that onetime expense? Yes.
I think we may be about 2 basis points higher -- 100 basis points I'm sorry higher.
Two percentage points.
And next we go to Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
I guess kind of first the question you alluded to in the press release about within the Tech Consulting group a sizable -- just getting the exact quote here.
Several large client assignments I guess I can guess at what maybe a few would be.
But historically in the third quarter we have seen a slowdown in Tech Consulting from time to time.
I'm just curious what kind of tail or legs do see to some of the activities on the first half there carrying into the back half? I think the client assignments they're referencing here I think that the present thinking is that they will extend into 2012.
How deeply into '12 we're not sure yet.
But certainly they'll impact Q1 and Q2 of next year.
You're right.
I mean we have a seasonal slowdown in the company in Q3 and I think that a lot of times that's simply driven by courts and banks not wanting to do very much in August.
And then while it doesn't impact tech specifically I'll just reiterate that the larger we become in Europe the more we will be affected by the fact that for the most part Europe doesn't do a awful lot of business in the month of August.
And there's nothing we can do to change that.
Even if our people are willing to work and not go on holiday if they don't have the cooperation of the clients and the intermediaries you're not going to get a lot done.
Though we would anticipate going forward Q3 will continue to be our slower quarter and it's really driven by August.
And you're right tech could be impacted by it because a lot of things they do revolve around production for courts and things like that which tend to slow down in the August.
Okay.
And then to the extent you can get this granular within FLC can you address how much are you seeing that's regulatory-driven as opposed to corporate litigation-driven? Just a feeling for mix there and which is stronger weaker momentum you've seen and if you can bucket it that way? Well I think included in regulatory would be things that are related to securities fraud and things like that.
I think the big difference that we're seeing now is the general litigation stuff is starting to rebound a little bit.
We've been -- one of the things that kept us strong during the time when some of our competitors were -- when the industry was down was the specialization that we have that was with the regulatory work we were doing on those major matters that are in the headlines everyday and it was our global risk practice.
So I think the big driver there is in the day-in day-out is the general commercial litigation.
And that's what we're starting to see a little bit of a rebound.
So I would say it's always numerically probably the bulk of it but it has been kind of flat.
Now its starting to grow a little bit.
And they've done a good job.
Remember they were the ones that really benefited 2 years ago from just landing the mega mega forensic investigations.
Madoff per example is probably running at half of the rate that it did last year so they've more than made up for several of the large assignments that have burnt off.
I think the other area that we're pleasantly surprised in is the demand for the forensic services and special investigations out in Asia has really start to pick up.
And I think that's a reflection of inbound capital movements back into those economies and the demand for the services that we provide in front of those capital flows.
So that has been clearly a change that we've seen in the last 4 months.
One more if I can sneak in.
Just an update I know it's been a while and so it's probably well-integrated.
But SMG with regard to the real estate practice within Corp Fin/Restructuring just any thoughts there.
Well I think it's still basically a year-over-year flat business.
I think that we see bursts of activity especially in a couple of the large metro markets.
But where SMG really provides value-added expertise is on the front end of large real estate transactions the structuring part.
And unfortunately it seems to be very busy one quarter and then it slows down for 2 quarters very busy 1 quarter.
We have not seen what I would call a capitulation in the real estate market so the cap rates haven't gotten so low where everything is flown in.
We are consolidating as part of the movements that we've made in our organizational structure.
We're consolidating a very prominent real estate practice that we have on the restructuring side led by Ron Greenspan in California or as with our SMG group in New York to try to get more scale and more power in the market by putting 2 extremely well-thought of groups together approaching real estate from a little different perspectives.
But we think together they'll have a better go-to-market opportunity than approaching it separately.
Going back to your question on the regulatory versus other.
It's a real back-of-the-envelope number but could make a case that about 40% of the segment's revenues are related to some kind of investigation that's regulatory-driven or regulatory-related something like that.
SCPA that would be all securities fraud that would be that kind of thing.
And next we'll go to David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> First one is an easy question.
And that is can you give just a little bit of color on sort of the variance or what was different between EPS at the time you gave the pre-announcement and when we reported.
Sort of what came out differently? Yes we got a new CFO.
We wanted to be very conservative.
LLC</strong> Are we saying the old CFO wasn't good? Well no I think he's sitting right to my left.
No I think in honestly David the reason -- if we were to have our druthers we would have liked to have waited and announced the special charge in conjunction with our real numbers.
I think because we decided for the sake of the morale of our people to get it all over with in one fell swoop and do it in the quarter.
We were required to make an announcement.
We didn't want to just make the announcement to you guys "Here's the charge and trust us.
In 4 weeks you'll hear the real numbers." So we tried to give you a range that we were highly confident of from the point of view of the revenues and a best guesstimate at a time when we really hadn't closed the books off.
The main variable as you can imagine is we ported over a lot of people in different parts of the world with different degrees of work in progress that we were trying to get our arms around and tools out and things in LECG.
It came out a little better than we had expected.
We had expected more of a negative impact on the earnings.
So I mean you could just turn around and do your math in your head.
You picked a couple of cents on the tax rate and that was driven by the fact that the earnings were stronger overseas than we had anticipated.
You picked up a couple of cents on LECG versus the anticipation of a $0.02 or is $0.03 drag.
So you go from $0.57 $0.58 which was our initial estimate you pick $0.02 on taxes and LECG flips to a $0.02 positive from a $0.03 negative and you're at $0.64.
So it wasn't a lot more than that.
And while I was being somewhat facetious about Roger we certainly weren't going to blame him for trying to be conservative given the first time -- sort of integration reporting of those numbers through our system.
LLC</strong> Okay got you.
And then looking at things a little bit more on business specifically.
Can you speak a little bit to the uptick both you and some competitors are seeing on the FLC side particularly from litigation? And I'd be interested to hear your take on what's driving that.
Are the pipelines now opening up or are folks just more comfortable all of a sudden spending? Well I think as we had mentioned that we did see a C change in the beginning of the year in terms of corporate legal departments having budgets for litigation matters and that kind of thing.
So I think we're starting to see some of the fruit of that.
I think also as you've seen in our particular case as you have seen more business being done investment banks and PE firms starting to put money out around the world.
Our investigation practice has been very very strong.
You've seen the growth that I mentioned that we had outside the United States.
And then I guess the trial thing is that we were talking earlier about whether the M&amp;A work that we were seeing in the Economic Consulting was a leading or a trailing indicator.
What you're seeing as a trailing indicator is the fact that all the litigation from the excesses of the credit markets and all have now come into fruition.
We are -- remember that 1/2 of our econ or so maybe 1/3 to 1/2 of it is what other people would have in their litigation.
So there's a lot of litigation active now following all the things on the collaterals mortgages and all that.
All of the litigation following.
So I think you're seeing everybody participating in that to some degree.
Our investigative side is up significantly not only in Asia as I've talk about David but also here in the States where companies are actually investigating various things.
So it hasn't matured in the potential civil litigation but some of these are internal issues some of these are FCPA issues especially driven over in Europe.
And some of the FLC work is special investigation as I said in front of flows of capital in Latin America and Asia.
LLC</strong> But I guess what I'm getting at at the heart of my question is really given the last couple of years and how quiet things have been do we think that some or much of this is sort of courts basically pushing things now through the calendar which would suggest that you'd have a pretty good pipeline there? Well it's clients.
I mean I think it's more of Jack answer.
I believe you have companies that have done a great job of cost control and have sat down and I guess sort of kept waiting for the tea leaves to be clear for them.
And now they're just not hesitating on moving forward on pent-up litigation.
David this is Roger.
Being I was in that business I can't help myself but want to talk about it.
Pretty much David what Dennis said is correct.
I think you have a few trends there.
So one you have the credit crisis litigation that is coming to fruition.
Two I think you're right.
I think what Jack said about budgets.
In the crisis we've found in a lot of litigation was discretionary in timing it could be deferred.
Some was not intellectual property some of those kinds of things are tough to defer.
But a lot of the core basic sort of business litigation could be deferred.
And I think it was deferred until the general counsels -- as budgets were loosened up a bit and that sort of started coming out this year.
And of course the question as you look forward as Jack mentioned in the commentary about the economy is will it stay or will the corporates pull back again? I mean right now the corporates seem to be reporting pretty good earnings and they have lots of cash so we're hopeful that they're not going to pull back.
But that would be the issue in their budgets.
LLC</strong> Got it okay.
And then just one other.
And I think there was a comment in there along the lines with regards to Corporate Finance/Restructuring that now we're sort of better positioned assuming for this economy so to speak.
I guess just curious if you can elaborate a little bit more than that as to essentially if the economy sort of stays as it is on a holding pattern where are we? Where do we expect the growth to come from? Well I think what we're seeing -- I think we expect just some sort of a reorientation of Corporate Financing.
I think if the economy stays the way it is right now.
I think you would get -- or right now we're experiencing about a $100 million run rate in round numbers globally on Corporate Finance.
We've seen that for a couple of quarters and our people sort of feel that that's a number that looks good for the next couple of quarters.
The composition of that number David is changing.
So one Asia's doing very well.
It's a different market.
And in Europe right now they've gotten a little busier.
And your prediction of Europe probably might be better than our prediction of Europe of what's going to happen over there but they've certainly gotten a little busier.
U.S.
restructuring continues to decline but it's offset by our more pro cyclical parts.
So healthcare is having a very good first 6 months.
Our process improvement work in our communications media and entertainment group is having a very good first 6 months.
And our transactional support group as Jack said we're really starting to beef that up because we see demand coming back into there.
I think it's somewhat a rearrangement of where the revenue flows come but what we're seeing now is I would call it an equilibration where the decline in U.S.
restructuring which has still been significant is being offset in the U.S.
by other opportunities Asia doing well Europe starting to pick up.
I would say Europe is a wild card to a certain extent by the end of the year.
But to our people it appears that the run rate we are in right now makes sense.
And that's the adjustment we made to align everything to that run rate.
And next we'll go to Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Great.
I wonder if you could give us a sense of what size run rate the Corporate Fin business is scaled for now as you think about annualized revenue given some of the actions you've taken.
Kevin I think what I was just trying to say to David is we were looking at sort of a rearrangement of the revenues that seems to be equilibrating at about $100 million per quarter revenue run rate.
We've experienced that in the last couple of quarters.
It appears that for the next couple of quarters that that's a run rate that makes some sense.
It will change.
In other words the restructuring business in the U.S.
given the economy stays the way it is and given you have election year to where you have a government motivated not to see a lot of defaults or a lot of bankruptcies we would anticipate restructuring to continue to decline.
But it's being offset by more pro cyclical activities inside of Corporate Finance like process improvement work in communications and media and our healthcare business.
Asia's doing well.
Europe is certainly picked up but again we don't know how much of that is a short term blip or whether we're looking at sustained trend given the endemic problems that we're all watching in Europe.
I would remind folks that I'm not sure the economy's is out of the woods yet.
And I'm not sure that as we get to the back half of the year and as we get -- certainly by the time after the election next year we're not just wiping out our bets that restructuring might have a pretty good period in the next couple of 18 months.
So we definitely want to save assets there because we are the best and the largest restructuring firm in the U.S.
Super.
And then as you think about kind of the mix there how much of it are kind of the large engagement versus smaller to medium sites today? In Corporate Finance? Yes and then just as we think about it...
I think the vast bulk of the large assignments have either burnt off or in final fee stage.
There are couple of larger assignments that we picked up but they are not at the magnitude of what we experienced in 2008 2009 and into 2010.
We have been successful in picking up more middle market work but as you can just simply look at default rates there had been very few defaults in larger end of the spectrum.
And so the Lehman Brothers the General Motors the things that we've worked on are winding down or have wound down.
Super.
And just if I could kind of the margin structure of that business should we assume kind of a 17% to 20% over the next couple of quarters? Is that a good way to think about it? Well I think the margin structure is clearly driven by the velocity of the decline.
It's hard to equilibrate margins when you have the velocity of the decline in revenues that we've experienced in Corporate Finance.
I mean all of our businesses can't turn on a dime.
They're too big.
This one can't turn on a dime.
But we would anticipate that margin solidifying and improving slightly.
It's not going to go back into the 30s until you have a frothy restructuring market where we again would get pricing power which we don't have right now.
Next we'll go to Jeffrey Rossetti with Janie Montgomery Scott.
I was wondering if you guys could give us maybe a further breakdown of what's happening in Europe.
From what point of view? Just geographically where you're placed and services that your offering...
I'll start off.
London is rapidly our largest operation.
I think it's #2 in total headcount.
It obviously has unique advantages sitting on the zero branch mean meridian and able to do business on an active business day in both Asia Europe and the Americas.
We have added substantially to our operation in France.
We have an extremely successful group in Strategic Communications over there.
We've added econ and international arbitration capabilities there.
And we anticipate that the combined groups will grow and do very well.
We had a start-up operation over the past couple of years that was growing and doing nicely in forensics.
In Spain we added to that restructuring in Spain and then we made a significant addition with Jorge Padilla's group that came over from the LECG in econ which it has a substantial presence in Madrid.
So clearly we are investing more in Madrid.
Our Moscow office is busy.
It has a lot of pent-up capital markets transaction work but right now the capital markets are being extremely selective in what they're letting out.
If those markets improve there's a high volume of business for us there.
And I think we continue to invest in Germany.
We are on a relative basis very small in Germany given the size of the consulting spend in Germany.
And you can anticipate that would be an area that we would be investing aggressively in over the next 3 years.
Okay.
So it sounds like I mean the risk is probably the Capital Market stuff in Spain.
Is that -- just trying to get a feel for...
Well it's not capital mandates that -- the capital markets are slow.
If you look at it from a macro point of view the drag on the European if there is any obviously their growth was fantastic as Jack said earlier.
The capital markets work specifically based on our communications groups in Europe is slow.
And that's not a function of our groups it's a function of the markets themselves.
Our backlog is probably larger than we've ever had for capital markets transactions.
It's just simply that the markets for all the reasons we're all staring out on our screen are very worried about other things.
Number one and approaching new capital transactions with a high degree of trepidation.
So I think that would be where -- if that worsens we could see a little bit of slow down.
If that picks up there's significant operating leverage for us if those markets pick up and return to any degree of normalcy that we've seen back at healthier periods.
I think a little bit our results in EMEA are masking what is otherwise a very bad situation over there in terms of the economy.
We're very lucky that we have specialized practices.
We're very fortunate that our Technology business there is one of the few that can handle some of the huge investigations that have now migrated being U.S.-centric to being global the same for our forensic litigation.
I think that the fact that we have the top bar none international arbitration practice in the world bodes very very well for London because as you can imagine because of the very reasons Dennis said that hub for that kind of thing it's stable legal system it gets it out in the hotspots of the world.
You can go there out of Asia out of the U.S.
out of South America.
But I think the economy there is very poor.
I think the business -- it's like the U.S.
without M&amp;A.
There has not been the vibrant practice of M&amp;A that there has been over here.
I think the banks there are much more cautious in terms of their ability to do transactions than we are.
So I think we're very fortunate to have the platform that we've built at FTI because we're getting much more than our fair share of business in EMEA right now.
So I think that hopefully as their situation improves and they correct their debt situation ha-ha that that economy will improve a little bit and we should do even better there especially as Dennis said and as you mentioned in the capital markets area.
Okay.
And then one just last one.
If maybe you could just talk a little bit about pricing and what you're seeing in the different groups and particularly e-Discovery.
I think on e-Discovery pricing has been balanced.
I think as we constantly say the cost of storage declines each year and your volume of materials to store and manage increases and that has not changed.
So we certainly have seen price stabilization on the Technology side.
I think as David said maybe it's because of the acquisitions maybe because some of the companies starting to dress themselves up to be acquired.
We've seen more price stability.
And then in the higher end of the market where some of our large assignments are it never has seen the degree of price sensitivity that you see in the middle of the market.
So I would say we've been witnessing price stability over the last trailing couple of quarters offset by the normal decline in storage cost but more than offset by a significant increase volume that we're storing.
And new product development.
Yes our technology.
I think our Acuity product has just been extremely well-received by the marketplace.
We think it has a chance to be a disruptive offering.
And we are extremely pleased with the uptake of the product its performance and the cost benefit that it's generating for the clients who are using it.
And as of right now that's not a price-sensitive product.
And we'll take our last question from Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
First could you talk about the impact of FX on the top line in the quarter both at the corporate level and if there's any segments that are materially different from that.
Yes.
FX had about a $6.5 million revenue impact positive impact to revenue.
It had no impact to EPS.
Predominantly in Strategic Communications.
Okay great.
And then looking just at the tech segment and looking at the incremental margin progression there.
How should we think about that going forward? Shouldn't this business have a higher incremental margin than somewhere in the kind of mid-30s? No.
Remember it's a hybrid business.
It is a mixture of consulting and technology but if we turn around and say "Your classic tech margins are much higher because at the end of the day it's either an on-demand service or media " you then have to blend that in with the consulting margin in the 20s.
And so you could do the math you're taking a tech margin blending it in with consulting margin in the 20s and you're coming up with mid-30s.
So I think if you look a lot of the SaaS -- I would say look at a lot of the SaaS companies Software-as-a-Service where they have more of a hybrid model and I think you seen most of them operate in the mid-30s to higher 30s which is where we're hanging around.
I think we've been pretty clear that our expectation of that business is to be in the mid-30s.
Yes.
I would say that's about a proxy.
Look at the SaaS companies and I think as you compare those margins to it we're sort of in line with those companies.
And that's all the time we have for questions today.
I'd like to turn it back over to Mr.
Jack Dunn for any additional or closing remarks.
All I'd like to say is again thank you all for joining us.
I know people are scheduled for chats with Roger so we look forward to speaking to all of you.
We would like feedback if you like this new format where we kind of cut down on the prepared remarks and leave much more time for Q&amp;A.
Thank you again.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank everyone for their participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mollie Hawkes of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's 2011 third-quarter results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we will take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that involves uncertainties and risks.
Forward-looking statements including statements concerning our plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to acquisitions or other matters business trends and other information that is not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by the forward-looking results investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading Risk Factors and forward-looking information in our most recent form 10-K and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you very much Mollie.
Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister the Chairman of our North American region.
In response to your positive feedback in our last call we like to follow the format of keeping the prepared remarks brief giving you a couple of takeaways that we feel might be potentially important to you and then leaving as much time as possible for questions and drilling down on the issues that are really important to you.
In the context of reviewing the results for the quarter I would ask you as always to keep in mind that the goal of FTI is to be the number one firm that people turn to worldwide for solutions to the jugular issues that affect their wealth their reputation and indeed their very lives.
Our strategy or if you will really our value proposition is to attract hire acquire develop and most importantly retain the best talent in the world to help clients identify those jugular issues devise value-added solutions and then deliver them locally as one firm through the last mile of execution in a timely effective thorough seamless and cost-efficient manner.
I think that this was a defining quarter in validating that strategy and achieving that goal and we'd like to give you a couple of things to think about in those terms.
The first is that it was truly an excellent quarter.
The company grew 20% as a whole with a robust 11% of that being organic.
Second our pro cyclical businesses again led the way with an aggregate 28% growth all increased 3 delivered exceptional results and 2 of them delivered record performances.
Third our activities outside North America continued to again be very very strong.
Finally in the quarter I believe many of the steps that we have taken over the last months quarters and years and some of you have been there with us came together to demonstrate the power of the platform we have built and the intellectual capital that we have brought together.
With regard to the quarter revenues rose 20% to a record $414 million the highest quarterly revenue in the history of the company and our third consecutive quarterly record.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.70 up 63% over earnings per share in the third quarter last year tying the all-time previous record for any quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was 18% of revenues 150 point basis -- excuse me 150 basis point improvement over the last sequential quarter demonstrating the assimilation of our new LECG professionals and the con-commitment ramp-up expenses associated with them into profitable performance.
With regard to our pro cyclical businesses as a whole they grew 28% and new organic growth for these businesses was a robust 18%.
The delta again represented mostly growth from the LECG transactions which at over $25 million are certainly exceeding our expectations.
Highlights in the pro cyclical businesses were 61% revenue growth in Economic Consulting to new record levels of which 30% was organic 33% growth in technology all of which was organic maintaining its status in the exclusive 30-30 club of businesses that produce both 30% growth and 30% adjusted EBITDA margins and 18% growth in Forensic and Litigation Consulting also to new record levels of which 9% was organic.
Despite again herculean headwinds strategic communications showed increased revenues at about 3% due to foreign exchange but the real story here is that it remained number one in the league tables and it did so globally as an international firm as a whole in Europe where the competition is intense and in Asia where it has the luxury of being -- not luxury but the hard-earned position as a dominant player.
With regard to our activities globally our revenue outside the U.S.
this quarter was 35% over the same quarter last year and represented 23% of our total activities.
Revenue in Europe and Middle East and Africa grew 27% compared to the prior year period.
Total revenues in Asia-Pacific grew 46% compared to last year 31% of which was organic revenue growth with Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Strategic Communications again leading the way.
Latin America's revenues grew 82% year-over-year 57% of which was organic.
Although as we said last time Latin America is still small relative to the rest of the company these results signify the dynamic market opportunities for FTI in the region as their quarterly results continued to follow a rapid growth trajectory.
We are particularly focusing on Brazil where we now have over 100 people and believe the confluence of natural resources Olympic Games infrastructure improvement and outside investment creates a dynamic and fertile market for all of our services.
With regard to our Corporate Finance and Restructuring business as we said last quarter we and more importantly so did the professionals in the business believe it is at or near its bottom.
Our actions in the prior sequential quarter to both position the business for new levels of core restructuring that we are currently experienced and in anticipation of different areas we expect to grow have contributed to an improvement in adjusted segment EBITDA margin of over 3 points compared to last year.
As always such improvements always start with leadership and we believe our new leaders there Bob Duffy and Kevin Lavin as well as experienced presence of Dom DiNapoli in the marketplace we're off to a great start.
It's a tribute to the professionals in this business that we continue to be selected for the matters that are of highest profile and most important so literally our economies such as MF global.
During the quarter we received and retired approximately 667 000 additional shares of our common stock in completion of the accelerated buyback transactions entered into March of this year.
This brings the total number of shares received under the transaction to approximately 5 733 000 and the average price was $36.52.
We currently have $120 million of unrestricted cash in the bank.
We have no borrowings on our $250 million revolving credit line.
Our operating cash flow in the quarter was $59.7 million and we collected $370 million during the quarter reflecting the new paradigm for our receivables that we discussed in some depth last quarter.
With that  I'd like to turn it over to Roger Carlile to talk about the 8-K that we filed this morning.
Roger? Thank you Jack.
Now the 8-K that we filed this morning related to an immaterial vision of the company's accounting to reflect the acceleration of noncash expense related to certain forgivable loans and share-based compensation awards granted to employee participants of our ICP program.
It's important to note that this provision has no effect on the value of the awards or the vesting terms and conditions of the awards nor does is impact the company's revenue cash or liquidity for any prior our future period.
Furthermore it's important to note that it does not impact our previously announced 2011 earnings guidance which we reaffirmed on August 4 2011.
Simply to make it simple what this is is for 2/3 of the awards we're not going to be amortizing that the noncash expense over a 5-year period rather a 6-year period.
Back to you Jack.
Okay thank you very much.
If I could take one minute and sum up what this quarter really means to FTI Consulting.
I think it's really that we came together in a number of things.
A number of the plans a number of expenses a number of the investments that we made over the last as I said months quarters and years came together.
In terms for example of our Economic Consulting group some of you tougher [ph] with me as we explained we were making significant bets in Europe and that those bets would pay off.
And I think today as you look over the international playing field or battlefield as it were of anti-trust competition with 60% growth in that segment you're seeing that payoff.
In our Corporate Finance/Restructuring group we took some painful steps there but at the same time we invested in areas like healthcare and communications media and entertainment and those bets paid off big in this quarter as those areas of specialization grew as did our investments in Europe and in Asia.
And I guess possibly technology I'm very proud that you all bore with us as we made extensive investments in our R&amp;D.
And in this quarter you saw the continuing trend where our technological solutions our Ringtail 8 now part of the acuity solutions really have -- you didn't hear us talk about the low-cost competitors and things like that because companies are now consolidating their efforts on their e-Discovery.
They're looking for tried-and-true solutions that can attack the highest cost element of that business which is the document review part.
We have technology solutions that handle that on a cost-effective basis.
We have the scale a global footprint and experience that are second to none though their results are no fluke they're the real thing.
Finally all of that is really a metaphor for what we started in January this year when we dedicated our firm to being one firm and harnessing really the power of one taking our 3 700 great people all over the world and having them operate under one brand.
I'm happy to say that as of November 1 we turned on our new website which was again the symbol of that but a lot of hard work went into that.
And as of this point we are operating around the globe under the banner of FTI Consulting.
So with that let's get to the most important part which will be your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First wanted to ask just trying to dig into the underlying sustainability your trends which look great but can you talk at all about success fees this quarter? I guess specifically in the Restructuring business and then just the I guess impact of any abnormally large cases? I know you don't specifically talk about the cases but was that a driver at all the performance or anything we should be aware of with regard to that? It's Dennis I'll try to take that up.
We didn't have any abnormal impact from success fees and specifically because I realize it's been filed and people are looking at it we did not book the success fee in General Motors if that's what you're looking at.
So we would anticipate that being booked upon court approval which I think they're estimating out to be at the end of this year.
We have been very fortunate as you can see from the press in some notable wins Kodak and MF Global obviously being 2 of them.
We just started work a couple of weeks ago on Kodak and on MF Global clearly it's a work in progress as we speak.
So those while they're very notable and clearly very important wins for us would not have had much an impact on CF.
So it was really more of what Jack said.
It was some of the areas we've invested in Asia is doing very well and continues to do well so trend is good.
We've clearly solidified we think a bottom for core restructuring and I think that they're starting to get on a broader basis business across the board which as you well know has offset some of sort of the burn off of the bigger cases Lehman Brothers and General Motors.
Research Division</strong> And then with regard to the M&amp;A environment obviously the Econ and Tech segments are doing very well but yet some of the macro data would tell you the -- especially large-company M&amp;As as very choppy right now.
Can you talk about what you're seeing and how to reconcile I guess the choppy macro data for M&amp;A with the results from you guys? We can't disagree with what you're seeing.
I think number one there's a lot of prospective M&amp;A and so I think you need to understand that we get retained by a lot of firms who are looking to make a deal and they're trying to figure out in all honesty whether the deal is sellable vis-a-vis either Brussels or Washington for the regulatory people.
Number 2 would be that there are big deals there.
There are big deals that have continued to go on.
We are in those deals.
It's not only M&amp;A that drives that but there are 2 other drivers.
One is just the overall competition area.
There are a lot of companies in the tech world right now that have a lot of competition issues with each other in different parts of the world.
So it's not just simply in the U.S.
a lot of it is actually in Asia and in Europe and we are right in the middle of many of those big cases.
Secondly our economists are their premier people in building these complex damage models globally for securities litigation mortgage-backed securities litigation and general financial litigation.
I think as you know and many of our investors know a lot of that litigation while filed 2 and 3 years ago was somewhat dormant waiting for the governments to sort of do their thing first and also to see in all honesty whether the plaintiffs were going to survive.
That's now heated up and these people are very busy in these large cases.
Again many of them are global many of them are in Europe many of them are actually in international arbitration and many of them are in classic U.S.
civil securities litigation.
So it will be the 3 drivers would certainly be M&amp;A and maybe we get a little different perspective than what the data in the marketplace would yield you.
Two would be just general competition issues they aren't related M&amp;A.
And then finally we are extremely busy in the high stakes financial litigation area.
When you talk to the people in Economic Consulting for example what they'll tell you is when you have an interesting situation like this with corporate coffers really full nobody investing in bricks and mortar that they do 2 things they acquire companies or they sue each other.
And that we really are in the midst of that.
Our competition policy people are not busy just on M&amp;A work but they're in a host of antitrust lawsuits at the moment.
And when you add to that mix kind of all of that corporate coffers taking place in an economic environment which is at best uncertain.
And you have activist regulators in the U.S.
certainly and you have protectionist regulators both regionally and nationally.
I think we're seeing stuff that we've never seen before and it's funny we've been a little contracyclical if I will to the normal M&amp;A trend back earlier a couple you probably in the last half or last year when there were small IPOs and there were some small M&amp;A activity going on people said why aren't you busier? Right now these are juggernauts that are going to war with each other and there's long time both in battling them and in planning them.
So we really see a quite dynamic pipeline of transactions there.
And fortunately some of the larger ones that we were successful in getting are just entering the stage now where they're coming to full.
Research Division</strong> My last question would be just I know you normally give guidance in the second and fourth quarter or after the second and fourth quarters and Roger you had said you had reaffirmed guidance on August 4 given these results it seems like you would almost certainly be at the high-end or may be above the old guidance range.
I mean can you -- are you willing to talk at all relative to that old guidance range? Or should we still be using that old guidance range or is it just not relevant anymore? No I think you should continue to use that guidance range.
I mean we clearly had a good quarter.
I think as Jack mentioned we're looking forward to a strong fourth quarter and a strong 2012.
We'll be preparing our 2012 guidance over the rest of this quarter and we'll deliver that in February as we normally do.
And our next question comes from Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you first talk about some of the trends you're seeing underlying the Technology business sustainability of those? I know in the past you talked about some big cases popping up some work and the results being a little volatile.
Could you talk a little bit about the sustainability of the success you're seeing there? It's David Bannister I'd be pleased to address that.
First of all you may have read earlier in the year that were selected in the magic quadrant for Gartner which was an important achievement for our technology folks.
It was a demonstration of not only the leadership position we have there but the belief under the part of Gartner that we have a -- demonstrated to commitment to the intellectual property underlying that and the technology basis of that.
One of the big things that really led that is the leading position we've really taken since we've been in that business of getting out in front of the ways to handle issues.
So for example we are now using artificial intelligence in a very profound way to review documents such that literally human eyes never have to hit the documents prior to production.
It needs a lot of acceptance in the courts and in the discovery process to be a significant change but we all believe that's where the industry is going.
We're a leader in that we're right in front of that and it's really important technology.
The second thing would be the acuity offering which is a combined offering not only of the technology but the associated services around that that really provides for the first time a seamless product from the beginning to the end of the process and allow our professionals to work closely with their clients in effectively and efficiently and in a cost-effective manner most importantly solving not only the search process but the discovery and production process which is really where the big costs are.
We think that about 5x the amount of a search cost are in a review function.
It's a big problem for corporations.
It's very expensive and we really think that we need to help work with our clients to attack that cost and we think we're doing that effectively.
We are the beneficiary of several large engagements in that segment.
That's the nature of the business that when something important happens around the world where major companies need to do work on something that they need to attack them in big and frankly a pretty expensive way.
So we do continue to benefit from large engagements there.
That's the nature of our business.
We would expect to have those sort of things in the future as well but that is a factor there.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly with the growing international exposures could you just walk us through what the impact of FX was on each segment? Yes.
I think primarily FX impacted our Strategic Communications segment.
I think as we said in the press release while the revenue was up about 3% if you took out foreign exchange they were essentially flat.
The rest of the changes are -- I think all of the major currencies that we trade in from year-over-year last year to this year were negative for us against the dollar.
But I'll have to find you the total adjustment in terms of dollars.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then could you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing? You mentioned some of these larger companies getting more active on the litigation front how does the pipeline feel today versus say 6 months ago? Well I think -- it's Dennis.
I think the pipeline was there 6 months ago.
It's just a matter of the maturity.
I think you had a lot of inertia in the pipeline.
So you had cases filed we were retained.
And I think what you're seeing now is just a lot more movement in the pipeline.
And therefore more activity for us.
And I think that you're running -- secure it depends.
I'm not going to give you a technical answer but at the end of the day you have statute limitations issues in these cases.
So you can't let them stay stale forever.
Securities related issues in jurisdictions especially the U.S.
have one of the shortest statute of limitations.
So what happens is you eventually have to see these things either go away settle or mature into very active cases and we're seeing a reluctance to settle because in all honesty a lot of these are jugular.
And so we're just starting to see a lot of activity.
So I would say it was always in the pipeline.
It was just more dormant and now they're really heated up in the last 2 quarters -- 2 to 3 quarters.
And to come back on that for the quarter FX added about $3.7 million of revenue.
And the bulk of that was in strategic communications.
And our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Back to the economic division obviously you had a great year.
Where can peak margins go? It's still a couple of hundred basis points under where it peaked in the previous cycle.
Can you get back to those levels with the LECG acquisition? Yes.
I think -- Paul it's Dennis.
I think that's obviously the goal.
The economics group one has great organic growth but it's also the main beneficiary in the bulk of the LECG professionals that came over.
And I think as we explained the way we did that deal in the beginning there were tails on comp programs and things like that that would not be necessarily amicable to our margin expectations but that was part of the process.
And as those burn off and the people are moving onto our comp systems and as Jack said in all honesty they're integrated.
I think a lot of -- we're talking about them because obviously you guys want to know about them but they're part of FTI.
A lot of the business being generated is being generated by some of their cohorts from -- who are old FTI.
And so I think we're seeing the margin improve faster than we thought.
So and that's mainly -- it's not so much that the burn off is faster than we thought it's the new business that they're working on is coming in faster.
I think the LECG professionals Roger represented about $26.7 million in revenue for the quarter which is clearly higher than our expectations.
But again a lot of that is new business being generated.
So that's sort of a long-winded way of saying yes we expect some margin improvement from there.
But remember the comp model in general and the Economics group yields below 20s EBITDA margin.
That is the nature of the industry in the beast.
And I think we're looking for them to return back to that level but that is not the same model we see in some of our other operations which would give you a mid-20s to higher 20s margin.
Research Division</strong> And just to go back to the guidance and not to harp on it but even at the high end of the range it's only implying $364 million of revs for the fourth quarter.
That's significantly down Q-on-Q.
It just doesn't seem like that's a reasonable expectation.
Any commentary on that? I think as we've shown in the past and we show now we will be through the top end of the guidance range on revenue.
I think we just don't see a reason to focus on the fourth quarter when it's basically halfway over.
We're targeting to 2012 and we'll give our guidance on that early next year.
And we'll go next to Scott Schneeberger with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on that last question.
Well I guess the answer clarified it for me with regard to above or within the revenue guidance range.
And then success fees were asked earlier.
But I guess where my question will lie is you talked before about corporate fin and restructuring run rate of above $100 million now and $110 million was strong in the quarter.
Should we be thinking up at that level or is $100 million more reasonable and just some more color around that? Well I think they had the benefit of a large job in the quarter which we can't talk about.
But I would say it's clearly $100 million.
We feel pretty comfortable with especially with some of the recent wins.
And Scott it's going to be a lot dependent on how some of these recent wins including some we can't even talk about pan out.
And in some cases some of these things can be fixed in 90 to 120 days.
So that maybe might be a lot of intense work but not a good long-term trend.
In other cases it's going to take a lot longer.
So I think for modeling you're safe at $100 million.
We're not saying we think we can't do better than $100 million.
We're saying we certainly feel we've found a floor.
Research Division</strong> Switching up over to Technology now.
Acuity seems like it's doing very well.
Could you address kind of what percent of the segment that's become? Or just what I guess to the extent you can get into it what you envision that becoming in the coming year or 2 as far as size and prospects? Well we don't breakout product or offering sales for a wide variety of reasons.
So we wouldn't do that.
Look we're very pleased with Acuity.
We can tell you it is running ahead of the expectations we had for what is really its first full year of use.
If you remember we introduced it a little after Legal Tech last year.
I think the most pleasant things is that it's being used in some of these largest engagements and so you have the eyeballs of almost a vast majority of the large legal community practitioners on both sides of these cases and everything.
So it's getting a great viewing and I think the most exacting thing is we've been able to take this one client as David said a much more rapidly away from sort of the high touch into the high-tech aspects of Acuity.
And so I think we're very pleased with it it's running ahead of plan it is benefiting from the right set of eyeballs on it but I wouldn't want to speculate on what percentage it's going to be.
And from Sidoti we'll go next to David Gold.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One I wanted to focus a little bit more around strength during the quarter in restructuring.
I know the last question was $100 million of floor.
But I was curious if two things one if you can give a little bit more -- shed some more color on the areas that you spoke about in the release as to where you were seeing strength.
And then 2 if you can give a sense for -- there's been a lot of chatter out there with Lehman coming to an end.
And I guess I remember from a bunch of years ago as some of the bigger cases subside usually that creates a lot of work for you.
If you can give a sense for let's say over the next period or 2 if we might even see a step up there just because there's so much work to be done to get to the finish line? Well I think number one in core restructuring as we said we're the beneficiaries some significant wins some which you're reading about hearing about some which we can't talk about.
And so that's just sort of market activity and we've done well as far as bringing those in.
We are busy in our communications entertainment profit and process improvement areas and were extremely busy in Asia and getting busier in Europe.
So where Europe David would have had say a slower first quarter maybe even in halfway in the second quarter.
It really started heating up towards the latter part of the second quarter and it had an excellent third quarter.
And Asia has just continued to outperform plan over the year.
So I'd say the drivers are clearly -- we've had some pleasant wins in core restructuring and the 2 geographies look extremely good.
The Healthcare business is doing very well and I think everybody in general has spoken that they see a lot of activity in Healthcare we're seeing that as well.
It's clearly an area we will be investing heavily in in the future in broadening because we see the macro drivers that everybody else does.
Lehman is not that big of a contributor in these numbers right now.
So you're right in has wound down.
We don't anticipate at least the latest that I've heard a lot of sort of end of engagement activity.
There will be a success fee filed for -- if it hasn't been filed for already.
And we would anticipate as most professionals do getting that fee.
There is the possibility of some follow-on work in Lehman going forward but it would be in a much lower rate than we experienced.
David -- it's a David Bannister Dave Gold.
The other thing that we have noticed and we don't want to bang the clacks on this yet.
But for the first time in about 9 quarters we saw an increase in what we call the distressed debt ratio in the quarter.
So while the default rates and so would have been hovering about 2% for high-yield bond issues and so forth.
So really almost all-time low.
We did see a tick up in that ratio in the quarter which may be a bit of a forecast of a return to normalcy there with normal default ratios were at 4%.
And obviously if Europe and so forth continues to cause problems with the banks and liquidity that could go back up again as well.
So it's the first time we've seen that tick up for I think 8 quarters.
We mentioned the new leadership and it's not just Bob and Kevin it's the whole team there in Corporate Finance.
And one of the things that they have put a renewed effort into are more -- a better game plan is I think is on getting company side assignments and that's something we're just beginning to see the fruit of.
And those typically as you know from the experience watching the Wall Street Journal articles and on Lehman and New York Times and everything else that's a lot of solid work.
So as you see a Lehman paid off and that was a better assignment you might see us pick up some creditor work that would be -- excuse me might have seen us pick up where Lehman was creditor you might see us pick debtor work where we can make up the difference there -- more than make up the difference.
It's the heavy lifting.
Dave just to amplify one thing.
Dave Bannister made a very good point.
it's something you ought to look at.
If you look at -- there seems to be a 24-month or less correlation between spikes in what you would call distressed debt ergo trading over a 10% yield to maturity and obviously defaulting debt.
And the spike that we're seeing is pretty pronounced and if you go back and look at those mountain graphs which a lot of the services the correlation is almost 1:1 with about a 24 minus X lag.
So if that's the trend then we would expect to see that group just get busier globally because we just expect to see more defaults.
So it is a very good there is an indicator of potential business for core restructuring that's probably the best proxy.
LLC</strong> And then just one other from a higher level.
On the litigation side where you have -- really strong work impressed to see the pickup there and it's been pretty consistent.
But I guess I'm looking for signs of sustainability.
I'd be curious to your sense of how much of the pickup or -- drives some new cases versus cases that basically are now being pushed for whatever reason whether judges want to clear calendars or folks are feeling more comfortable and ready to actually spend again? Well I think it's predominantly new cases from the point of view of our billing.
It doesn't mean we're involved in the conversations with them in the past or hadn't been retained.
I think -- I don't think it's the judges pushing the calendars as much as the plaintiffs and the defendants having to engage more actively.
I think one good proxy is I think that group has probably turned over 8 to 9 out of its top 10 cases from last year.
So they replaced most of those big cases and even one as big Madoff is probably running significantly below our billing experience last year and even much below where it was a year before.
So they've done an excellent job while the numbers the raw numbers themselves are extremely good.
They've done an excellent job when you factor in that they've turned over probably 9 out of their 10 top cases of last year with Madoff still continuing but running significantly less than it did the prior year.
And we'll go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could describe the expected cost benefits of the one brand strategy? And just curious I know there's probably a lot of internal things you were doing in that process whether you might see the cessation of those activities be a stimulant to growth.
It's a good question.
I'll take the first shot.
I mean we didn't do it for cost savings number one.
I think that I'm sure there's efficiencies when your marketing one brand rather than others but I think we did it Toby for revenue generation purposes.
So if the model is spend the same amount of money or maybe a little bit more just do it a lot more smartly than the quid pro quo has to be we need to see it on the bottom line through revenue generation.
I think that's clearly on a global basis it was a no-brainer.
It's the only way to go and I think even as we got down into the micro levels where we have strong local branding I think the people realize that while there may be some bumps in the road long term it was the right thing to do.
So I don't see it as a cost savings.
I see it as a revenue generator.
Jack? I think we prefer to see some redirection.
So for example as you probably pointed out in the first year you have things like a brand-new website that you have to develop and you have things like changing everything as simple from stationary and changing the signage to the things that you do to get people behind the effort and those went very very well.
So I'd like to be some of those dollars redirected to outside.
But we have a tremendous opportunity here now especially as we have the kind of growth you've seen outside the U.S.
where we're not known to be able to have that brand stand for something that'll really help turn our people into able to be better at marketing and sales and that kind of thing.
So we're looking forward to seeing those dollars as a percentage of revenue not to really try to save on that for a while anyway.
We've got some pretty big competitors now and we need to stand toe to toe with them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Technology business I was wondering if you give us your sense as to how fast the market is growing and what that contribution is to your organic revenue growth versus what you might see as market share gains given the consolidation you described? Market is still growing rapidly.
David you might have a better macro sense to that.
According to Gartner the way they define the market it's growing around 9% to 11% a year it's always tough to get a clean definition on it.
The conflicting issues you have there is you do have cost of storage and so forth coming down a bit where you have overall demand growing because of the proliferation of form factors and just the raw numbers of documents that are created in our society.
But they would peg it around 9% to 11%.
We clearly think we're at growing market share.
During the last 2 quarters you saw some consolidation going on in the industry with a number of smaller companies getting picked up by some larger companies which we actually think is very healthy for the market and for us.
It helps rationalize competition it helps standardize how people think about the products we think it gives a better pricing umbrella.
I mean someone like Symantec is not going to wanting to give away product where a venture-backed company might give away to try and get market share.
So we actually view all that as being very positive.
But there is a winnowing down to the bigger players now and that should be good for us.
We believe we're the biggest player we believe we're the best player we believe we're the most profitable player.
And we think all those things and we believe we have the best expenditure in R&amp;D and so forth.
Reaching a stage where some of the process are becoming more standardize and the buyers are becoming very smart.
They want a player that can handle their stuff all over the place not just the flavor du jour and I think that if you talk to our people in the business that really is a positive sign for us because we've always whether it's been through the intellectual capital side with the Sedona Conference or whether it's working with the judges we've always been there as the people that help write the RFPs for how you're going to this in a way that's trusted by the legal system.
So I think as I say I don't want to declare a victory or spike the ball on the 5-yard line but there's a real different kind of spirit there about some of the smaller competitors with either consolidation or with going out of businesses that we're down to real business now for big companies where we'll make a legitimate business transaction with them as a business partner.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow up there is that 9% to 11% number that you gave David is that domestic or global? Global.
But the bulk of that market is domestic at this point in time.
It is growing in Europe.
We've had some good success particularly in Continental Europe but also in London.
But the market is predominantly in the U.S.
now.
I don't know this number but I would guess it's probably 80% to 90% in the U.S.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you kind of a broad question about the way you're managing the business and see whether you're seeing some evolution into either a geographic management or kind of industry vertical and just kind of wondering whether the current segment reporting is undergoing an evolution process? Without a doubt as you could see from our prior announcements we have set up 4 large regional profit centers and those are North America EMEA Asia Pac and Latin America and Latin America includes Mexico.
Without a doubt our feeling is the segments drive our product development our strategy and our quality.
You have to have a go-to-market strategy that's locally based and you have to be collaborative with the other groups.
Our clients abroad are not as used to buying straight services that maybe a mature clientele is here in the U.S.
They really want answers and solutions to their problems.
And so therefore it's a different go-to-market strategy.
And it's our belief Toby that it's enhanced by regionalism.
I think without a doubt on a virtual basis you're seeing more industry domain again go-to-market strategy develop.
I think healthcare is now across all of our segments and they meet as if they are an industry group.
They pursue opportunities together no matter what segment they're in.
Real estate clearly same thing.
We touch in the real estate world in a wide variety of our segments and yet they all cooperate very closely in their go-to-market strategy and where they're going.
So the answer to your question is geography is a major thrust for us and the industry is moving quickly.
Yes.
We've just added to the executive committee a person to head up our exploration and hopefully our capitalization on an industry initiative.
We have tremendous depth and knowledge in things like healthcare insurance in construction in financial institutions in communications media and entertainment energy not only in the U.S.
but globally.
We really have as we like to say that cadre of intellectual capital.
And we need to if you talk to our young people we spent some time doing a deep dive on this and we really will be focusing on industry organization because I think in today's world people really want -- they want expertise domain expertise on what they're doing.
So you will see that as a major focus and more to come on that.
On the last part of your question regarding segments and financial disclosures my guess is over the course of the next year or 2 you will see enhanced disclosure around geography and some enhanced disclosure on industry.
We're not prepared to abandon the current reporting model at this point in time.
We think it has served us well and defines the business pretty well but I think you can look for us to have more disclosure around those things going forward.
It's still the way we manage the business but the data points as we gather them and now that we can keep score a different way I think we'll do our best to make that clear to you so you can see trends in our different markets as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last question for me.
Any changes to incentive compensation to further encourage cooperation and cross-selling initiatives within the firm? Well one of the big things we did when we created the regions the geographic regions and added that group of people to our executive committee was we now have an executive committee incentive compensation plan that's consistent for all of those members.
It's tied to the total firm results so that drives they're looking at the firm and collaborating and we're looking at other techniques that have been recommended by our people ways to build their collaboration reward and recognize that collaboration for cross-selling and working across geographies industries and segments.
Toby it's a good question and I'd say it's probably one of our most satisfying things to watch from the top of this year and this is a classic bottoms up build from starting with our younger people who want to collaborate and want to work and team and are less concerned necessarily about what particular segment they're in.
The cross-selling the cross-collaboration the handing off of one group to another with the idea of we're doing a better job for the client clearly has picked up enormously in last trailing 4 quarters and it's really starting to pay off.
Our next question comes from Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit about sort what your visibility in the pipeline looks like heading into 2012? I know obviously it's a little early to give any kind of guidance but color on that would be helpful.
I'll start.
I think a lot of this will -- I'm going to caveat it with everything everybody caveats assuming the economy continues to act the way it is I think the big drivers we expect to continue we don't see them backing off and that's just complex litigation.
We think you're going to see more and more governmental invasion not less in business.
So ergo you're going to see more and more competition issues more and more business for economists in those areas.
We think the management of strategic information in the digital age is core to risk management and we see that as a major driver for our Technology group among some of the minor drivers of investigations deals things like that.
I think we clearly would love to see a more robust capital marketplace.
It's not there right now you guys know that better than we do.
It eventually has to come back.
We're in a great position to benefit from that but I'm not sure we'd be modeling that necessarily next year.
But that would have significant upside for us if that was there.
And then again we don't want to be gloom and doom but I would refer you to that relationship between distressed debt and default rates because it's a very interesting study of a graphic relationship.
And if that's there we'll get busier globally in Corporate Finance we're not -- we wouldn't pretend to be a rating agency but we did have our corporate finance leadership with us yesterday and they would suggest that they would expect to see more downgrades than upgrades in the high yield areas over the coming months.
The underlying quality of credit to ratios and tightness of to covenants and so forth are pretty severe relative to norm.
So we'd expect more downgrades.
If part of the theme of the call was to thank you for bearing with us on some of the investments we've made we've made some pretty big investments in the financial services area with looking at our bank practice.
We've made some significant investments in the insurance area.
Made some -- continue to make significant investments in South America as we mentioned in terms of looking at some of the economies there that are either at full throttle or about to be throttled.
So I think we believe and our people believe at this point that we have a platform for growth next year.
As you know particularly a pipeline business we -- a lot of it comes to us on the fly but if there's the activity that we think will be reflected in Asia and Latin America and if what we're seeing here on the regulatory front stays true.
And sometimes that tends to get a little softer right around election time.
But I think our people are bullish on having the right practices right now that will attract the business that we think on a macro basis is going to be there next year.
So we're entering the fourth quarter next year at this point there.
And volition obviously we're right in the heat of our budgeting process where people have to put their thoughts on the line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just moving on maybe you could just give us a little color on the pricing side of things.
What are you expecting from maybe potential price increases that could be passed through and maybe could just talk about the different segments including technology? Joe it's Roger Carlile.
As Jack said we're just -- we're into our budgeting.
So we're meeting with our teams and we're starting to see that.
But generally speaking the business FLC they're seeing farm pricing and some amount of upward pricing as we look forward.
You heard David speak about technology and what continues to happen there in terms of volumes and pricing and while that process has slowed a bit in the last 2 quarters I mean you still face that issue I think technically as you look forward.
Economic Consulting I think is one of the business because of all the factors that Jack and Dennis spoke about earlier they continue to be in high demand.
They continue to have pricing power we think as they look forward.
And I think Corporate Finance/Restructuring depends a lot on what happens as Dennis and Dave mentioned in terms of what happens with future flows.
I mean those businesses -- no doubt that business has had some downward price pressures as it's moved down in sort of the middle market cases.
But if some of the larger us that we're reading about continue to happen there's the opportunity I think for pricing to far more move up there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The one last question on my part.
It sounded like your response to the idea or the question that M&amp;A has sort of slowed down rapidly was that -- look some of the cases that you're involved in are fairly large and should have a tail to them so that a quarterly shift in M&amp;A doesn't necessarily have a major impact.
Is that the proper take away there? I just want to make sure that we...
No I'm the one that said that I didn't want to mislead you.
In the M&amp;A side those can be some the shortest time period cases we have just by their nature because obviously if you're successful quickly in getting a deal through it tends to run about 120 days time period as I said.
In some instances we retain much earlier to do analytics and build market models to even see if the deals get through but they tend to have a shorter fuse.
Now some of them as you're well aware are being contested and we're in those and those at least on the surface don't appear to have a quick solution attached to them but they could.
You never know if somebody has a change of heart.
I mean there's a lot of money involved.
So I'm not sure some of our clients would have a change of heart but the regulatory agencies as a Jack said sometimes get a little more understanding in an election year and look for a little less controversy.
So you could always see something get approved faster.
You could always see objections get ameliorated or go away.
So you could have some lumpiness in that because there are some big deals but on the other hand it's becoming a much bigger practice than it was 5 or 6 years ago.
So I would hope some of that lumpiness gets smoothed out just by the law of large numbers.
Research Division</strong> So just to close up the argument.
So in the past when there's been a dropoff in M&amp;A how have the numbers hold up and yield is that how we should think about it going forward? I think when M&amp;A drops off I think what happens you see a flattening of it to maybe a slight quarterly decline.
But then oftentimes as I said M&amp;A represents really just one of a 3-legged stool there and the other 2 legs if anything are more robust than the M&amp;A assignments and that's the complex financial litigation and just the general governmental-driven competition issues.
M&amp;A is also -- can be a significant factor in our Strategic Communications business.
The nature of that M&amp;A that they get involved with is pretty slow now in fact I would call it very slow because that they would benefit more from volume that there'll be a lot of activity going on and contention.
And that's really what's not going to -- economics practices is really what Dennis has been addressing and their ability to continue to do well in large cases notwithstanding the fact that volumes are relatively low there.
We do think that those -- the backlog or pipeline in that looks pretty good at least from what we can see for the balance of the year.
And we do think that we have a market position there that would suggest that if something important is going on they were likely to be involved.
Certainly a pickup in volume there would help would help that business even more.
And when we look at corporate cash positions domestically and around the globe and we look at the need for companies to demonstrate some growth it's certainly understandable that they're a bit skittish now looking over the horizons trying to figure what's going on.
But people will get back in the deal business sooner or later.
And we don't see Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley firing their whole M&amp;A department they all expect to have some business.
I think the sentiment here is that there are probably more things in a state of flux right now that would be good for us than would be bad.
If you think about for example the Chinese using their capital as a way to extend their influence in Europe and in the United States.
Perhaps that's going to be a wealth of business as they get vetted for acquisitions all around the world.
Just as it has been a very big piece of business for us in Australia where we have really been part of the process of both investments into China but especially their attempts to invest outside of China in natural resources.
So you think about that.
You think about the outcome or the ripple effect from the global debt sovereign debt scenario with the bonds in Greece.
We've already obviously seen what that can mean on a selective basis.
That will increase not decrease.
You have the issue where there have been the Shell company acquisitions and the use of new Imprimatur in Hong Kong and other places for Chinese accounting firms as opposed to big 4 global accounting firms.
There's a bunch of stuff that as I say if you just tested the consumer sentiment if you would here at FTI people are relatively bullish about their businesses as opposed to where they were in 2010.
So that's kind of -- we trade in terms of our outlook in the marketplace which is much sentiment because after all most of our practices tend to thrive when there's some kind of lack of confidence or there's an issue.
So that's the best I can sum it up for you.
We think that there a lot of things on the line that could probably all contribute to a pretty good year for us next year.
And our next question comes from Arnie Ursaner with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on the CF&amp;R segment you mentioned I don't know 6 or 8 questioners ago that you had a pretty large job in the quarter.
Was it 1/4 or 1/3 of the revenue was it that magnitude of large? No no no Arnie it wouldn't have been anywhere near that but it was just a significant job that pretty much started in the quarter and ended in the quarter.
Nothing of that magnitude.
Maybe approaching 10% but I'm not even sure it was that much.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And what sort of impact might it have had on margin in that segment? It wouldn't have been enough to move it that dramatic -- it helped but it wouldn't have been enough to move it to dramatically.
I would dare say none.
I think it was just a normal job.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
You've spent quite a bit this year on what some would call atypical corporate spend things like branding and systems.
Can you quantify now that we're well 3 quarters into the year what you have spent and how should we think about this number on a go-forward basis for next year? Arnie it's Roger Carlile.
I think probably some of that spend I would say is actually less atypical is becoming typical for growing global organization.
So as Jack mentioned earlier in the question related to brand while we've done a lot of things that are onetime expense oriented such as signage and converting things like our webpage and those things we think we're going to continue to invest in that brand and maintaining that and growing it around the world.
So I'm not sure that at least in 2012 I would consider that atypical.
With respect to the IT for example building our platforms in Asia and EMEA and those places again those are sort of step function platform builds that give us the capability to grow there much more quickly and support that properly and that'll come back to margin in the future as the revenue then grows against that base because it's a step function you don't have to add that cost.
But it's not on atypical spend it's really typical of a growing global organization.
Arnie.
I think Roger parsed it the right way I think if you look at our run rate of revenues right now obviously you're at a $1.6-plus billion dollar business and our spend for marketing and brand building as a percentage of that is actually very very acceptable.
Some people could argue maybe it should expand.
I think where you'll see operating leverage come in is where we'll have to build these support groups globally and especially we just finished the one in Asia.
So once it's absorbed once you get a little more maturity there then I would agree that that spend rate should slow down.
On the other hand the growth rates out there are somewhat surprising and what happens is your step function there the next step may not have the life you normally would have with the infrastructure you're putting out there it may be a lot shorter and you may have to invest faster but that should be driven by business.
And if the business isn't there you wouldn't make the investment.
Clearly right now what we're seeing is the business is there and in a lot of these countries there has been so much capital that has flushed in and continues to do.
It's just hard for their infrastructure to manage it efficiently and therefore they need people like us to help them do it and I think that's one of the main drivers of why you're seeing so much growth out of South America or Latin America and Asia.
So I think you'd see the operating leverage on the infrastructure support investments.
I don't necessarily see a slowdown in our brand spend because the percentage sort of feels right for building a global a multibillion dollar global company.
Our corporate spend is about 5% of revenue now Arnie.
A couple of years ago it was 7% 7.2% to 7.3%.
So we actually have gotten some efficiencies out of spreading these costs over a much larger revenue base.
But I think at a 5% spend rate that's not an unacceptable number for us.
Inc.</strong> So in theory if your revenues grow nicely next year we actually might see an increase in corporate spend? On a dollar to dollar basis yes.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
My final question relates and maybe this is the wrong forum to attempt to answer this but can you comment on your incremental margin on higher utilization? Clearly in the summer quarter you had exceptionally high utilization in areas that typically were normally impacted by vacation schedules.
How should we think about ongoing or future utilization rates and the incremental margin you might generate from those? Hi Arnie.
It's Roger Carlile again.
As you can imagine and by the way you asked that question it's a more complex answer than we can probably cover in this.
Because it depends on the incremental utilization is in a compressed time period what are the realization rates on the projects and those types of things.
The general simple answer is of course increased utilization for a given set of people adds incrementally to the margin at a very high level.
But then you have to get to really understand that you have to dig in to the particular projects what the realization was did you have to add staff was it a compressed period of time that you're doing the work versus over a longer period of time.
I want to just clarify one thing.
We are by no means do we mean to imply that we'll have a rolling marketing budget that says we'll take 5% of whatever we get and put it in.
We're mostly from Missouri on this.
I mean we grew up in firms that where you had 6 000 partners and things like that.
You looked at expenditures very tough and one of the things we scrutinize in each segment had helped scrutinize and certainly each geographic leader does is advertising budget.
So we really fine tune it we try to make it as targeted as we can.
And if we would exceed our targets next year that doesn't mean we'd automatically raise that budget and we put the budget that we have for next year will be put together as part of the budgeting process and we strictly adhere to.
So we treat it as we understand what it is and we try to the treat it accordingly.
Inc.</strong> I'd like to go back to that margin question.
You had almost an 800 basis point improvement in Corporate Finance/Restructuring margin in the quarter as you got to 75% utilization.
What I'm trying to get a feel for is going back to the original question was it more onetime in nature or is this more of a sustainable level? You were 20% in Q1 17% in Q2 and then you jumped 25.7% in Q3.
Arnie I'll start and maybe David may pick up.
Don't forget that in the second quarter we have a special charge.
We took actions and the greatest number of those actions were going to have positive savings impacts to Corporate Finance.
I mean -- I think first of all that was a structural issue and that is an ongoing issue.
I mean with those savings are there and we'll continue there as we discussed at that time.
So I think you may be a little bit hard when you're looking just at the third quarter just to aggregate the impact of that plus the impact of the fact that our utilization was better than it has historically been in that month.
And David? Arnie make no mistake.
The margin in the second quarter was not acceptable to us.
It was not one that we experienced before.
It was not one that we're happy with.
It's not one that we're going to continue.
If you go back and look at the Corporate Finance margins in the 2005 2006 2007 period when volumes were relatively light.
You had a pretty robust economy.
You had margins in that segment in the 25% to 28% kind of range.
We think we ought to try and manage that business even in challenging demand environments to have acceptable margins and 15% 16% is not unacceptable.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Dunn I'll turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
It's been great.
Again thanks everyone for being on the call.
And I assume unless I hear otherwise and nobody is ever shy about letting me know the format where we keep our prepared remarks to a minimum and emphasize the questions and answers is what you would like to do.
And again thank you and we'll talk to you at the end of the fourth quarter.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Daniel Slottje of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting Conference Call to discuss the company's fourth quarter 2011 results as reported yesterday.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we will take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that involve uncertainties and risks.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to acquisitions or other matters business trends and other information that is not historical including statements regarding estimates of future financial results.
For discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued yesterday a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as to the date of this earnings call.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release we issued yesterday.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer.
Jack please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening to everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Executive – or excuse me our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister the Chairman of our North America region.
Today I'd like to continue our format of giving you 3 or 4 bullet points that we think are significant and then turn it over to your questions.
This morning however if nothing more than a tribute to the people who produced them I'd like to take a few minutes to talk about our results for 2011.
Let me begin with a brief overview of our fourth quarter results which I think validate the strategic imperatives we implemented at the beginning of 2011.
For the quarter the company grew 10%.
Our pro cyclical businesses again led the way with an aggregate of 15% growth driven by continued strength in Economic Consulting Technology and Forensic and Litigation Consulting.
Our activities outside North America continued to be very very strong.
Looking at fiscal 2011 I believe many of the steps that we have taken over the last months quarters and year came together to demonstrate the power of the platform that we have built and the intellectual capital that we have brought together.
Adjusted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.93 up 79% over earnings per share in the fourth quarter last year.
And before the revaluation gain which Roger will discuss in a moment we were $0.70 up 34.6% over last year.
Adjusted EBITDA was 20.7% of revenues a 210-basis-point improvement over the same quarter last year demonstrating the assimilation over the year of our new LECG professionals and the ramp up of expenses associated with their transition and was also a great job of leadership in Corporate Finance/Restructuring where margins improved almost 3.5%.
With regard to our pro cyclical businesses as a whole they grew 15% and the organic growth for these businesses was 7%.
The delta again represented mostly growth from the LECG transactions which represented $23.3 million during the quarter.
Highlights in the pro cyclical businesses include 39% revenue growth in Economic Consulting of which 11% was organic; 12% growth in Technology all of which was organic; and 11% growth in Forensic and Litigation Consulting of which 4% was organic.
In Economic Consulting strength in M&amp;A in our financial economics practice continued from the third quarter with Antitrust and M&amp;A matters up 65% and 36% year-over-year respectively.
Looking to 2012 we believe our financial economic practice will continue to experience high utilization rates and increase client opportunities.
We also expect to continue to book a meaningful number of strategic consulting assignments.
Technology benefited from a meaningful uptick in M&amp;A work which grew 154% compared to the same quarter last year and we continued to see strong momentum associated with our Acuity platform.
During the quarter we launched Acuity in the U.K.
and assembled a new corporate sales organization to pursue opportunities for this great new product.
We're looking especially at the corporate market.
Top line growth in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment was driven by continued strength in our U.S.
construction and environmental solutions practices with revenues increasing 22% compared to the fourth quarter last year in those areas.
Geographically the Technology segment saw a significant revenue expansion in Brazil Argentina and Colombia during the quarter.
The Asia Pacific region had another strong quarter with revenue up almost 100% year-over-year and this growth was led by our BRIC practice which is our integrity and investigations practice and our construction and our core practices in the regions.
Revenues in EMEA were up 5% year-over-year with growth primarily driven out of France.
Revenue in the Strategic Communications business slipped 1% year-over-year although higher retainer business was noticed but this was unfortunately overcome or offset a little bit by a non-meaningful thing which was a decrease in our reimbursable expense work which doesn't really have any profit associated with.
So overall that's a very positive development.
Despite the Eurozone crisis our Strategic Communications division remained #1 in M&amp;A volume in the latest European M&amp;A lead tables.
In North America Strategic Communications experienced improvement in cyclical transactions and restructuring projects despite the weak capital markets activity.
Growth was led by our energy healthcare and financial services practices.
Strategic Communications had another strong year in Asia Pacific led by strength in Australia.
In Latin America Strategic Communications experienced success in Colombia and continued to invest in Brazil in anticipation of the economic activity there associated with the World Cup and the Olympics.
Revenues in our Corporate Finance and Restructuring segment were $108 million for the quarter.
Over the last 3 quarters we have stated that we expect this segment to have a run rate between $100 million and $110 million with the midpoint of $105 million and success fees being something that moves it around that midpoint.
In the fourth quarter we were right where we expected to be.
During the quarter we saw improved margins and marquee client wins on the company side such as MF Global NewPage Dynegy and Hostess.
We also saw improvements in our healthcare practice; increased contributions from our European tax group which was acquired along with the other practices from LECG; and strength in our industry practices especially consumer durables and apparel materials and telecommunications.
In short the fourth quarter capped what was for FTI Consulting a spectacular year.
For the year revenues increased 12% of which 5.2% was organic and 6.8% resulted from acquisitions.
Adjusted earnings per share before the revaluation gain increased 11.3%.
Growth rates of our operations in Latin America Asia and EMEA were a robust 60.7% 74.8% and 24.6% respectively.
In 2011 24.5% of our business resided outside the U.S.
compared to 21.6% last year.
Cash generation was strong at $173.8 million even after $28 million was used in the LECG transactions and was capped by our best cash flow quarter ever at year's end.
Total shareholder return was 13.8%.
We completed our accelerated stock buyback which in total saw us repurchasing 12.4 million shares at an average price of $40.43.
We acquired and integrated the significant business operations from LECG and completed the rebranding of 29 brands into 1 major brand and 2 sub-brands.
This combined with the restructuring of our management systems on a global basis has greatly enhanced our ability to deliver our services worldwide with seamless worldwide cost-effective and has enhanced our ability to collaborate and provide total solutions to our clients.
Results were driven by continued solid execution of our strategic initiatives.
Strong performance in our pro cyclical businesses and the cross segment and cross-border opportunities generated by our new management scheme across our entire geographic footprint drove our top line growth.
For the year Economic Consulting Technology and Forensic and Litigation Consulting grew revenues at rates of 38.4% 23.8% and 12.5% respectively.
Turning to fiscal 2012 outlook.
Based on current market conditions the company estimate that revenues for the year will be between $1.6 billion and $1.72 billion and diluted earnings per share will be between $2.80 and $3.
As always this is organic growth and does not include acquisitions or share repurchases.
Margins are expected to improve as investments in key personnel materialize again partially offset by our continuing investments in our infrastructure to support safe future growth in international markets.
2012 clearly will be another volatile year in the global markets.
Our event-driven business thrives in this type of environment as these conditions bring about more financial restructurings privatizations debt for equity swaps corporate transitions and litigation activity.
In 2011 we saw consolidation within our industry with a number of smaller companies being acquired by larger companies which we think is very healthy for the market and for us.
We expect this consolidation to continue for both structural and strategic reasons.
It helps rationalize competition and it helps standardize how people think about our products.
We also think it gives us a better pricing environment.
Our successful acquisition of LECG in 2011 demonstrated our strong capabilities in that area.
So in conclusion the 3 bullet points I would like to leave with you as you consider 2012 are the following: first no matter what happens we are extremely well positioned whether it is a hiring opportunity an extremely complicated acquisition such as LECG a relatively simple but larger one involving a company our own debt as it comes due I believe in terms of reputation financial strength geographic footprint and human capital.
If not unique we are certainly not unnoticed as being in an excellent position to be a participant and a partner of choice.
Second and somewhat related is our stability given the world's uncertainty.
From a financial position first we generate cash in fact $3.28 of free cash this year even after the LECG acquisition.
We have a strong balance sheet plenty of cash total availability on our line and a cadre of investment bankers who tell us we are a prime prospect for raising additional capital at any time if a particular project warrants.
Also our track record of not only attracting but retaining great professionals who all make it possible is second to none.
Third our geographical footprint.
This allows us not only a competitive advantage in servicing clients but also access to the various markets around the globe as capital migrates.
There are many other factors that provide the secret sauce that helps fuel the effectiveness of the platform outlined above: our innovation not just the fabulous products coming out of our technology R&amp;D but new practices in areas like insurance and healthcare; our religious adherence to only gold standard people and only gold standard practices; our momentum as the place to be; and our ability after 30 acquisitions to be pretty darn good at pricing them completing them and integrating them.
So with that as you can tell we look forward very optimistically to 2012.
And with that before your questions I'd like to turn it over to Roger to talk about the revaluation gain.
Roger? Thanks Jack.
The revaluation gain is a very technical accounting entry which all companies face now results from the new accounting standards for contingent consideration which arises from acquisitions which are often referred to as earn-outs.
Basically at the time of an acquisition we are required to record a liability which is the estimate of future payments under those earn-out agreements.
Any subsequent changes to those estimates and the resulting liability are then recorded in operating income.
While our FS Asia acquisition has performed very well in fact Asia was up 72% in the quarter as Jack mentioned we now estimate that we will pay $10 million less on a net present value basis for future earn-out payments less than we originally estimated due to the finite life of the earn-out and the earnings expectation of certain sub-practices.
So we wanted to clearly call this item out because of its nature we believe the better number to focus on for the quarter in terms of earnings is $0.70 per share removing the 23% -- or $0.23 revaluation gain from this result.
Jack? Thank you.
And with that we'd like to -- unless Dennis or David you have something we'll turn it over to questions.
No.
Okay.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to first ask you about I guess some of the I guess what I call litigation-related business in general so the Econ Forensics and e-Discovery.
They put up nice year-over-year growth rates still but they weren't quite as strong as we saw during the middle of the year and they were down sequentially.
Was there anything in terms of the timing of projects or your indication activity that caused that to happen? Or I guess how do you look at the performance of this quarter relative to I guess the last few and what you were expecting at least? Yes Tim it's Dennis.
I don't -- I mean we're happy with the performance this quarter.
I think number one there is significantly fewer billing days just so mathematics works against you third quarter to fourth quarter.
We had more -- a lot more billing days at the end of fourth quarter.
And I think to a certain extent because of still a pretty shaky economy you didn't see a lot of people flee either for the beach or for the south of France in Europe.
They were working in August.
So I think we probably had a stronger fourth quarter than normal because of that.
And we had fewer days -- I'm sorry stronger third quarter.
We had fewer days in the fourth quarter.
So you probably need to average it out a little bit.
Secondly as to litigation and disputes you do run into a December holiday situation where a lot of judges will slow things down coming into the holidays.
And that could be anything from discovery and work or preparation to actual trials where they'll suspend it through the holiday or they'll delay starting it until January.
So I think we're happy with where they are.
I think especially on the Econ side in that area they have never been busier since they've been with us.
And it actually gives me -- your question gives me an opportunity while we welcome all new professionals that join us I would like to especially welcome Dr.
Brad Cornell and his entire group that came over at the beginning of the year.
Dr.
Cornell is one of the foremost acknowledged experts in complex financial securities litigation.
He has hit the ground running with us.
We anticipate that he will be a great producer for us and a great asset to an already world-class intellectual team that they have.
So welcome Brad and all your people.
Yes.
Also I'd note that when we went over the statistics a little bit the number of new cases and as part of the budgeting process Roger and David and I and Dennis always sit down with the leaders.
I think we actually picked up a number of cases in the fourth quarter that generally at that time of year don't start hot but they were also the cases that look like especially between perhaps FLC and Technology there might be some good collaborative opportunities there.
So we're pretty optimistic about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just in FLC the revenue being down – or I'm sorry the headcount being down a little sequentially was that just turnover I guess? And I guess more importantly how is I guess probably across the business the voluntary turnover rates trending? Yes we didn't see a great change in -- Roger why don't you do the statistics or the -- and then I'll embellish a little bit? Okay.
Yes I think if you look at the tables FLC had 852 at the end of the quarter and this year and had 806 last year.
So I'm not sure Tim I show a headcount reduction.
Research Division</strong> Well it was down -- I'm talking sequentially.
It was down about 20 sequentially.
So I mean it's not a big change but it's...
Yes.
I think that's not -- I mean that's just normal activity that occurs in the business from time to time.
There's nothing unique happening there.
We don't tend to hire a lot of people Tim in the fourth quarter as people at other companies would tend to hang around to get their bonuses paid.
And so if we just have the normal runoff and then don't have a lot of new hires that will be a fairly common phenomena.
We are looking for increased headcount in 2012 in that segment.
Yes we have a couple of -- we always look at the statistics 2 ways.
There's the delta about how many more or less but we also look -- the significant amount of work as I mentioned in the FLC has been their transition from a generic damages-type firm to now very specialized.
We picked up a couple folks that we'll be announcing in the New Year that we're trading in a lot of places to look at those specialties like insurance like intellectual property like the BRIC practice and things like that.
So I wouldn't pay scrupulous attention as again David is the champion of -- unfortunately headcount times utilization is becoming less of a measure of our business as we go to fix these and as we go to a lot of projects and especially the bigger projects.
So I wouldn't read too much into that number.
Tim one other answer to your question and again if you go back at $1.6 billion sort of revenue run rate and you take the weekends out and calculate what we're billing per day on sort of an average workday it's around a $6 million number.
And so if you start subtracting workdays out of a quarter you can easily get the different numbers vis-à-vis your prior quarters sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my last question would just be you guys have always been an acquisitive company and part of the industry consolidation but I may be wrong.
But it seemed like that you were stressing that a little bit more even than I probably would have thought in the last year or 2 here.
So are you seeing something out there in terms of the acquisition opportunity or the way the industry is developing that makes you think you'll be able to -- or you're more optimistic about doing some more consolidation I guess in 2012? Yes the answer to the question is yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you elaborate on what you're seeing I guess that makes you think that way? Well I think what we're seeing is it is difficult to create sort of a global channel distribution if you don't have one.
And yet your clients tend to drive you -- their problems don't stop at our shores.
Your clients tend to have problems that drive you to go offshore or you have to partner or they go get some else.
And I think while it's been expensive for us from a point of view of some margin penalty we have clearly established scale and it's growing rapidly in a lot of these areas.
That makes us a very attractive potential partner for people that are facing the daunting task of trying to do that.
And you can take -- when people have extremely good offerings that might be limited by geography but where there's a market for them abroad it's a lot easier.
It has a lot more operating leverage if they could affiliate merge or be bought by someone like us and then start to distribute those offerings across an already profitable platform.
I don't know Tim whether it's -- that you have a lot of companies that clearly were very introspective because they had to come through the recession.
And it was a traumatic time for obviously everybody.
But I think as people are coming out of the recession to a certain extent and looking forward and trying to plot out the next 5 years of their life I think it is hard to escape the global dynamics of the market the demand curve that we see for these types of services in the developing or newly developed world as well as just simply the scale the operating leverage and scale that you get once you pass over your positive cash flow contribution from offices.
So I think people are looking hard at it.
They're trying to decide they can do it they're trying to decide what kind of path and future to give their people.
I think young people today really are global in their outlook.
They want to work on global problems.
They want to be transferred and have global postings.
They want to broaden themselves through different cultural exchanges.
And I think clearly if you look at some of the studies which I know you know intimately because I know you're on top of a lot of it you realize a lot of the pundits at least say you're going to evolve with some large global players who clearly have brought offerings and can address the client issues globally or you're going to see people in much more boutique-y high domain industry-driven very little real estate and they're brought in for their expertise.
Tim it's Dave.
We are persuaded and the evidence would be that our 10 largest engagements last year involved at least 3 of our business units that there is true benefit in the solutions approach we're taking to our clients' problems.
We believe increasingly the folks who we would seek to have join us as our partners also understand that dynamic.
And we think there's tremendous benefit for our clients but also for the profitability and success of our firm and the people who join us in that approach.
And next we'll hear from Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you guys talk a little bit when you're looking within the outlook how you think about your growth expectations on a segment basis? I think Dan typically we don't give guidance on a segment basis.
So we give commentary around where -- as we just did where we performed and how we think we look forward by segment.
In terms of actual guidance by segment we don't do that.
Yes.
I think Dan I think the one thing we would probably say is we've now seen 4 quarters in Corporate Finance which is predominantly restructuring of numbers that are averaging between $100 million and $110 million per quarter.
Now they're doing it differently.
Healthcare is up.
Some of our European operations are up stronger.
U.S.
is still impacted by obviously a slowdown and that although they have had significant wins lately.
So I'd say one prognostication is we are feeling we've hit sort of the new normal there.
And we clearly would feel that at a minimum they ought to be able to track those numbers and you wouldn't see the significant decline that you see as a cyclical.
Correction comes in and you move from a restructuring environment more to a healthier economy environment.
And I think we're cautiously optimistic that the momentum that we have will continue.
But as Roger said we've decided it's better to guide for the whole company rather than each segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then when you mentioned the margin expansion on the base just to clear up is that on a basis includes or excludes the revaluation gain? That would exclude...
What I talked about in Corporate Finance is it doesn't include the revaluation gain.
That's looking -- and the press release I think makes it -- spells it out clear.
I think -- so it does not include that.
That's apples-to-apples last year.
Yes Dan you'd have 2 key elements that should contribute to it.
Number one we will lap the LECG acquisition at the end of the first quarter and that was a pretty traumatic acquisition it's dramatically outperforming our expectations.
And the margin improvement there is faster than we anticipated.
It is now fully integrated so in a way it's sort of hard to compare apples-to-oranges.
But it's doing very very well.
And the margin has moved up faster.
And so we would anticipate once we lap that that again you just have sort of a normal operation there and not the margin drag.
Number two is we spent a lot of money in our brand integration.
It was a big success.
It came off pretty much without a hitch.
Our people deserve a lot of credit for it at corporate and down in the bowels.
But we wouldn't be spending that kind of money.
It doesn't mean we won't be spending significant money in brand but we wouldn't be doing it in the integration the same way.
So I would say you might see a leveling out of general corporate spend and then we would just get a natural addition from the LECG operation normalizing.
Research Division</strong> And last one for me just on the Technology segment if can you give us an update on the pricing dynamics in the industry and also if that's any different as you move the Acuity product into the U.K.
It's Dave Bannister.
I would say the pricing dynamic is more stable than it has been in the past.
We would continue to expect to see in core services that are denominated as things such as posting that over time those -- under Moore's Law those costs and therefore the associated revenue will continue to come down.
The consulting side of the business is very stable and in fact reasonably strong in terms of the pricing environment as our experts are valued in the marketplace.
The Acuity product offering on a blended basis probably has a slightly lower margin than some of the other businesses as it does encompass the review process.
And the review process because it does have some eyeballs on screens and some people aspects to it had slightly lower margins.
On the other hand it's a segment of the market which heretofore we had not addressed.
And it is by far the largest segment of the market.
We believe it may be 4 to 6x as large as the markets we've addressed in the past.
So while the margins may be slightly lower in that business the scale of that market would suggest a great opportunity.
And next we'll hear from Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Just a couple of thoughts in terms -- new normal on the corporate fin side on the revenue any sense of a range of margins as we think about that business on a go-forward basis? I think the margins we're operating in right now are probably what we should expect.
I think clearly that operation is becoming more and more of a fixed fee with some degree of success type of operation.
I think one our healthcare business is growing fairly rapidly that tends to be the model in the industry.
And then secondly I think we're doing more and more debtor-side work rather than creditor-side work where we're in a healthy economy and helping people trying to avoid possibly filing.
And so  again you tend to get more of fixed fee and then -- but I would think these margins that we're sitting in now x the gain would be margins we would sustain.
The 27.1% margin in the quarter would be reasonably consistent with the sorts of margin this business produced in the 2006 2007 period when you add a healthy economy and a reasonably more bond [ph] restructuring market.
So I think there's evidence in the past that these are reasonable margins.
Super.
And then just can you remind us kind of round numbers your percentages of the verticals across Corporate Finance/Restructuring right now? What percentage is healthcare versus other end markets? It's Roger Carlile again.
We typically don't break down that segment into its sub-practices for guidance or reporting.
Okay.
And then just real quick Jack you talked about potentially raising capital at some point.
How do you think about that in terms of debt versus equity? Any thoughts on that? Our standard model is the -- we like to see a transaction where we have a mixture of the stock and the -- talking about a nonpublic company for example we have -- where we have a mixture of stock and cash for the company.
We typically don't buy things that aren't cash flow positive themselves and help us look at the project.
And then traditionally we use the earn-out although given the anomaly of the revaluation questions whether how -- the earn-out did exactly what it was supposed to do.
We had an uncertain portion of the head value so we put it all in the future.
And it turned out that it worked perfectly.
So I would think that we would look at -- we've looked at multiples of 10 or so times EBITDA on the high side.
And so I would think that we would look to -- we think -- we aren't all that anxious to use our equity at the current price.
So I think we would look at being able to use a combination of the equity and debt.
Yes we have a convert that's due in July.
And clearly we're sitting here with almost $300 million in cash in round numbers.
So we would retire the principal of that convert with cash.
And we have the option of paying the premium in either stock or cash and we'll make that decision as it comes in.
It would be fair to say that our debt has traded extremely well over the years in the market.
And it would be a very popular offering if we went out to either replace at least the principal side of the convert and maybe even lengthen our maturities.
I mean I think if the markets stay the way they are they're very attractive to us if we have to finance a deal or just simply to roll over some of these debt.
Next we'll go to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us some color on your hiring expectations for 2012 and what you expect pricing to be like? Yes it's Roger Carlile.
I think generally speaking expect for the Technology business which is less tied to headcount and/or a business for this year such as Forensic and Litigation Consulting which has capacity some capacity you would generally expect our headcount growth to be in line with our revenue guidance.
So I think the midpoint of the guidance is around 6%.
So I think you'd expect headcount growth to be around 6%.
Yes.
It's Dave Bannister.
I'll make a couple of other comments.
We are clearly and echoing something Jack has said in the past on this call we are clearly always in the market for outstanding professionals particularly experts who bring unusual or unique expertise to the business.
And so we would for all of those of you listening we would be -- welcome your calls.
We've had great success over the years of adding people opportunistically.
Dennis mentioned earlier in the call Brad Cornell and a number of people who joined us recently truly a world-class economist who will bring a substantial business with him.
So I would -- notwithstanding what the guidance suggests or what have you we will look aggressively for people.
As it relates to pricing for 2012 I would say we have modest expectations.
We think it's a pretty stable environment we're working in and don't expect significant pricing increases or significant pricing decreases really in any of our businesses.
Dennis I don't know if you have a different thought.
No I think pricing and professional services groups right now unless it's under an absolute crisis clearly is not giving you the type of pricing power that you might normally see in either a down market or a really big robust market.
But there will be price increases.
Clearly there are in some of the areas where we're seeing extremely high demand in economics and -- but I think the headcount growth will also be driven by the growth we're experiencing in Asia and Latin America.
As you can see from the numbers the incremental growth down there is while it's coming off a smaller basis we're getting scale into these businesses.
Now our run rate in Asia at the end of the year was over $100 million.
Our run rate depending on how we count and give credit down in Latin America was in the $60 millions to $70 millions.
And that's up dramatically.
And we are aggressively hiring in some of those markets.
And we're trying to get ahead of what we see as demand.
I mean I think Brazil is a fantastic economy get the velocity of capital that's being injected into it from everything in the extraction industries to maturing servicing and middle-class as well as what Jack said earlier this massive infrastructure build that they're having for the World Cup and the Olympics I mean you're going to have mistakes there.
And it can't be done that efficiently.
And we want to be prepared to assist them in fixing and restructuring some of those mistakes.
So we are aggressively hiring in that area down there and are doing the same in Asia.
So you might see it a little unbalanced where you might see maybe hiring might reflect more the economy in Europe up in the U.S.
and significantly up in the rest of the world.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Roger in terms of the guidance for revenue 6% at around the midpoint is there any carryover impact in 2012 from the LECG hires? Yes.
We'll have a full year so that would add 1 more quarter because they joined at the beginning of the second quarter.
And that's roughly about $25 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question.
In terms of your EBITDA margin you've got some revenue organic growth going now.
And what are the levers that you have to move towards your target of 22% 22.5% EBITDA margin outside of just kind of better utilization broadly within the firm? Well I think -- it's Dennis.
I think my -- that's obviously a question we ask ourselves constantly.
There's a bunch of things that we decided to do.
One because we have the opportunity to attract some unique talent but where we had to give them time to build practices and penetration especially in FLC we have a number of new initiatives.
And we're starting to see some payoff and some we're still targeting the payoff to be in the coming year.
As that develops I mean right now a lot of those people were carried as just an extra cost.
So that pulled your margin down.
You just call them in a business development mode.
But I mean 1 example for example is we felt about 3 years ago that our experience in Madoff and Stratford and Dryer and what was happening with the relationship between funds and institutional investors was going to demand a new type of reporting from the institutional investor community from the funds they invest in.
And we have been correct in that and we brought significant resources in to address that on a marketing basis who were very wired into that institutional investor community.
We're now seeing the benefits of that.
We're now seeing work being generated globally from very large institutional investors in the area of transparency in the areas of complex investigations and due diligence in front of investments and in the areas to be blunt of compliance.
So that took a while to get together; that would not have had much of a contribution last year.
But the size and the magnitude of contracts that we're signing with some of these large institutional investors is giving us good feelings that that initiative will pay off significantly.
We have an initiative at the highest end in the banking community in the living wills and then helping banks sort through the reaction of Graham/Dodd.
We have brought an A-Team in to do that.
We have numerous opportunities and we would hope that some of those will generate significant business again this year.
So I think one of the major opportunities is just that simply we made a bunch of investments.
And we expect those investments have now had enough time to age in the marketplace to where they'll start paying dividends to us.
And some may not.
I mean we're not perfect in which case we certainly aren't afraid to try to redirect the resources elsewhere.
Roger anything else? Yes.
I think that's absolute correct on the investments.
In terms of the core drivers for revenue it's really price utilization and leverage would be drivers.
And for price I think you heard David say that it's flattish to up a little is sort of the current market.
For that to change and to change margins you need velocity in that market you need clients and the demand to be stronger than what it has been recently; that'll drive some price increases.
And that would balance off against the salary costs and those types of things.
And then leverage the size of jobs the types of jobs the number of staff you have from a junior level to a more senior level also drives margins.
So I think as demand continues to firm for some of these areas some of these business you would expect to see margins improve as a result of those issues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask 1 last question.
Could I get your brief comments on any influence you're seeing from the talk of splitting auditing and consulting services in Europe? Yes I'll start.
I mean it's -- obviously it's something we are following.
Jack and I were in Davos and we actually spoke to the heads of a couple of the Big 4 some of whom are our clients on this issue.
And I think there's a consensus that things will happen over there.
I think there's a consensus that you may see tighter restrictions on what the firms can do for their own existing audit clients.
So looking more like a Sarbanes-Oxley type of restriction focusing more on what you can't do and conflicts and the percentage of consulting fees you can get from an audit client rather than a divestiture of the consulting.
I think clearly there will be changes.
No one really knows it but I would say that at least at that forum the prevalence was -- probably look a lot more like what the accounting firms went through here.
We have a number of recruiting conversations going on that I would say have been aided and fueled by the confusion that's being caused by this.
The specialty practitioners who reside in the Big 4 in Europe are concerned that they could face the same phenomena folks faced here as a variety of either regulatory initiatives or auditor rotation initiatives or other things cause an operating environment that makes it more difficult for them to conduct their craft.
We don't know if or when those things will happen.
But clearly the people working in those businesses in the things that are analogous to the things we do are concerned and are interested in finding a home where they can serve clients well and not have to worry about those confusions.
And next we'll hear from Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question here is maybe you can help me reconcile the fact that we're seeing bankruptcies continue to decline and we're seeing the corporate default rate sort of stay at a very low rate versus the waffle in the economy towards last year and some of the larger engagements that you may be involved with kind of restructuring practice.
How do we balance those 2 things? And how should we think about those in 2012? Well I think going back -- it's Dennis again.
I think going back to what David said before I mean even the frothy period of '06 '07 '05 I mean you had secular issues and you had geographic issues.
That is the same right now.
There are certain parts of the economy where the companies are still under more stress on a relative basis than they were.
I think -- so you -- while you have the balance of certainly dirt-cheap debt a lot of liquidity you also have stronger bank balance sheets that kick the can down the road.
And eventually you're going to address that.
In Europe there's about $700 billion where the structured finance sitting on the books of about 5 banks.
And they've moved maturity dates.
It's covenant-light paper but it's not very marketable.
And that has to get addressed.
I mean I think it'll be addressed sensibly by them.
They're much more comfortable doing debt-for-equity swaps than the U.S.
banks.
But it's somewhat masked by the sovereign debt issues that you see.
So I think what you're going to see is -- I mean I think you're not going to see a change in the liquidity structure in election year here in the U.S.
So I would guess you're not going to see except on a secular basis any kind of significant pickup in defaults in the U.S.
There is the potential for significant pickup in defaults in Europe.
From what we're seeing in Spain for example some of the large companies may benefit from the kick the can down the road because they're with the biggest of the big banks.
But the midsized companies we think are under duress.
They can't borrow.
They're with the smaller banks who have balance sheet issues.
And so you may see a pickup in demand there.
Asia I think again Asia is a little bit like the Brazilian story.
It's just the velocity of capital.
You can't thread the needle perfectly on every deal and you generate issues that need to be addressed.
So I think maybe it's more secular maybe it's more geographic.
We're not looking short of a significant change in the macro environment for a very robust year.
On the other hand we feel that we have probably corrected out at a new higher floor and it won't be a drag on the earnings this year.
I might add that in terms of Europe we're looking to add capacity there.
I think we have a couple things happening.
As Dennis said you have $700 billion or so of acquisition-type related debt coming due this year.
You double that for 2013.
You have the euro crisis you have no appetite for lending at all.
And you have this -- the kind of the wildcard in there is the Basel Accords which require the banks to up their capital ratios by -- in 2013.
So it's going to be a very very tight market there.
I think we -- I think there's going to be a number of debt-for-equity swaps restructurings all that.
I would be a heavy better on restructuring in -- as a potential in 2012 and as a real growth vehicle in 2013.
I think that's really something.
This is not a commercial but our folks in Europe put together a stunningly good white paper on the euro crisis.
And if anybody wants to send us an e-mail or whatever I highly recommend.
And she looks at who's positioned to take advantage of investment in low prices in Europe who's going to be a beneficiary who's in trouble it goes into detail about this phenomenon of the amount of leverage debt that's out there versus the crisis coming for the banks.
So I highly recommend it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean I guess the net result I know you talked about this $100 million $110 million restructuring level.
That's probably the standard across the year and then maybe potential upsides coming from some of the larger engagements that you closed in '11.
Is that the best way to think about it? That's just what I'm sort of going for [indiscernible].
Yes the only thing I'd add to that is the -- if you look at the wildcards out there there's more opportunity than there is risk I believe.
You have petroleum plus political upheavals in the Mid-East which typically for transportation companies and leisure companies and things like that is usually not a good sign.
We're seeing the price of fuel skyrocket.
You have the political situation in the U.S.
and the election for some reason is always a damper on activity here I guess because people don't focus on until – and this time there's more uncertainty I guess about tax policy and things like that than ever.
And then you have the Europe situation.
So depending on how those things unfold I don't know about people on the call but I didn't breathe a huge sigh of relief last week over the Greek debt accord.
So I think there are more things that would argue for potentially a better year for Corporate Finance than for anything that would be below this current floor that we anticipate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just my next question we've seen M&amp;A activity trail off towards the end of last year.
How should we think about that and some of the cases that are taking place in the Technology segment and some of the drivers for Economics going forward? I think our retentions are very strong.
So again oftentimes we get retained early to try to analyze the potential legal ramifications around an acquisition.
And they may not come to pass.
But the retentions are very strong and our people are very busy here in Europe.
I think the one driver we should remember is you guys follow a lot of companies and your companies follow even more.
I mean a lot of the growth that we're seeing in earnings is because of operating leverage and cost savings not because of intrinsic organic growth.
Yet the companies are sitting with more cash than they ever have.
There's threats of taxes on repatriation of money.
And I think you're seeing at least for the first time in a while where the U.S.
dollar has a little bit of a currency arbitrage.
So I think you're going to still see companies trying to put that cash to work especially if they have some arbitrage and especially if they have statutorily locked-up capital in different parts of the world to where the tax structure could change on them.
And it's better for them to use it and buy producing assets in that part of the world.
So I think we're seeing very good retentions.
How many of those mature into announced deals I think remains to be seen.
But our guys are very busy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last quick one.
You talked about July and the convert.
What's built into guidance as far as that's concerned for 2012? Yes it's Roger.
Right now what's built into the guidance is the assumption that we will issue the premium in shares.
That's not a huge difference because the way it's accounted for there's already in the 2011 fully weighted share count about 850 000 shares and the current estimates would be about 1.2 million shares if we did that -- if we took that action.
Maybe a few other quickly items just for modeling purposes.
I think if you think about SG&amp;A think of it as being on a percentage of revenue relatively consistent with '11 and '10 in that range.
Amortization of intangibles relatively consistent to last year down maybe just slightly but insignificantly.
And interest expense barring some kind of acquisitions that would create additional financings and assuming that we were in a business that [ph] pay off the converts with cash you would see interest expense be down a bit from last year.
And I think you can assume weighted average shares around 43.1 million at this time.
Tax rate of 36.5%.
And next we'll go to Arnie Ursaner with CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> What onetime success fees for Lehman and General Motors were -- did you have in the quarter? We had a success fee of approximately $5 million on General Motors in the quarter we have not collected the Lehman Brothers success fee yet.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And that is embedded in your guidance? Yes.
I mean we would expect success fees Arnie for 2012 to mimic about what they were in 2011 though it is in the guidance.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then you -- I think much earlier in the call you mentioned you had completed your rebranding and had made I don't know the exact wording you -- regarding the ERP you had basically [indiscernible] the majority of the spending.
But then later in the call I think you indicated you expect to continue the growth in spending for corporate items.
Can you quantify the total of those 2 actions you took in 2011 and why it shouldn't be coming down in 2012? Well I think what I was trying to say is I think the corporate spend rate will be about the same if not slightly down.
And we will continue to spend aggressively on brand promotion.
We won't have somewhat of the bubble that we had in the brand integration.
So I think you'll see some operating leverage improvement there but we're not going to back off on spending on the brand especially given our global growth.
Arnie it's Roger Carlile.
I think as I just said I think overall you can expect our SG&amp;A to be relatively consistent to the prior year.
There's a number of ins and outs in that.
As Jack mentioned we're growing our international platform.
There's costs with that.
And notwithstanding the sort of the more onetime aspects of the brand the rebranding exercise have been completed.
As Dennis says there's really the maintenance aspect and the continuing support and build of the value in the brand over time.
So all of that essentially keeps us at a pretty constant SG&amp;A rate.
And in interest of time I would now like to turn the conference back to today's speakers for any additional or closing comments.
Okay.
At this point I guess the -- again thank you all for being with us this morning.
And as I hope you can tell from our phone line we're very optimistic looking forward to 2012.
The work that we've done to build our culture the work that we've done on our branding the new products that we have put out there I think bode well for us.
And look forward to chatting with do after the results of the first quarter of the term.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Daniel Slottje of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting Conference Call to discuss the company's first quarter 2012 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we will take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve uncertainties and risks.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to acquisitions or other matters business trends and other information that is not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking results investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning  and thank you to everyone for joining us today.
With me are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister our Chairman of North America.
First we'd like to give you a brief overview of the quarter and then get to your questions.
Our first quarter results are as diverse as the economic environment that gave rise to them.
On the cost side as usual in the first quarter we had a burden of approximately 150 to 200 basis points of expense related to benefits and payroll taxes that will not recur in the remaining quarters.
In addition this year as well as in years going forward we will have an additional first quarter non-cash expense of around 100 basis points relating to certain equity bonus compensation to be recognized in the first quarter when paid as opposed to amortized over the remaining life of the related employment obligations.
Finally in the quarter we incurred approximately 65 basis points of expenses and investments that not only do we believe will not recur but should actually enhance performance in many cases during the rest of the year.
As I said in a moment I'll turn it over to Roger to drill down further on these items.
On the revenue side the analysis is very compelling and reflects an interesting picture of the world.
From a geographical perspective the results appear well-correlated to headlines from today's papers.
Activities in Latin America by all accounts a cauldron of investment industry and intrigue grew by 100% year-over-year.
All of our services are represented there and all had good quarters reflective of the nature of the economic activity in this vibrant part of the world.
Asia Pacific slipped from the housing and growth rates it enjoyed most of last year again reflective of its economy and perhaps a growing concern about China.
EMEA which for us is Europe the Middle East and Africa was particularly strong with growth of 42%.
While perhaps in Congress with the headlines of double-dip recession credit crisis and political upheaval on further analysis our restructuring tax arbitration and economic practices all have excellent presence there.
So these results I believe appear to represent the strength of our company in the phase of the economy that Europe is going through and perhaps a precursor of what will happen in other parts of the world as the credit crisis worsens.
From a practice perspective again there are diverse results reflecting the diverse nature of the services we provide.
The excellent quarter in corporate finance restructuring and the somewhat sluggish performances in Technology Strategic Communications and Forensic/Litigation Consulting seemed to follow somewhat intuitively from a world in which credit is tight discretionary spending a suspect capital market transactions are rare and the governmental enforcement malaise that accompanies every U.S.
presidential election appears to possibly beginning to set in.
Economic Consulting however is a different story.
We enjoyed not only a record quarter but continuing prospects for good performance based in part on case openings in the areas of Antitrust and M&amp;A review.
Our conclusion is that in many instances our clients are strategizing and planning but reserving implementation until the economic and then more particularly the political horizons become clearer.
Overall for the quarter consolidated revenues increased 9% to a first quarter record of $395 million.
Organic growth contributed 2% of this growth.
Adjusted EBITDA was $54 million compared to $56.6 million last year and earnings per share were $0.43 compared to $0.42 a year ago.
In our segments as I mentioned Economic Consulting had another excellent quarter and continued to solidify its position as the premier adviser in these disciplines around the world.
Revenues in the segment increased a healthy 34.7% to $100 million while adjusted EBITDA grew 40% to $18.4 million.
11% of this growth was organic as a result of the continued demand for financial economics Antitrust and M&amp;A-related activity.
Also there was continued growth in our European practice.
We were especially encouraged by the activity in new matter openings and our ability to assist clients in multiple jurisdictions provides our business with considerable competitive advantage.
As cross-border M&amp;A activity and the trend in collaboration among regulatory and enforcement bodies is expected to continue as global political and economic turmoil becomes more severe.
Our Corporate Finance/Restructuring business also produced an excellent start to the year.
Revenues were up 6% to $114 million compared to $107 million in the prior-year quarter.
As you know our expectations for this segment were for revenues to stabilize or bottom out in a range between $100 million and $110 million per quarter but we are encouraged by this momentum early in the year.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $27 million an improvement of $9 million or 700 basis points which represents an increase of 52% year-over-year.
Adjusted EBITDA margins in the quarter were a little less than 24% which we feel is more normal for this segment and in an improving economic climate for its services.
Organically Corporate Finance/Restructuring grew 4% as demand for our European restructuring and our U.S.
healthcare consulting practice were not surprisingly very strong.
The remaining growth in the business was driven by the LECG practices that we acquired during the end of the first quarter of 2011.
Under the new senior leadership announced in the middle of last year this segment has seen margins expand and utilization rates increase.
Today we believe it is much better positioned to take advantage of new opportunities in its core business as the economy goes in a different direction.
Revenues in the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment increased 5% to $87 million from $82.9 million in the prior year.
While there was pricing pressure in North America we saw a 49% growth in Latin America driven by our Global Risk and Investigations practice and 20% growth in Asia Pacific from a combination of our construction solutions Global Risk and Investigations Forensic Accounting and Litigation support practices again across the board.
We also saw a good performance in our global data analytics practice and from the acquired LECG practices.
As I mentioned earlier however in each U.S.
presidential election since I've been at FTI Consulting at some point regulators and enforcers seemed to go pencils down affecting big case prosecutions like restatements foreign corrupt practices and securities fraud cases.
We may begin to see the impact of this in the first quarter both in this segment and perhaps in Technology.
In Technology revenues declined slightly to $49.7 million during the first quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the segment was $13.2 million versus $18.4 million last year as the change in revenue mix increased investment in global technical infrastructure and personnel and higher third-party costs related to litigation engagements impacted our margins.
In Strategic Communications despite increased activity in Latin America lower M&amp;A-related projects in Asia Pacific and continued softness in Europe impacted our revenue for the quarter.
Segment revenue was $45 million compared to $46 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA for the segment was $4.5 million compared to adjusted segment EBITDA of $5.4 million last year.
With that overview I'll turn it over to Roger to drill down on some of the margin issues that we addressed in the first quarter.
Roger? All right.
Thanks Jack.
As mentioned in our first quarter this morning our first quarter results included 3 types of expenses which we don't expect to recur in the second third or fourth quarters of this year.
Those are: one benefits and payroll tax which we have discussed in previous years; two accelerated bonus-related equity compensation expense; and three timing-related SG&amp;A expenses related to unique first quarter projects and other investments which are expected to generate future benefit to the overall business.
Regarding the benefits and payroll taxes expense as we have discussed in the past our first quarter of each year carries an increased expense burden for expenses such as payroll taxes and 401(k) matching of employee contributions due to the higher compensated employees having a disproportionate amount of these expenses in the first quarter as compared to the second third and fourth quarters.
As noted in the press release the first quarter expense burden is approximately 150 basis points to 200 basis points of adjusted EBITDA margin.
With respect to our bonus-related equity compensation expense our first quarter in 2012 and in future years will carry an additional increased expense burden of approximately 100 basis points of adjusted EBITDA margin.
This charge is a result of certain clauses such as retirement and non-renewal clauses in the employment agreements of our ICP agreements of our senior professionals participating in that program and the non-cash equity expense which is related to the bonus deferral element of that program being recognized in the first quarter at the time our annual bonus payments are paid and the equity related to those deferrals are awarded rather than being recognized over the entire period of the senior professionals' future employment obligations.
To be clear this impacts the quarter in which the expense is recognized rather than total expense or the timing of when the grants are actually vested to the employee based on their employment obligations.
Finally regarding the projects and investments for which increased SG&amp;A expense was incurred in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the levels of SG&amp;A expense anticipated in the second third and fourth quarters of 2012 the first quarter included increased expenses of approximately 65 basis points of adjusted EBITDA margin.
These projects and investments included among others such items as our international legal entity rationalization project for which we expect to generate $9 million of annual SG&amp;A savings or savings not necessarily SG&amp;A savings.
Once the project is finalized our website redesign project which is expected to generate additional branding and client connectivity benefits; our executive leadership summit which is expected to provide future strategic direction collaboration and cross-selling benefits; and our Board of Directors expansion and diversification project which is expected to provide benefits in terms of better understanding of our growing international markets and improved relationships with our key clients based on those geographies all together these 3 category of expenses adversely impacted our earnings per share by $0.17 to $0.19 compared to the expense levels we expect for the second third and fourth quarters of 2012.
Jack I'll turn it back to you.
Great.
So with that we'd like to turn it over to your questions if we could.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I was hoping you could give a little bit more color just to start really on the change in compensation the bonuses and the acceleration there.
A is it as simple as an accounting change or is it something that you've changed your compensation program? David it's Dennis.
It's basically more a natural reaction of the contracts.
So what happens there's 2 elements to it.
One when people accumulate enough time in service and age they can elect retirement.
No one has done that everybody's working.
But once you do reach that then you no longer can amortize any of the expense even though they're not vested in the actual payments yet.
You have to then book it when they can theoretically retire which will be instantaneously if they gave you notice.
So that's part of the equation.
So again they don't get the benefit.
There's still a rolling 3-year timeframe.
If they do retire they have a non-competition requirement that they would have to honor in order to get the benefit.
So none of that has changed.
What's changed is the way it has to be booked instantaneously once they achieve that time and service and age.
And again to restate no one -- some of these people have had this now for several years and no one has retired nor have they given us any intention of retiring.
Secondly in the first group of SMD contracts ICP contracts it was basically a 10-year program that once you reach the sixth year you start rolling onto annual contracts that are automatically renewed with 90-day notice.
Again the bonuses are still deferred as far as actual payments.
So there's a time-vesting requirement.
But since they're annual contracts that people could give us notice at the end of the year they then have the non-competition requirement that's attached to it.
So they don't get paid unless to use illegal terminology they're good leavers.
So the practical aspect is not changed in the contracts.
It's more the way you have to account and it's driven by those 2 elements.
One just simply part of the contracts maturing to where they are now on annual renewal.
And part of the contracts some of them have matured to annual renewal they're still on term but people have accumulated enough time and service to where they could retire.
Yes David it's Roger.
Just to be real clear on that it has not changed the timing of when those grants are made.
It has not changed the total expense of those grants.
It simply changes which quarters the expense is recognized then.
Right.
David it pulls expense in that you would either amortize over a 4-quarter basis or a 36-quarter basis depending on the actual deferral.
It pulls it into 1 quarter.
LLC</strong> So you anticipated -- part 2 of the question which was so essentially looking at that 100 basis points it's acceleration into a certain quarter so the rest of the year should benefit? That is correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the other expenses that you called out can you give us a sense -- some of those sound like at least for this year they'll be ongoing like the website initiative and the board expansion? Can you give us a sense for how much of that truly rolls off as onetime to first quarter versus maybe they are specific to this quarter but they're sort of with us to stay? Yes.
About 1/3 of it is the final payments to outside vendors for the redesign of our website which is now up and in place.
And it was the end of the project it was third-party vendors engineers and designers who are working with us on it and that won't recur.
The new website is up and running and those payments were made in the quarter.
The annual -- we have a global management meeting normally every 18 months to 24 months and it simply fell in this quarter.
We won't have another one until probably mid next year when we pull everybody together.
And it fell into the quarter pulling that many people around the world as expense of that represented about $1 million in round numbers of the expense.
We will be adding -- if you looked at our proxy we are adding 4 new directors 2 from Europe 1 from South America -- actually 3 in Europe 1 from South America.
And those gentlemen have accepted our invitation to come.
They are in our proxy statement.
The shareholders in fact are voting on their election as we speak and we are optimistic that they will be successfully elected and will join us at our annual meeting in June.
The fee to the outside search firm that worked with us in this director search was a first quarter charge so that again will not recur.
So there's a mix and match but at the end of the day David it's really driven by 3 things.
One it was the final payments to the outside vendors who worked with us on the design of the new website.
Two was the fact that our almost sort of semi-annual or annual-plus meeting fell in the first quarter.
And then finally it's the director search fees for 4 new directors that were paid to a third-party headhunter.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
Perfect.
That's really helpful.
Just one quick one if I can sneak it in.
So all of that stuff sounds like fairly routine to be expected so to speak of doing business.
So I guess just curious without formally updating guidance can you give us a sense for how much of the expense basically truly surprised you versus what was embedded in your guidance? Well nothing surprised us.
I think the timing of the web project ending when it did probably surprised us.
We actually thought it would be finished more towards the end of last year continued into this year.
And so I would say if we had 1 surprise it was probably that.
The annual -- the actual meeting costs we knew would just be a timing element.
And I think we were well aware of the pull in expenses from the charge of the SMD bonus payments into the first quarter.
I think it wasn't until perhaps we had pushed every number that we got the final amounts.
Part of it was driven David because we had to wait for the audit of last year to confirm what the bonus pools were and what the payouts would be to the individuals.
So there might have been a slight increased number there.
So I think basically what we're saying is that we don't expect those costs to continue for the year.
Some will recur next year as Roger stated and therefore that's pretty much baked into our heads as we go forward looking at our potential results.
Yes they were expected throughout the year.
They happen to occur on the first quarter.
So none of them were unanticipated it was just you didn't know when the director search fees and you didn't know when the website fees were going to be completed.
So those 2 were more serendipitous as to timing.
And we will go next to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I just want to know if you can elaborate a little more on what you're seeing in the Technology segment.
I know you talked about the potential impact of elections but generally as I check around with companies it sounds like their demand environment is still reasonably positive there.
So can you give us a little more color on what happened if there's some big cases that rolled off and what the kind of pipeline looks like for the rest of the year? Yes.
We did -- we have 2 very large cases that are rolling off and slowing down.
And so that might be unique to us but that is the circumstances.
And so the new business is obviously replacing significant assignments that have rolled off.
Tim we are also seeing pricing pressure on the processing side by competitors.
I think while there is a demand out there for services clearly there are a lot of people that are competing pretty much based on price.
And I think that's not so much a case in complex matters but it certainly seems to be the rule rev and the exception and sort of your ordinary matter.
So maybe the volume of ordinary matters is up but we're seeing much more aggressive pricing pressure in those areas.
And I think we're cautiously optimistic on second requests going forward given the amount of retentions we're getting in Econ but we saw second requests start to trip.
While we did very well in the quarter in second requests we saw the momentum start to trail off at the end.
And so I think as Jack said we'll have to see whether people actually pull the trigger on some of these deals that we're helping them analyze.
If they do that will argue well for that business to go up.
So I would say your assumption is right.
One we've had 2 big accounts slow down and two we are seeing pricing pressure pretty aggressive again in the processing side.
Research Division</strong> Where are you at with those large cases rolling off? I mean is there more pain if you will...
In a baseball game parlance in one of them we're in the eighth -- the bottom of the eighth and in another one we're probably entering the top of the eighth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the restructuring business I know you've been due a Lehman success fee and you get success fees every now and then.
But was there anything unusual about the amount of success fees? No we did not get the Lehman success fee in the quarter.
Yes this was basic blocking and tackling and a lot of hard work by these folks and it had to happen.
But Europe and Spain in particular started to show a market there that it had to -- I knew it had to happen it just hadn't so we saw a very strong results there.
And again not surprisingly our U.S.
healthcare practice was very very strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me just kind of following up a little bit on David's.
A line of questioning there was -- so I mean are you trying to -- I guess the way you're describing the first quarter is this in line with what you would have expected when you gave your prior guidance or did the mix of revenue come in such that the margins are a little lower? Just trying to understand how to think about this relative to what you expected.
I think the expenses came in about where we expected and we didn't expect.
As I said there are 1 or 2 exceptions that may have fallen in the second quarter that we thought may have fallen into the fourth quarter.
We didn't know the final impact of the pull -- the pull into the first quarter of the equity compensation expense until late in the quarter once we had finalized the audit what the bonus payouts were going to look like though we might have been a little surprised from the expense side.
On the revenue side without a doubt the bigger surprise is Technology because it's one of our highest margin businesses.
And the fact that the revenue came in it came in lower than we had anticipated there.
While it was offset by increases in revenue elsewhere they have the highest margin of any of our businesses.
And so -- and even inside of Tech we saw a shift in some of their businesses to where it affected their margins.
So I would say clearly the single biggest difference in our thought process was the margin of Technology that was driven by shifts of business and obviously less-than-expected revenues.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow-up one last one on that.
I mean do you -- talk about the competitive position of that Tech segment and how do you feel.
Has there been any changes that make you more or less confident around kind of the competitive environment or is it more to do with timing? I think that it's -- I think it's extremely competitive.
They've had some significant new wins that will be reflected as they go forward and they've had new wins against big name technology companies with sort of FORTUNE 500 size clients.
I think there is no doubt that in the middle sort of the continuum middle-size type engagements it's extremely price competitive.
I think the law firms we can read about all the issues facing law firms and the pressures on them by their clients to contain costs.
I think that's flowing through into what they would view as routine matters where you need this type of electronic production.
And so I would say that we are seeing significant price competition.
We have the ability to meet it.
We will meet it on a selective basis.
We are seeing less of it at the high-end and the complex-end but then these very huge cases are difficult to predict exactly when they're going to hit you.
We know we'll get them but you can't predict quarter-to-quarter exactly when they come in.
So I think that we feel very well-positioned.
We're rolling out a new suite of technology that has significant user face-friendly advantages.
We've tested it with a couple of major law firms.
So we're getting very good feedback back about how much easier it is to use the technology.
There's never been a doubt that our technology has been at the high-end of the power range.
There has been some complaints from people that it's not the easiest to use out there.
I think that will be solved with this new rollout.
So on a technology basis we are still investing heavily in it.
We think it's yielding us good competitive advantage.
On a consulting basis we don't view that there's anyone out there that's better than we are which is why we feel we get the big cases.
In the routine cases I think the general counsels who are under pressure to control their costs are pressuring the law firms to control costs.
And ergo any other third-party vendor is getting the same pressure and I don't think that's going away.
Yes I think the -- some -- when you analyze our business as opposed to some others we do have an R&amp;D cost that doesn't go away.
If the revenues are down on a quarterly level we also -- we think our new Ringtail product that Dennis alluded to is going to be perhaps a game changer for us they are certainly important.
And also the work that we're doing right now vis-à-vis the ability to host in the cloud and I think it's perhaps going to be a major differentiator for us.
So we're still very optimistic for the year and we think again we have the right team in place to handle whatever comes.
And we will go next to Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you just flash back to last year help us understand what the quarterly progression of the bonus compensation would have looked like through the year on the equity side so we know what's baked into that comparison? Dan it's Roger Carlile.
In terms of looking at 2011 if you remember the change we made last year in the third quarter if you look at those numbers now you'll see that same trend.
We're just calling it out because I don't think people fully understand it.
But you'll see the same trend of having a higher equity compensation expense related to the bonus deferrals in that program in Q1 versus Q2s 3 and 4.
Yes this was -- our explanation of this was not an issue of explaining a differential between this year and last year it was to help you with your model going forward so that you didn't build that in as a fixed cost throughout the year.
That's all we were trying to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And so with the -- no significant success fees move in the base on restructuring has the base level for you guys moved up a little bit where you think the bottoming-out process is somewhere closer to $110 million? Well I think we feel -- as we said to you probably starting in the third quarter last year we were feeling fairly confident that we are in that bottoming-out range.
I mean we're now seeing real growth.
So we're seeing new assignments coming in and we have significant growth -- I would say what the main drivers of the growth was year-over-year improvement in our European operations.
And I mean I don't have to tell you what's going on in Europe.
We're all looking at it minute-by-minute and it is now translating into increased work for them.
And depending on how that situation is managed over there clearly it could increase fairly significantly the amount of business they're doing and we are prepared to handle that kind of increased work.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last one from me.
Just on the FLC side from a bill rate utilization headcount perspective those trends have kind of ticked down in the last few quarters.
Could you talk about any impact of the LECG personnel moving on to the FTI model that's driving that or just help us understand the dynamics there? Dan it's Roger Carlile.
I don't think the LECG personnel that joined FLC at this point are having any impact in terms of being on the model or the impact of the margins.
They're performing at the -- on the same compensation models and at the same run rates.
So there's nothing there.
I think as was mentioned by Jack in his comments in the press release I think Forensic and Litigation Consulting is facing pricing pressure in North America.
As you could see in the numbers there their average rate moved down just a little bit over -- year-over-year.
So I think that's something that they're facing.
And then the headcount reduction although minor I think is just them being cautious in this environment that you have some normal attrition.
And they are adding people in the right places but they're not adding as quickly as their normal attrition.
FLC is probably the area where we invested the heaviest in what we call multiple new initiatives.
Some of those initiatives are absolutely beginning to pay off.
As Jack talked about the growth in Latin America now in Asia and Europe of our GRIP practice is really starting to pay off.
Other initiatives have not paid off well for us.
They appear to either be marginal and we're trying to decide whether that's macro-driven or micro-driven.
And if it's micro-driven then we will take the appropriate steps to end those initiatives because you can only go so far with investments before you have to turn around and say "It's just not going to give us the return we want." So I think you will probably see in that segment over the next 2 quarters us being more aggressive in analyzing those initiatives which could result in a reduction of headcount as we terminate initiatives that just simply have not paid off for us in a way that we would like and try to feed the other ones that are in fact doing better than we thought.
And we will go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious about your overall perception of the market for you.
Is there a change that maybe we're not going to see that much of an up-cycle? Because you do have businesses that perform differently in different kind of economic scenarios and from the prepared remarks it seems like maybe that's changed.
Tobey it's Dennis.
I think Jack's comment that this is a confusing world we're living in right now is appropriate.
I think there is clearly segment -- sectors and segments in the U.S.
economy that seem to be doing really well.
But the question is are they doing really well relative to their highs in 2007 or are they doing better because they're comping against numbers that are being measured against the trough of 2008 2009 maybe in 2010? Clearly some on an absolute basis are doing very well.
I think the overall growth in the U.S.
is not exciting and really if we're agonizing or already saying we're trying to figure out what's going to happen in the second half.
Europe is in our opinion much worse than we thought it was.
We are well-positioned to take advantage of issues that may arise out of there but without a doubt it is absolutely depressing their capital markets.
While there has been IPO activity here in the U.S.
certainly notable tech IPOs there are practically 0 activity in any of the European marketplaces.
And so that's just -- it's almost a direct derivative of the fact that there's just nothing going on over there as far as new offerings new capital raises.
And I think overall our feeling is Europe is worse U.S.
has the potential to have a slower second half than maybe a lot of people thought we're trying to figure that out.
On the other hand Latin America and Asia are right now doing better than we thought they would do for us.
So I think we've got 1 quarter of data and I think that's what we're trying to digest.
It's too early to make any kind of call yet but I think it's a confusing environment.
Picking up on Dennis' comments Latin America is vibrant and it's not surprising that all our services down there are doing really well because we serve every phase of the economy.
In other areas of the world the things that we do that deal with crisis where you can't afford not to bring us in or where we do with planning where again ironically you can't afford not to bring us in are doing very well.
I reference our economic consulting and the amount of work we're seeing on Antitrust and M&amp;A.
I reference the European activity in our restructuring where people -- when the economy is so bad people can't put off any longer some of the issues that they have to face.
And then I think it's indicative of our GRIP practice where around the world they are some of the busiest people we have because people are still trying to figure out and plan what to do either proactively or reactionarily to the changes that are going to come in as a result of political change and the unrest.
So I think the bottom line is we think we're very well-positioned.
We think just like every other time we've been through this a dam will burst but it's hard to predict what the date of that or timing will be.
But certainly towards the back half of the year you would think with some of the resolution of the political issues we would begin to see some action one way or the other and that's when FTI really thrives.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You highlighted the healthcare business as being good.
I was wondering if you could give us sort of some more color or rate of growth there and then comment on what your expectations are for industry consolidation in 2012.
Toby could you elaborate industry consolidation? You mean in our offerings or industry consolidation in the macro sense? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Industry consolidation within your offerings and what kind of role you expect to play.
Okay.
In general the healthcare business has been up and it's a combination of a lot of things.
David why don't you take that? Well our healthcare business comprises a number of different practices a number of different segments.
So the one we're specifically referring to within the corporate finance segment is the people who help hospitals become more efficient in what they do.
So it involves process improvement purchasing.
So that particular business was up about almost 20% year-over-year in the quarter.
So I think that's one of the primary drivers.
I would say our business on monitorships where we're actually in various healthcare providers monitoring certain issues has been stable maybe up slightly.
The -- obviously we are going to market more across our segments on an industry basis.
We've had good success in doing that with our communications media and entertainment group.
We've had some good success with that in some of our financial services especially our insurance group.
And I think you will continue to see probably our company evolve to where at a minimum there will be virtual industry groupings across our segments that go to market together to use their domain expertise inside the marketplace as a competitive advantage.
Was your question on the M&amp;A front are we seeing activity in the hospital consolidation area? Inc.
Research Division</strong> No it was broader than healthcare.
Just kind of curious...
Okay.
Well we are anyway.
And we will go next to Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
I wonder if you could give us a sense of kind of utilization in the U.S.
versus Europe and how we should think about headcount across some of the verticals as we make our way through 2012.
I think -- you want to go through each of the -- when you say the verticals you want to go through each of the segments and their utilization? Yes.
Just across kind of U.S.
versus Europe.
And then as you think about headcount across the segments it seems like you had an uptick in Q1.
How should that play out over the balance of the year? Right.
Okay.
At the tip of my fingers I don't -- I can't break it down in terms of segment and geography that quickly.
But generally speaking what you would see is is that utilization and headcount for each of the segments follows closely the way we spoke about the regions and the products.
So if you think about FLC FLC's headcount and utilizations are up and strong in Latin America and Asia Pacific but not so in the U.S.
In the U.S.
their headcount would tend to be probably down slightly and their utilizations are down.
As you saw the average is down.
Also there's a little bit of a trick in there in the U.S.
versus outside U.S.
A major part of our activity in the U.K.
is in the Strategic Communications where they don't keep utilization as a number it's a fixed fee type of assignment business.
Similarly around the world a lot of our practices the GRIP practice and in Asia the utilization per person is not as important as it is for project fees and things like that.
So I just give you that caveat while Roger explains that.
So we're -- intuitively the utilization is very good in the places they keep it in Europe for example in restructuring and in economic consulting.
So Roger...
Right.
No I think that's right.
So I mean off line I could probably give you a little more detail.
But in terms of looking at the overall segments if you look at the regions and you look at the segments that are participating in that region you would see a high correlation as I explained for FLC.
I think you're seeing -- we're adding people in Econ.
It reflects sort of the emergences as really the #1 player.
The demand is high there.
New engagements that were open in the quarter were approaching record.
And so you would see that possibly expand.
FLC as Roger said just based on demand plus what I had said before that that is where I anticipate that we will be making some movement in this quarter and next quarter to analyze the investments that we made in some of these initiatives over the last couple of years and decide which ones we're going to continue and which ones are going to stop.
That could yield at least over 2- or 3-quarter basis a drop in the personnel complement in that area.
Technology actually added people in the first quarter and in FLC I think their personnel complement is budget to be fairly flat for the year.
But again demand geographically could change that but it would probably just balance out 1 geography after another.
If I could point out one thing you may find significant.
You'll know that the economic consulting utilization is roughly the same this year's quarter versus last year's quarter suggesting correctly that the LECG professionals who have joined us are working at the similar high rates that our people do traditionally in the business.
So I think that's a real positive thing for how well that acquisition is going.
Got it.
And then in Europe in particular how trend has been on the Corporate Finance/Restructuring side? Has that business kind of been where you thought it was a little bit stronger given the dislocation? Or is it kind of -- is that more of a second half 2012 event for that business? No it started the year better than we anticipated or about possibly where -- certainly it's stronger in Europe than we anticipated.
And I think overall it slowed a little bit in Asia.
That was offset by a pickup in Europe.
It's picked up down in Latin America and it's clearly moving in the right direction here in the States.
So I would say the momentum there is more than we would have planned sort of a couple of quarters ago looking at this year.
And we will go next to Jim Janesky with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you look at election years we certainly seen in the past that election years do often cause a freeze in litigation.
What are your thoughts once the election is over with the current administration do you think they will be likely to or it will be likely to open up litigation? Will it take a change in administration or do you think that neither are going to get very aggressive in 2013? Well just the resolution of the election will resume activity.
Because in today's environment nobody is not going to be able to continue to go after some of the excesses that took place in the last several years.
So I think that will matter.
You'll see an antitrust enforcement incredibly increase and that's one bright spot as I was talking about that does not seem to have abated.
Not only does the Justice Department seem pretty fired up about going after people but there does seem to be this new at least on the surface collaboration between authorities and the different governments even though I think their interest are not necessarily aligned.
So I expect that to stay very strong.
And on the SEC enforcement side I would expect that no matter who is elected that in the areas of foreign corrupt practices and of restatements and things like that you're going to see activity resume.
This is usually a phenomenon not so much of anything but people trying to figure out where they're going to be working after the election whether they are riding the right horse whether they're getting their résumés out or whatever.
So I think either way no matter what happened in the past it really hasn't mattered who came in it was the resolution of the election that just got the Justice Department and other entities repopulated re-led and it goes its own course.
So the people don't go there to be inactive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about the strength in Corporate Finance within Europe.
Can you give us an idea of what percent of revenues overall company overall are within Europe? And is Corporate Finance disproportionately higher or lower than the company average? Well the answer is yes we can.
We don't break those out.
About 26% 27% almost this quarter of revenues were non-North America with Europe being the predominant place where those revenues would reside.
And Corporate Finance over in Europe would -- yes would not be disproportionately higher.
If anything right now it might be because of the -- that's where the financial dynamics group was founded and that's where the bulk of their revenues are.
It would be actually smaller as a percentage of overall revenues versus Corporate Finance as a whole in the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to the benefit and payroll resets was there anything that came in unusually high in the first quarter? Or were you just trying to call it out to make sure that everyone takes that into consideration when modeling the first quarter? Yes it's the latter.
They came in maybe a little higher.
I mean we had a very good year last year and so that simple drives the bonus pools the bonus pools drive what percentage is paid in stock.
As I said the people don't have that the people don't have that but they'll get it over time.
But we now book it in 1 quarter versus -- over the life of their employment obligation.
So I would say just maybe a slight uptick on what we were expecting.
We really wanted to call it out because it is a significant change and that change will reoccur going forward.
And for the most part it's pulling expense in the 1 quarter that would have been the minimum over 1 year or several years.
LLC Research Division</strong> So we should expect somewhere on the order of 250 to 300 basis points between payroll benefits and non-cash comp right? That is correct.
And we will go next to Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff Rossetti calling on behalf of Joe.
I know you've mentioned some cases large cases rolling off.
Is there -- and the challenging environment for FLC in Technology.
But could you maybe talk about if there is a pipeline at all for the larger cases for this year? Well we've got 3 significant wins can't discuss the cases for obvious reasons.
All 3 have the potential to be large cases but we won't know yet until we really get into them.
And I think without describing the cases to you which I won't do we really can't talk about it except to say that we -- and they're very recent wins they literally have been in the last couple of weeks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dennis I think -- just a follow-up.
I think you have mentioned this a few times.
But the possible headcount reductions is there any kind of detail on those investment initiatives more specific on what area within FLC? No I think it's in several areas.
And I think as we said so I think we've been talking about this for several years.
We wanted to give some of these some runway to see how they would work out.
Some as Jack talked about earlier worked out extremely well.
Others have not worked and we had already started making some moves to stop those investments.
And some more importantly you get caught in sort of the Never Land of they're working okay but not anywhere near an acceptable margin that we're used to.
And the question is are we better off re-diverting those resources into other areas that certainly have more upside potential and are working much better? So I think you'll see the actions take in this quarter and next quarter but I don't want to call out on our call necessarily which ones -- once we take actions I think it will be easier to discuss them.
And we'll go next to Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Since we didn't really get an explicit update on guidance can we consider that guidance for the full year has been reiterated on the call? Would you guys...
No.
I think our policy is to update guidance at the end of the second quarter after we've had 2 quarters.
I think we tried to point out to you certainly on an expense side that first quarter was impacted by a bunch of expenses that won't reoccur.
So that's clearly a positive.
But I think we are not sitting here right now saying that we have the clearest of crystal balls on the revenue side going forward.
I think we have good news in some areas coming in some okay news in other areas.
And I think we'll digest it this quarter and we will update our guidance as is our policy at the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also looking at the effect of M&amp;A it seemed that it was positive for Economic Consulting but then was a headwind for Strategic Communications.
Can you help us kind of how to think about that? Now that it was the same factor it was negative for 1 positive for the other.
Sure.
There's very little M&amp;A right now emanating out of Europe and that's where they have -- probably their strongest M&amp;A business would be over in Europe.
So I think they're geographically impacted by the fact that there's just been a dearth of any of that activity.
The Econtract just tends to be a more global practice and again it tends to be brought in on a prospective basis than an actual basis.
So they get a lot of retentions looking at deals and trying to understand whether -- if the target is actually acquired can it be approved either in Europe U.S.
or wherever the relative jurisdiction is.
And I think that we had 3 big M&amp;A assignments over the last 1.5 years out in Australia where our guys did a fantastic job on them.
Both of those were completed in and they were clients those Strategic Communications.
So there is just the example of 3 deals burnt off.
And I think if you're reading anything about the Australian economy things have calmed down there a little bit so it might take a while for that to reappear.
In a nutshell I think what it looks like to us is people are doing an awful lot of planning a lot of what-ifs a lot of -- they have every issue from stranded cash to taxation and what's going to happen.
And I think there's a lot of planning doing which bodes well for when there's a little bit of clarity.
Then the other segments of FTI Consulting ought to be able to capitalize on that.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to turn it back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
I guess the closing remarks will be the same ones that we had in the press release which is we are extremely well-positioned for whichever way the world goes over the next 12 months.
Our crystal ball like everyone else's is a little murky with the election results just in from France the ones coming up here.
And so we think we have some good runway some good vision but I think the major impact is going to be really as these elections political and economic crises unfold and we get a chance to really see where the world is going.
So with that we look forward to speaking to you on our next conference call.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over Ms.
Mollie Hawkes.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's second quarter 2012 results as reported yesterday evening.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results expectations plans or intentions business trends and other information that is not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking results investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued yesterday evening a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call.
During the call we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted-segment EBITDA adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables we issued yesterday evening.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you Mollie.
Welcome and thank you to everyone for joining us today.
With me on the call are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister our Chairman of North America.
First we'd like to give you a brief overview of the quarter; next share some of the elements behind the reasoning for our guidance; and then most importantly get to you your questions.
In the second quarter we saw a continued strong demand in our Economic Consulting and Corporate Finance/Restructuring segments.
In economics this was based on antitrust and a surprisingly strong M&amp;A-related activity and on financial economics especially matters related to fallout from the financial crisis for mortgage-backed securities auction-rate securities and derivatives litigation to more recently municipal bid-rigging now the LIBOR and Euribor matters.
In Corporate Finance/Restructuring we saw a continuing demand for bankruptcy and restructuring matters especially in North America.
It's an interesting market on the creditor's side.
Credit markets continued to fund or refund some transactions that would ordinarily be candidates for us.
While on the debtor side we saw increasing -- increasingly companies moving to preemptively structure and restructure in anticipation possibly of even tougher credit and economic environments ahead.
For the quarter revenues were $396.2 million.
The impact of foreign currency translation reduced our consolidated revenues by approximately 1% or about $4.5 million.
Adjusted EBITDA was $66.6 million or 16.8% of revenues.
Fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.18 including the previously announced special charge of $26.8 million which reduced fully diluted earnings per share by $0.42.
For the quarter adjusted earnings per share were $0.60.
Both fully diluted earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share included a $4.1 million revaluation gain which increased fully diluted earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share by $0.10.
Roger will discuss these results in more detail in a moment.
As previously announced we took actions during the quarter to further address our markets and reduced our cost footprint.
These actions were expected to result in $14.9 million of savings over the remainder of 2012 which will improve our profitability as we look ahead to a difficult global economic environment and the election cycle in the United States.
At the same time we continued to make important investments in our business including the launch of our Technology segment in Asia-Pacific region and the expansion of both our health care and our energy industry practices.
As we look forward for the remainder of the year in 2013 there are a couple of trends on which we are particularly focused.
First as I mentioned above is the litigation and related activities stemming from the financial crisis the latest manifestation being the LIBOR probe.
We already have multiple engagements there and like the others that relate to the crisis derivatives bid-rigging securities cases these matters are complex and we are now reaching the discovery phase.
This should be a positive sign for us going forward.
The second is the rise in whistleblower complaints proceeding at an unheralded pace.
SEC officials have reported seeing as many as 8 to 10 complaints daily as informants seek to cash in on the new provisions of Dodd-Frank.
I think given recent events these are things that the SEC can ignore.
And I think again it's another -- while it's impossible to say what percentage will turn into full-scale global investigations we've already seen them develop into major issues and full-blown investigations.
As I say it's something that the SEC given the current environment can't ignore.
Third while FCPA investigations have always been a part of our services and are continuing at a relatively steady pace they are becoming increasingly more global and complex.
This trend leads to increased complex e-discovery engagements for which we anticipate companies will continue to demand larger-scale engagements with more robust software more global consultants and deeper investigative and litigative knowledge.
A simple software solution is no longer enough.
In addition often these and other type of fraud investigations develop into monitorship situations where we are well qualified to assist our clients.
From a practice perspective our results for the quarter reflected the diverse nature of our services and also the markets in which we provide them.
As stated earlier our results were led by strong performance in our Economic Consulting and Corporate Finance/Restructuring segments.
At the same time challenging market conditions led by uncertainty in the global economic and regulatory landscape have continued to weigh on corporate and capital markets' activity and spending which remain at very low levels globally.
Despite these reduced levels of capital market activity our Strategic Communications segment maintained its global M&amp;A standing again topping the global M&amp;A league tables by deal volume during the quarter.
Turning more specifically to individual segment performance.
Corporate Finance/Restructuring benefited from continuing demand for North America bankruptcy and restructuring services coupled with higher demand across the Pacific region.
In addition strategic actions we made to strengthen the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment over the last year drove a year-over-year increase in gross margin along with 620 basis points.
Looking ahead we see continued demand for bankruptcy and restructuring engagements in the U.S.
and in Latin America that should benefit us as we move through the rest of the year.
And interestingly more and more people in the industry believe that the real action may be in Europe in the year ahead and this includes predictably hedge fund managers who look at these situations.
Results in our Economic Consulting segment were driven by continued strong demand as we mentioned for antitrust the pricing demand for M&amp;A-related activity and financial economics predominantly in North America.
This growth was somewhat tempered by lower demand for international arbitration and valuation practices in EMEA.
While the number of M&amp;A transactions is at historically low levels so called first-look engagements in this segment continue to be a bright spot especially as they would seem to portend actionable assignments as soon as the political and financial environments become more resolved and transparent in the coming months.
The Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment saw a growth in its Latin America Global Risk and Investigations practice as well as in its global financial and enterprise data analytics or FEDA practice.
While we saw some decreased demand in North America and EMEA the trend in litigation arising from the financial crisis that I mentioned above should also benefit this segment.
Most interesting to me in FEDA we have developed proprietary data analytics products in the area of mortgage-backed securities that should provide us an unique advantage in competing for cases as they reach the discovery and then trial phases where the heavy lifting is done.
In addition as we saw this year in Corporate Finance/Restructuring we would expect to see improved financial performance in the second half of 2012 in Forensics and Litigation Consulting as a result of the actions we took in the second quarter.
Technology was impacted by weaker demand for processing of electronically stored information from certain product liability and intellectual property matters.
Also lower pricing for on-demand hosting and lower-average pricing for consulting services due to staff mix in the quarter partially offset -- was partially offset by continued growth in the number of pages we host in our on-demand hosting services.
While we are seeing several of our largest client projects ramp down we are increasingly optimistic regarding the number of new client engagements building in this segment and the reaction to our recent release of Ringtail 8.2.
What remains most interesting to me however in this segment is the continued momentum towards more sophisticated and larger players both on the supplier side and on the buyer side.
And I think in the next couple of months and the year ahead you'll see a continuing move to the consolidation of the practice where a number of people who can guarantee the quality provide the scale and have global reach will be the real beneficiaries of this market consolidation.
In Strategic Communications we saw fewer M&amp;A-related projects in Asia Pacific and pricing pressure on retainer fees in EMEA and North America.
We did see more retainer work in Latin America however indicative of the economy there.
In spite of the headwinds we maintained our leadership position in all of the key markets and are well positioned to take advantage of the conditions when they improve.
Strategic Communications' growth opportunities remain broad based ranging from restructuring prices capital markets and corporate communications engagements to employee engagement assignments across several industries with particular strength in energy natural resources and health care.
From a geographic perspective second quarter revenue results appear well correlated to headlines from the day's papers reflecting relative areas of prosperity and gloom.
Activities in Latin America grew by 23% year-over-year driven by noteworthy growth in our Economic Consulting and Forensic and Litigation Consulting segments.
Not only are all of our services now represented in Latin America more importantly we now have critical mass in each of them and saw a good revenue growth reflective of the nature of the economic activity in this vibrant part of the world during the quarter.
In Asia-Pacific revenue grew by 6%.
While not quite up to the excellent growth rates we saw most of last year results were good considering a decline in some M&amp;A work there especially the slowing of China's natural resource acquisitions activities in the region as it focused on other areas.
In EMEA which I have referred to Europe the Middle East and Africa revenue decreased 14% as the result of the continued macroeconomic slowdown in the region.
Remember the largest component of the practice there is Strategic Communications which is the most sensitive to the economic slowdown.
Activities in North America were flat year-over-year.
The results were impacted by a slowing economic environment and uncertain political backdrop and lackluster capital markets activity.
Looking ahead given the current macro backdrop the second half of the year guidance reflects a cautious outlook which in North America is driven by continuing paralysis we see in Washington until there is some clarity on tax and economic policy and abroad with the continuing euro zone unease about credit markets.
Longer term it's clear we are entering a more aggressive regulatory and enforcement environment with continuing litigation and ever-increasing complex global transactions.
This environment should bode very well for large consulting firms with global reach and reputations like FTI Consulting.
We remain confident in our realigned Technology and Forensic and Litigation Consulting segments.
In Technology larger engagements are trending towards companies with more scale who are viewed as the safer place in the marketplace as the buying decision increasingly goes towards corporate America.
We continued to see a need in applications for our Technology segment internationally and accordingly are investing around the globe most recently in Asia Pacific.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting as I mentioned before we have seen a recent uptick in whistle-blowing complaints and stable demand for FCPA and financial investigations.
In Strategic Communications while we are maintaining our leadership position and market share on all of our key markets and we are well positioned to take advantage of conditions as they improve we also are not sitting still.
We are moving ahead to grow our company in areas of global affairs and corporate communications so that we can diversify somewhat from our dependence on the 2 areas mentioned.
In closing we now expect that revenues for 2012 will be between $1.56 billion and $1.58 billion and adjusted EPS will be between $2.15 and $2.35.
This guidance assumes no acquisitions and no share repurchases.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Roger to talk about several of the items that occurred during the second quarter.
Roger? Thanks Jack.
As mentioned in our press release our second quarter results included 2 items which bear a little further discussion.
First was the previously announced special charge of $26.8 million which resulted from headcount reduction and real estate consolidation actions.
And the second was the $4.1 million revaluation gain which resulted from the re-measurement of acquisitions-related contingent consideration.
And to better understand the impact of the special charge on the segments I wanted to provide a little breakdown of that.
For Corporate Finance/Restructuring they recorded a special charge in the quarter of $11.1 million which is expected to yield $1.7 million in savings over the remainder of 2012.
In Economic Consulting they recorded a special charge in the quarter of $800 000 which is expected to yield $500 000 in savings over the remainder of 2012.
For the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment they recorded a special charge in the quarter of $7.3 million which in conjunction with other voluntary actions and salary reductions taken during the quarter are expected to yield $7.2 million in savings over the remainder of 2012.
The Technology segment recorded a special charge in the quarter of $3 million which in conjunction with other voluntary terminations during the quarter are expected to yield $3.1 million in savings over the remainder of 2012.
Strategic Communications recorded a special charge in the quarter of $4.5 million which is expected to yield $2 million in savings over the remainder of 2012.
And finally the corporate unallocated SG&amp;A groups recorded a special charge -- a small special charge in the quarter of $100 000 which is expected to yield about $400 000 in savings over the remainder of 2012.
As stated previously we expect these actions to result in operational savings of $14.9 million in total for the remainder of 2012 with roughly half of that amount impacting each of quarters 3 and quarter 4 of 2012.
Turning to the $4.1 million revaluation gain the company reduced its acquisition-related contingent consideration liability related to its acquisition of FS Asia Advisory Limited.
This reduction was based upon a revaluation of the consideration expected to be paid during the remainder of the final earn-out period.
The resulting reduction in the liability was reported as income and is included within the acquisition-related contingent consideration line item in the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income which increased adjusted EBITDA for the quarter by $4.1 million; increasing the adjusted-segment EBITDA of the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment by $3.8 million and the adjusted-segment EBITDA of the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment by $300 000; and increasing EPS and adjusted EPS for the company for the quarter by $0.10.
Jack I'll turn it back to you.
Thank you.
With that we'd like to open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Jack just want to follow up first on your comment on the e-discovery sector in becoming the competitive environment becoming more mature and focused around some bigger players.
I guess just generally could you elaborate on that? And is your comment meant to describe you expect some M&amp;A-driven consolidation to happen in the near term? Or was it just meant that while there's pricing pressure it's more rational than we may think about it? Just kind of elaborate on what you meant because it seemed like a new comment.
It's Dennis.
I'll try to start that off.
I think as you know better than anyone there's been significant consolidation in the industry.
The prices that were paid for companies were at fairly high end on a multiple basis.
And these big companies while there may be strategic reasons to do it they need to get a return.
And a lot of the companies that have been acquired were fairly aggressive price competitors.
And what we're seeing is more of a move to stabilize pricing and to try to go out into the market with either bigger or broader offerings.
So I think while we're not yet ready to say that all the price pressure has evaporated we're certainly seeing signs of some stability.
And it's our feeling that a lot of that is driven by the need to get a return on these acquisitions that companies paid a pretty high premium for.
And obviously one way of doing it is to increase your revenue base.
As far as your question will there be more consolidation? I think the answer will be yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's a change from even a quarter ago when it seemed like you were saying the pricing pressure had gotten worse.
Well I think it's -- the pricing pressure on storage is always going to be there basically driven by Moore's law so you have to overcome the decline in the cost of storage for people by more volume.
That has not changed nor do we believe necessarily that that will change.
Our volumes over the last 4 years have probably tripled.
But then the price has gone down almost proportionately.
So I think -- but clearly we are seeing in the big jobs less price pressure more demand from clients on performance.
And so to a certain extent maybe some self-selection out of the smaller guys that had been more price competitive.
So maybe it's a combination of both more complexity in the work ergo stronger demand for performance and ability of some of the smaller companies who are the most aggressive price competitors to be able to compete at that level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look at the results of that segment you gave us some details on the different components of the revenue lines there which were up and which were down.
But how much -- I guess how much of the impact -- there is a large -- are large cases rolling off.
Are you comfortable that the -- excluding that the underlying business is stable and competing well out there in the marketplace? The actual new business bookings have been very good.
They have not been yet.
Some of them have the potential to be big.
They have not been yet of the size to replace the burn-off of 2 significant I would call 2 of the largest relationships we've ever had.
So I think from an acquisition point of view the quality of the client point of view and the potential size point of view I think we're very encouraged going forward.
But we just have to work our way through the burn-off of these 2 big accounts as they drop significantly quarter-over-quarter over quarter.
They're being replaced.
But in some of these we are optimistic that the actual normalized run rates are going to increase significantly.
But they're -- a lot of them are very new and we're just getting up to speed.
So I think from a competitive point of view we feel very good.
I think it's just simply the dynamics of having 2 extremely large relationships that are finally slowing down.
Yes.
The other thing I might add Tim is the strategy we've taken where we have built up globally where we own our own software and can control the quality of it we use -- our people are the ones that use it so we can control the reputation and the quality of the work that's done I think appeals very much to the corporate buyers who are looking to pay a fair price to look into buy in large quantities and need to have the response in terms of scale and footprint that the larger players can provide.
So I think in that respect we placed a large bet.
And we think we're poised for that bet to pay off.
Yes.
Tim we just replaced a significant competitor in a major Fortune 100-size company that the switch-out was because of quality and scale and ability to deliver.
Research Division</strong> And does the second half guidance assume that the - -- those major cases continue to roll off? And then are we going to -- are we -- as we look to '13 should we be at a point where this won't be as much of an issue or will the winddown to those...
We -- in '13 it should not be as much of an issue.
We would expect the one relationship to be down to an immaterial level very quickly.
The other one is a little harder to call.
While it's diminishing in scale there are -- there are sort of issues on the horizon that have now arisen for that client.
And depending on how the client defends -- decides to defend itself in those issues that might put a floor under the decline for a while to where you might even benefit a little bit for some unplanned business from that over maybe the first and second [indiscernible] for next year.
But I think overall we would expect those not to be material next year.
And we will go next to Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First on the Corporate Financing/Restructuring segment the charge there in the quarter relative to the savings significantly higher charge relative to some of the other segments.
Can you just talk about why that is and why not more leverage from the charge? It's Dennis again.
It was a decision that we made on a very senior person in there and it was an expensive decision but we decided it was the best long-term decision to make.
And so without going into a lot of detail that that's the reason for the high relationship to the low number of people.
Our team that's doing a great job of running corporate finance felt that they needed to move in a different direction.
And therefore they need to make a leadership change in conjunction with taking the charge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- still on that segment can you talk about the level of success fees in the quarter? And you talked previously about being in the $100 million to $110 million range in that business.
It's been above that for 2 quarters in a row now.
Is the outlook now $110 million to $120 million for the rest of the year? Or how should we think about that? Well look I think we've had a good -- we've probably taken share in at least North America in an environment where clearly everybody is hanging on in an election year and trying not to put companies under trying their hardest to keep companies alive.
So the work that's out there we've been doing a great job in either representing the debtor or the creditor side of the work number one.
Number two we've had a very good year in Latin America and we expect simply that the macro issues that are down there of the tremendous velocity capital coming into -- in some instances in mature markets will bode well for us to help fix and solve some of the problems that develop.
I think our feeling certainly is that Europe is eventually going to have to pay the piper that we keep reading about the governments keep reading about the currency.
But at the end of the day the banks are pulling in their horns because of the lack of capital.
There's a low velocity of lending and you have an awful lot of companies that are distressed.
And so we feel we're very well positioned through the expansion that we made in our operations in Spain and Germany.
And we're looking to continue to expand restructuring over there.
I would say we would view restructuring somewhat of empiric statement as an upside potential in the forecast.
We clearly could benefit from some problems that we see are percolating not only in our market domestically here but in other parts of the world.
And next year depending on obviously the liquidity that is flushed into the market probably by the Europeans it could be a very busy year for them.
As Jack said in his speech we are hearing from a lot of the hedge funds that they are positioning themselves to be a player next year in buying debt and buying assets off the bank balance sheets because they feel the banks are finally going to be forced to look to an external means to clean up their balance sheets.
So we would view restructuring as an upside.
Given the economic forecast that you and all of us are looking at right now there's sort of not much going on in North America some excesses in Latin America and serious problems in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly just to follow up on Tim's question some very large technology players getting into the e-discovery space.
Longer term are you guys going to have to look to partner or do something to add some scale to the perception of that business? Or do you feel that you can compete as a standalone in that market? Well I think on a quality basis we definitely feel that way.
We just as I mentioned to Tim took a very big client away from a very large -- larger-than-us type of competitor.
And it was on a quality issue.
I think that -- look I think that Jack said it right.
We like the hybrid offering.
We like the fact that we're offering a technology solution that can be proprietarily keyed to the client needs by people who are experts in using the technology and it's just not an off-the-shelf type of product.
We are excited by the response from the industry analysts so far and from the customers that are trying our new Ringtail release.
We think that it is a significant step-up for us on usability user friendliness and feature-set capabilities.
So I think -- we feel we're well positioned to compete.
We feel we're winning in the market that we're trying to play in which is in the upper end.
And we feel -- again as these 2 big accounts burn off then you basically are replenishing them that towards the end of the year as Jack said that run rate's going to increase and we expect 2013 to be a good year.
Also I think -- remember that group benefits significantly as well from capital markets work especially M&amp;A and second requests.
And our economists have never had more sort of perspective backlog engagements than they have.
Now you can turn around and say maybe a lot of the companies are simply voyeurs and they're looking to deals.
They want to make sure if they make a move on it that they can get it approved in either Brussels or Washington.
But if there's any kind of an indicator either after the election when there's some degree of stability or predictability or after maybe more settling down in the European marketplace I think a lot of those are going to mature and Technology is going to benefit from those second requests because they tend to be large.
They tend to be intense and short term and we would expect a lot of those to probably fall in 2013.
If I could add one thing to that.
The legal market where we've been involved for -- the company is almost 30 years old now has some idiosyncrasies or quirks.
And one of the tremendous assets we have is the people in our Technology business.
Because as we move -- one of the focuses of the business as you well know is in that area of discovery where you do the predictive coating which where you hope to replace manual and people with technology.
And that's not just a matter of having the best programmers or whatever it really is a matter of the translation of the technology into the legal business where judges and others want to hear intellectual capital opine as to the dependability and the predictability of moving that process from manual into technology.
That's a piece we have -- that makes us different from other areas where you have the typical consolidation of technology into bigger players who can get more leverage out of shrink-wrapping the products.
So you're never going to divorce this business from that and especially in the next couple of years as the world moves from manual and people solutions to technology solutions.
That's really something important.
So your question was kind of couched do we need to partner with somebody who's a bigger player? I think quite possibly some of them are going to need to partner with us in terms of the reception of their products to attack that portion of the market.
And we will go next to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> In your second quarter in the corp fin/restructuring was there any significant completion fees? And do you have the $5 million completion fee for Lehman contemplated in your second half guidance or in your 2012 guidance? And second can you just talk about free cash flow for 2012? It looks a little bit weaker than the first half of '11.
It looks like accounts receivable has gone up.
Can you just talk about what you think about free cash flow and accounts receivable in the back half? The answer was we had no material success fees in the quarter that would be out of the norm.
And as of right now our feeling is that the Lehman fee most likely is going to fall into 2013.
As far as the cash flows I'll let Roger elaborate on that.
I think the major impact on cash is the growth of our economic segment the bulk of which are almost always hired through a law firm for a wide variety of reasons.
And that's just simply as an industry tends to be a slower collection cycle.
On the other hand it's de minimis bad debt.
So it's money good but it's simply as they grow it simply stretches our days out.
And with the best collection that we normally have is in Corporate Finance and that's normally driven because a court controls it and they're paying you on a regular basis.
And if that group declines it's now starting to pick back up that just again automatically pulled the days down.
So Roger you might want to elaborate? Yes.
I think our days outstanding -- as Dennis mentioned beginning last year -- the middle of last year we spoke about the fact that we had some shifting mixes as our -- of our businesses in the relative days outstanding profile that those businesses had.
With some of the business in Corporate Finance in the North American markets changing from sort of the grayer bankruptcy court control payments to debtor side as we heard and also Asia-Pacific having -- and the bankruptcy or restructuring business having a different profile it had a longer payment as well.
Also the mix as Dennis mentioned as Economic Consulting becomes a more significant portion of the total that their  longer -- typically longer DSL or pay cycles shift to corporate DSOs.
So we've had -- that's been the primary shift.
It started last year.
It's mostly the case completed that shift but we've had FLC as it's become a bit more in that cycle like Economic Consulting we've seen our DSOs move up a little bit.
I think as you look forward into the remainder of the year the fourth quarter is always our strongest cash-collection quarter.
I think the third quarter that's going to be a focus as well.
So I would expect our free cash flow to be across the full year in light of the total results of the company being a little flatter than we expected being relatively consistent with what was expected for free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> So can you just remind me what was expected for free cash flow? You've given a pretty tight EPS guidance range.
So can you give us a operating cash flow or free cash flow range? Well we haven't historically disclosed free cash flow as a metric but our cash flow from operations -- let me tell you what -- I think you're looking at probably in the range of $150 million to $175 million.
And we'll go next to Joseph Foresi with Janie Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you guys could talk about -- you mentioned the catalysts for 2013 that were in the pipeline.
I think you talked about 3 liability SEC and then some discovery engagements.
I'm wondering if you could talk about how we should think about those as -- maybe you can give us some framework around the size of them versus other engagements that you've had in the past and the tale on them.
Any indication of what they can mean for your -- I know it's early to ask about numbers but what they can mean for your business? It's Dennis again.
I'll try to start off.
I think from the point of economics that one we should look at simply the backlog of the engagements that we're getting on a prospective basis for M&amp;A.
And as Jack said in his speech these are really sort of "take a look at this for us" type of engagements.
Can we get this approved if we make this move or if we and this other company decide to get together.
So I think if that starts to shake loose given the sheer number that we've been retained on then that really heats up.
That's significant revenue that would rival -- some of those would rival the big deals that we're working on last year which were significant revenue generators.
And that would have a major impact on that group.
The other is I think so far we've gotten approximately 20 engagements in predominantly e con in LIBOR.
I think it's too early to understand where that's going to go.
I think we've heard arguments that it's Armageddon for a bunch of these banks given the impact that LIBOR pricing had on people buying investments [indiscernible] and that the civil lawsuits are going to be massive not even counting the governmental issues.
Most of that right now is in governmental investigation with a lot of civil lawsuits being filed.
So the civil lawsuits will clearly wait to see the result of the governmental investigation whether or not you have banks resisting whether the government investigations turn criminal or whether they almost all -- or whether they get settled.
But that has the potential to be very big.
I think it will impact us across more other segments than just e con.
But the majority of our engagements right now are in e con.
In FLC we're seeing significant growth in our global GRIP practice which is our special investigation practice.
A lot of that is driven by institutional investors that are moving money into new areas of the world that feel they need a much different type of diligence done on the investment or on the potential partners or companies that they're investing in.
And we're seeing a pickup significantly in Latin America and Asia continued growth.
And we're also seeing significant business now being generated in Central Europe in a lot of the old Soviet republics and down in Africa and the Middle East.
So that looks very good.
I think we would expect -- just normally when an election ends 1 or 2 things happen.
You have the incumbent return and a lot of things that were on people's plates to launch as far as investigations or litigations come to fruition.
If the incumbent has not returned then a lot of those people are moving out and you'll have a hiatus as new people come in.
But then you'll have new interest new energy.
And so I would say the election one way or the other is going to help us.
If the incumbent comes in it might be a little bit faster.
If it's a new group coming in it might be the second half of next year.
But just simply getting out of this election cycle where so much of the enforcement agencies sit on their hands to see what's going to happen will be a help.
I think upside which may not be a great story for the rest of the world is restructuring.
And it is clearly building.
It is moving off of the floor.
We're not trying to declare that we're in a frothy restructuring market yet but we are certainly seeing signs of increased activity as I've said before in other parts of the world.
And again I think the one area that's very difficult for us to forecast is the capital markets.
And we are the biggest player in Europe in the capital markets in communications.
And clearly if that's just solidifies and stops declining in volume the way it has in the last 3 years then we'll be a beneficiary.
If it increases then we should have major upside leverage to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in just looking -- I'm curious -- investors have often looked at FTI as sort of a stock that performs when the economy is at one way or the other either the extreme of a negative or the extreme of a positive.
I wonder if you could talk about what would give them more comfort especially at present levels that this is a business that can outperform when the economy sort of waffles.
And I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about that.
And have you seen any fundamental shifts in the way that practices go to market? Number one go back and look at our numbers in 2007 and compare them to whatever peer numbers you can get.
And look at our growth from 2007 even today be in earnings cash flow and revenues and look at the other companies.
I mean a lot of the other companies last year showed good quarter-to-quarter numbers but they were comp-ing horrible quarters and some of them haven't returned to the profitability that they had in 2007.
But I would say look at our numbers over what has been described as the great recession.
And I think what you'll see is we continued to grow.
We continued to increase profitability.
We did not go backwards.
And so I think that's probably one of the best ways of looking forward.
That if in fact things slowed down significantly we will do well.
I think 5 years from 2000 to 2007 we had spectacular growth.
And clearly we've benefited from upmarkets so we wouldn't argue that we don't do well in upmarkets.
And I think right now -- we made bets 3 years ago globally.
We're sticking with those bets.
We are growing globally.
And I think long term it's going to pay off for our investors significantly.
But you have to stick with these bets even in the face of tough economic times.
Because the worst thing you could do is to turn around and abort a significant strategy that we all believe is not only necessary to serve our clients but to in the best long-term interest to building the enterprise.
So I think our numbers over the great recession and our numbers prior to that pretty much speak for themselves that there hasn't been that much of a material change if anything and we've probably balanced even better good times to bad times.
And I think that clearly the argument that if you get sort of stuck in the middle -- you get stuck in middle results probably has some validity because you can just look at some of the groups are balancing out the declines than other groups.
So we're not down 10% 15% 20% across the whole company.
We're about breakeven and flat revenue-wise when you count currency.
So I think the numbers speak for themselves especially when you compare them to other companies and you realize that a lot of those companies have yet to see the level of profitability they achieved to 2007.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question any thoughts -- I mean are we done with the restructuring charges for this year? Or do you expect anything going forward? We could have some minor -- I mean we -- we're consolidating offices in certain cities where because of acquisitions and things we ended up with 2 and 3 offices.
And we're trying to consolidate that just more efficiency and then to eliminate redundant office space.
If there's a chance you'll see some come through but it would not be anywhere near the scale of what you saw.
And it would really be derivative of what we did just it would be an action that we couldn't get finished in the second quarter that might leak into the third but if long term it would have a positive cash flow and positive GAAP earnings impact.
Yes.
To be clear facilities not people.
Yes.
And we will go next to Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
I just wonder if you look at kind of the revenue adjustment relative to earnings it's clearly more in the earnings side relative to revenue.
I just wanted to get a sense is that more a function of just more confidence in the 2013 outlook that you're keeping the cost structure more intact? Or was it just a leverage in the model? And just any thoughts around segment contribution as we think about back-half 2012.
And I know it's obviously early for 2013 but just how you're thinking about 2013 across a couple of the segments if you would.
Well I think again we are as conscious of operating leverage as anyone which is one of the reasons why we just took the charge.
I think that some of the expenses R&amp;D for example marketing -- I mean you're not going to cut.
I mean you need them for long-term enterprise growth.
The buildup of our support systems and the buildup of our operations in Asia and Latin America it is not cheap to do that.
On the other hand we're really getting revenue numbers and scale out there to where these operate significant earnings contributors to us.
And then we digested a very difficult but what's turning out to be a very good acquisition over the year in LECG.
And that was not inexpensive the way we had to do it.
We sort of had to pull it out and replicate it.
It was getting all the people but not getting any of the infrastructure or anything.
And I think that's now lining out.
And Roger any granular comments on this? Well I think in one respect as we saw in the first quarter the SG&amp;A was significantly over the prior year and that -- some of that built because of LECG as was mentioned bringing them in and some of that for the investments.
So some of that leverage difference between the revenue and the earnings was built into the Q1 results.
As you look at sort of the leverage in the SG&amp;A across the back half of the year I think you would expect to see that run consistent to what we saw in Q2.
And then Roger just how much within the SG&amp;A is kind of investment if you would overall in 2012 versus '11 if you could just give us a sense of that? I think in one sense everything we do in the infrastructure of the firm is investment because it's all built to support.
In terms of enhanced investment if you look at Q -- at 2012 versus 2011 the things that you see that impacted SG&amp;A in an increased fashion was one as I said was the full year effect of LECG the full year effect of the growth in our Asia operations.
We brought online in the middle of last year our Asia data operation center our shared services center.
So we moved our teams into -- in combined locations.
So all of that occurred in sort of in the middle and late second quarter of last year.
That's all increased investment.
I think that you'll probably -- the things we spoke about in Q1 that impacted Q1 some of the wrapping up of our website completion some of the marketing programs our leadership program that we referenced that time those where all investment in '12 relative to '11.
But now I think as you look forward for the remainder of the year I think you'd expect to see a relatively consistent SG&amp;A expense line versus Q2.
And we will go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is regarding your own capital deployment.
You've got a share repurchase that you authorized I think just a couple of months ago.
And earlier in the year maybe it was even exiting last year I think that you had expected kind of this year to be one of industry consolidation and wondering what you think your role in that may be if you still think it's the case.
It's Dennis Tobey.
Number one we did retire our convert which was about $150 million.
We retired at approximately half out of just existing cash and to be prudent half out of taking the line down for $75 million.
The plan would be as quickly as possible we would pay that $75 million off in the line with specifics of the normal cash flow that came in.
So we reduced debt and therefore you could argue increased capacity by $150 million once we exit the line.
The company is extremely well positioned to access the capital markets.
Obviously you are well aware of the cost of capital in the debt markets right now.
Our debt is rated very attractively institutional investors on the yield basis.
And to end -- so once we feel we can get the capital for whatever we need be it share repurchases or acquisitions; and two we intend to be part of the group to consolidate the industry.
And we are in discussions as we normally are with numerous parties about ways of consolidating the industry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I had a follow-up question on the potential for the LIBOR investigation.
Just to play devil's advocate for a second while I understand the magnitude of the financial instruments that are impacted by LIBOR how hard do you think do these regulators really want to zap capital and fine money-center banks at this point in the economic environment? Tobey I don't have a crystal ball.
Number one I think it's hard to look at one bank and fine them hundreds of million of dollars and then look at the guys on the other side of the e-mail trail and not do something to them.
So I just think that there is a quid pro quo that probably exists.
I think Deutsche Bank came out with a statement sort of saying "Well yeah we know we have people in the company that didn't act right but they're down low in the organization.
It wasn't the top guys." So I think you're seeing banks because they know this is all going to be discovered start to fess up.
I think -- I don't disagree the regulators don't want to weaken the banks anymore but I think the real business for us is going to be on the civil litigation.
I think Warren Buffett came out and said himself.
He said "I've owned on or off more than $1 billion of auction-rate preferreds in Berkshire Hathaway for the last 10 years." And he said "If they've been mispriced by 0.25 point for 10 years that's real money." So I think if you have big institutional investors that are buying paper that is priced off of what these guys do and as the governments do these investigations what they find it doesn't tend to look better it tends to look worse and they tend to get a hold of some of these individuals and they get them to turn against their own companies and turn against the guys who are on the other side of the e-mail chat or et cetera.
So I don't think we pretend to understand how aggressively the governments want to go against the banks.
I think now they're sort of locked in a corner where they have to number one.
And in Europe this has become a big political football.
So you do have a lot of political parties over there that are not bank friendly that are sitting back and saying "This is straw that broke the camel's back.
These guys we knew they were cheating and everything and now they're cheating in one of the main things that prices investments." So I think the civil side of this could be big.
A regulatory side I think will have some degree of parity with what we saw with Barclays because I don't know how they're going to be able to do nothing to the other banks especially when they've got e-mails where Barclays guys were talking to the other banks to collude on the rates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 follow-ups.
One could you assess what you think your market share might be in those LIBOR investigations? And also comment whether you think your international footprint and strong London presence has been key in winning those assignments.
And then for Roger the cash flow from operations that you cited of $150 million to $175 million is that an annual number? So that if we look at the negative seasonal cash flow year-to-date it would be -- it would kind of be a back-end-heavy year above that $150 million to $175 million to kind of get you to the full-year number.
As far as speculating on our share I don't have any ability to do that.
Obviously we have been retained very quickly.
And especially some of the named expert economists because I think the defense teams were trying to make sure they got the best very quickly to put on their defense teams.
I think having a significant operation in London certainly didn't hurt although our retentions are both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
And then finally Roger I'll yield to you on the last question.
Right.
I think that is an annualized number.
If you look at last year for example we generated $185 million of cash flow from operations in Qs 3 and 4 of '11.
As you know the first quarter of each year because of bonus payments and those types of things typically is a quarter where we don't generate cash flow from operations.
So we would expect to have our typical sort of operations on that level and have strong cash flow from operations in Qs 3 and Q4 to get us to that level across the full year.
And we will go next to David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> First on the slowdown in enforcement is kind of similar to what I remember from 4 years ago but different certainly than I think than from what we remember from 8 years ago.
Obviously this is a closer election but is it as simple as just getting through the election for things to pick back up? Or are folks already out there potentially circulating resumes in which case there's still a lag even if the incumbents stays in? Yes.
David it's a good question.
I -- there clearly are people that their resumes were out 4 years no matter who wins they think is enough in public service and they want to capitalize on their Washington relationships while they're still fresh in whatever professional group they go into.
So I think you will see attrition even if the incumbent is reelected.
And on the other hand you do have pent-up investigations.
You have things that are being carried on that no matter who would come in one the leadership would probably replace faster by the incumbents.
And two you would have a group of people ready to pull the trigger and go on things where if you have a change then I think you have more one you probably have a little longer lag to sort of fill up the top group.
You have more resignations for obvious reasons.
And you probably have more of just a practical political philosophical assessment of what they're looking at on an enforcement and on an investigative basis.
So I'm sure even if Obama wins there could be some lag in some departments because you're right there are people who have put them on notice that they're not coming back or have already resigned.
But I think I'm not trying to say how to root but it might be a little faster in moving forward with what they have pent up versus a new administration coming in.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And if you could just follow on through that timetable.
The thinking was I think you said earlier that for new administration it could be into the second half of next year.
I think that's what happened with Obama.
I think it took him about 6 months at least to get a lot of the agencies populated to get leadership approved and to get them cranked up and make a philosophical change from the prior administration.
LLC</strong> Got you.
One other quick one.
On the Technology side can you speak to sort of what you've seen the issue of pricing versus volume? How much of a decline was maybe price versus volume if there's an easy way to call that out? Well I think it's not easy.
I think the volume has increased in hosting.
The pricing has gone down.
That's sort of the same pattern we've seen over again.
And that's very very market driven.
I think that in the big jobs we're seeing pricing start to solidify second quarter over first quarter to where a bunch of the jobs it seems to be less of a consideration to these big clients than it is the ability to deliver and produce.
So I think we're seeing some firming Q2 over Q1 as Jack said and yet a continued decline but then a continued match with increased volumes in hosting.
And we will go next to Jim Janesky with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you look at the your outlook for the Corporate Finance and Restructuring segment you had -- over the last 6 months talked about maybe the middle of 2013 where towards the end of 2013 it looks like your expectation for that timetable might have moved up a bit depending upon what happens over the next 4 or 5 months yet you took the largest restructuring charge in that segment.
Was that because it was like you had talked about the 1 or 2 individuals that skewed that number is that correct? Well Jim it's Dennis.
The charge there is not related to our expectation of the market.
The charge was related to a change in leadership and the individual that generated the bulk of the charge with a very high leader.
It was something we decided we needed to move in a different direction.
And it accelerated a lot of equity that the person had because they were terminated and it was the equity acceleration that drove the magnitude of the charge.
So that charge is not related to an expectation of performance by that group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now on the flip side there -- you took charges in a couple of other segments like FLC and Tech that's going to result in outsized savings as you move forward.
And you said -- was that mainly due to your comment about voluntary attrition? And if so why did they leave? I'll let -- let's let Roger answer that on a granular basis.
Yes.
I think first and foremost the bulk of the charge is related to the individuals who were terminated without cause in the -- over the quarter.
The bulk of those being the last days of the quarter.
But when you are identifying that situation as FLC and Technology were during the quarter they also take advantage of ways that people can be terminated that aren't a termination without cause.
So we group that under the voluntary terminations.
They also in the FLC situation were able to in speaking with some of their people reduce fixed levels of compensation during this period.
So when you bring all of those 3 things together the terminations without cause the sort of the voluntary terminations and the other fixed salary adjustments you get the size savings that you did relative to the charge.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Shifting to the Technology segment there have been some companies in this space recently that reported pretty weak results but were more focused on document review than electronic discovery I would say.
Could -- what's your outlook for the 2 different markets and especially when there is going to be more and more pressure on speed and the ability to review more documents per hour? I'll start off.
I think number one Jack put it very clearly that the big leap in the Technology appears to be moving towards predictive coding.
And clearly -- so you're literally setting up a database that allows itself to be managed on a technological basis more efficiently.
You have the coding on a predictive basis to where those documents could be culled much easier.
They can be produced much easier.
There still needs to be obviously eyeballs on them at the end for final judgment.
And I think the main thing there is convincing the courts and the various parties that using this statistical algorithms matched up with the predictive coding reduces an acceptable search and result of a high end of percentage of accuracy to replace sort of the effort to get 100% right and have an awful lot of hands on screens or document-type of reviewing.
I'm not trying to say document review is going away.
It certainly is going to be there.
I think that the whole area of how we apply technology in the courtroom to this is changing very very rapidly.
And so much of it is driven by the sheer explosion of electronic information and the costs involved in trying to find investigate and produce that information.
So I think that more and more of the search and the hosting and the retrieval will be done technologically.
Less and less in our opinion will be done with human touch with more of the human touch coming at the end of the cycle.
But I think right now we know where it's going.
Predicting how rapidly it's going to get there is a little difficult.
We feel we are very well positioned for the transition.
So we operate very very well with document reviewers.
Our acuity accelerates the efficiency of document reviewers.
So it's a product being used by document review companies as we speak to accelerate their efficiency.
And clearly with predictive coding and the increased efficacy of the technology I think you're going to see more and more of review done by the systems and not done by people.
Yes.
Also the other thing is the fact that there is so little major M&amp;A work going on in terms of actual transactions can't affect just us.
I mean it's got to be across the market.
And those document reviews and the second-request cases are one of the quickest and most dial-moving things you can have.
So I wouldn't discount that as a factor across everybody in the quarter.
And with no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the conference back to Jack Dunn for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay great.
Well I'd like to again thank everybody for being with us this morning and today.
And we will look forward to speaking to you at our next conference.
And I'm sure we'll be speaking to many of you now that our quiet period is over and we can talk.
So we look forward to that.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mollie Hawkes.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's third quarter 2012 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer of FTI Consulting.
Jack please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you Mollie and welcome and good morning to everyone or good afternoon depending on where you are.
With me today on the call are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister our Chairman of North America.
As is our normal practice I won't bother to recite the press release but will provide a brief overview of the quarter and a couple of key points as it occurs to us and then turn it over to Roger for discussion of a couple of items in the quarter and on the radar screen and then most importantly turn it over to you for your questions.
First however on behalf of our almost 4 000 colleagues around the globe I would like to express our hopes for a speedy recovery for those who have been impacted by Hurricane Sandy over the last week.
Also a sincere thank you to many of my colleagues across the world who have supported those on the East Coast during their time of need.
As you know FTI Consulting has offices in Maryland Massachusetts New Jersey New York and Washington DC so many of our employees and their families as well as numerous clients have been directly impacted by the storm.
We know it will take some time before life returns to normal but we are glad that our employees are safe and our thoughts are with those of you who are dealing with the cleanup process and there'll be a little bit more on that later on.
As we stated in our press release third quarter results were in line with our expectations and our recent guidance.
As anticipated the quarter proved to be a tough comparison to last year's record quarter of $414 million in revenues 11% organic growth and the completion of a very -- the completion of the integration of a very very successful acquisition.
At that time like many we were very optimistic and believed there were signs that the economy not just here but globally had changed and was on the mend and we saw excellent results clearly across the board and around the world.
Now 12 months later it's interesting to note that certain can't-miss economies just a year ago such as China and Brazil are facing some different challenges than that of the year-ago runaway growth while other parts of the global economy particularly other parts of South America are seeing much better prospects.
When France enacted an income tax yesterday -- income tax cut yesterday it seems that the only 2 certainties remaining in life now are death and unrest in Greece.
With regard to our performance for the quarter revenues were $386 million.
Adjusted EBITDA was $62.3 million or 16.1% of revenues.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.60.
Net cash provided by operating activities in the quarter was a healthy $70.9 million compared to $59.7 million in the prior year quarter and cash collections were strong at approximately $378 million.
In general our results reflected what you might expect from around the globe as our diverse platform of service offerings pretty much reflected the markets in which they were provided.
As seems to continue to be the case our results were led by solid performance in Economic Consulting and Corporate Finance/Restructuring.
In Economic Consulting results were driven by continued strong performance in our antitrust litigation financial economics international arbitration and regulatory consulting practices particularly in energy and transportation as our expertise depth and global reach in these fields continued to draw the world's top economic and financial talent to our firm.
While there was possibly some slowing in the rate of new case openings in M&amp;A our retentions in that area remain at record levels which bodes very well for the future as those cases hopefully will turn into actions and would benefit our entire company.
In Corporate Finance/Restructuring we again met the high end of our quarterly run rate expectations at around $110 million.
We saw the mix between success fees and chargeable hours shift a little bit perhaps as a result of a market shift to alternative fees and that was in North American bankruptcy and restructuring.
And not unexpectedly we saw demand increase for our health care services.
Also not unexpected was real estate continued to be slow.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting we saw strengthening demand in our EMEA-based Global Risk &amp; Investigations Practice which we refer to as GRIP and strong contributions from new senior hires.
Our Latin American GRIP practice also saw strength with new engagements in Brazil and Colombia.
Core North America was down year-over-year including our enterprise data analytics practice as several of the mega-cases that were at their high points last year have been tapering off or ending in the intervening 12 months.
In Technology pricing continues to be competitive while the investment in our sales force seems to be paying off as the rate of new case openings has been increasing but we just don't have the big ones that we had seen last year and in prior -- and the prior -- and the year before that.
Also second request work in connection with M&amp;A was virtually nonexistent.
In Strategic Communications the prolonged global economic downturn and dearth of capital markets activity continued to challenge underlying performance as clients squeezed discretionary spending.
We also saw far fewer M&amp;A and natural resources-related projects in the Asia-Pacific region especially coming out of Australia and China than we saw last year.
From a geographic perspective as I mentioned the third quarter revenues seem well correlated to what you would expect from the headlines and reports of relative areas of prosperity and recession around the world.
In Latin America our business grew 27% and it's not surprising that 7 of our largest 10 cases there involved energy or natural resources.
What's additionally encouraging is that the majority of them involved multiple practices of the firm and this seems to be a healthy and growing trend.
Our Economic Consulting Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Corporate Finance/Restructuring activities in the region were all encouragingly strong.
In Asia-Pacific as the region turned from a vibrant market to a slower one as you might expect our mix of activity has also changed to match that trend.
We saw a significant decline in natural resources M&amp;A activity as I mentioned but at the same time we were very active in corruption investigations in areas like reverse mergers and investor fraud coming out of China and in corporate restructuring and recovery.
We believe our acquisition of KMQ in Australia will prove to be very timely as it adds 70 professionals with significant experience in energy real estate and health care in the region and this should help our other offices out there the small ones but rapidly growing ones in places like Singapore and Jakarta.
In EMEA again consistent with global headlines our results were impacted by the macroeconomic slowdown in the region.
Revenues decreased by about 4.7%.
Particularly impacted was our Strategic Communications segment.
Encouragingly our Technology and Forensic and Litigation Consulting segments saw year-over-year improvements in the region.
Of particular note was the performance of our GRIP practice where the presence of an outstanding business intelligence geographical political risk group in the hub of London has complemented and completed our GRIP practice on a worldwide basis there and hopefully will be the catalyst to not only more but bigger investigations as many of those types of investigations and FCPA investigations seem to emanate from the city.
North America again as you might expect saw revenues down 7% year-over-year as demand was impacted by the slowing economic environment and uncertain political and regulatory backdrop and certainly a lackluster capital markets.
In conclusion if there was a single theme emanating from the quarter it is that we continue to build and replace business from the record quarter a year ago which enjoyed not only the pent-up demand from a recovering economy but the high-water mark in a number of high-profile large investigations and cases that have since begun to taper off.
Looking forward in the U.S.
we have weathered the storm of the presidential election.
We'll shortly know whether our leaders will avoid the fiscal cliff or embrace it in a continuing game of chicken.
Either way at some point regulators will need to get on with regulating enforcers will need to get on with enforcing whistleblowers will need to get on with whistleblowing and CEOs will need to get on with the business of business including finance and acquisitions.
Speaking of acquisitions as I mentioned we continue to see healthy levels of new matters in Economic Consulting regarding preliminary and investigative work on potential acquisitions.
It would not be unusual in economies where organic growth has been and will continue to be challenged and balance sheets are strong to expect renewed vigor with respect to acquisitions once the regulatory and tax framework becomes a little clearer.
Acquisitions are where synergy and scale can help to replace some of the benefits that would ordinarily accrue from organic growth.
Certainly our experience would indicate that the groundwork is currently being laid by the buildup of cases we see in Economic Consulting.
As we have said many times while we have broad-based practices and a diversified geographic footprint the factors that can drive our company with the greatest immediate impact either parochially or globally are issues that have to do with liquidity; large investigations; and most of all with vibrant merger activity.
Such merger activity M&amp;A activity virtually touches every part of our company.
Certainly if there were a watchword for the fourth quarter it would be continuing caution and management of expenses.
In addition to the uncertainty of the global markets there is the lingering impact of Hurricane Sandy although it appears that many FTI colleagues consistent with performance during other times of duress have continued to serve clients in some cases through heroic hardships.
However we cannot be certain at this time how we will recover.
One of our office sites in New York was significantly damaged although there is -- there are certain deadlines on things where we can hope that amount -- certain amounts of work have to be done by certain dates so we know that our colleagues will rise to the occasion.
Again as we stated in our press release we will continue to invest in those areas where we believe we have significant advantages and can produce results.
This would include areas of domain expertise such as health care energy communications media and entertainment and insurance and in geographic opportunities such as the aforementioned investment in the Australian restructuring practice.
In addition we intend to continue to repurchase our stock under the $250-million share repurchase authorization that our board approved in June.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Roger to discuss some of the specifics of the quarter and a couple of items as we look forward to the end of the year.
Roger? Thank you Jack.
As Jack mentioned on October 2 FTI Consulting acquired certain assets of KMQ and this acquisition brought our Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment to Australia and added expertise in our energy real estate and health care industry solutions groups.
KMQ will also serve as a growth point to expand our other segments into the Australian market.
We see many opportunities to capitalize on the combination of KMQ's local presence and the solid reputation of FTI Consulting and FTI Consulting's global brand and deep expertise.
There are many restructuring opportunities in Australia right now particularly in Queensland and our expanded team in Australia has already started to work with our Corporate Finance/Restructuring team in Hong Kong and in the U.S.
to take advantage of these opportunities.
Beyond restructuring opportunities we also see strong prospects for leveraging our industry solutions in energy real estate and health care.
While we expect this acquisition to add approximately $5 million in revenues and approximately $1.2 million in adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter the amount of acquisition expenses that must be fully expensed in the fourth quarter will be greater than the adjusted EBITDA resulting in an adjusted earnings impact -- negative -- an adjusted earnings per share impact -- being negatively impacted by approximately $0.02 per share.
This expense is largely associated with the $2.5-million Australian stamp tax that must be paid on the acquisition.
On behalf of FTI Consulting I would like to welcome our new colleagues.
I look forward to working with them to advance our branded offering in the Asia-Pacific region.
As Jack also mentioned during the quarter ended September 30 we took a special charge totaling $2.8 million of which $400 000 was noncash.
This charge reflects further actions to reduce excess real estate capacity in 3 office locations.
These actions were initiated in the second quarter and recently completed.
We expect the savings from these actions in the fourth quarter to be approximately $200 000 and the savings in 2013 to be approximately $900 000.
And with that Jack I'll turn the call back to you.
All right.
At this point as always we'd like to get your questions so if we could now open it up to questions that will be great.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First on FLC could you just talk a little bit about what the pipeline for deals looks like there and how much you think that that has been impacted by the election cycle regulatory uncertainties et cetera? And just help us understand when that business can -- we could start to see some improvement there.
Yes it's Dennis.
The disputes business has actually been picking up business.
The financial investigation side as you can imagine in this year's cycle is where we've seen some of the slowdown.
And then our data transaction people have had several big cases that they're on that aren't going to go away slow down dramatically over the summer.
And we're starting to see some of those pick back up.
So in disputes we're definitely seeing a lot of new retentions.
In actually the FEDA business or the data analytics again we're starting to see some of these cases heat back up.
And we would anticipate that once everything gets sorted through that you get new enforcement people in place at Justice and some of the regulatory agencies that the investigation side which is starting to pick up some whistleblower-related cases over the last 60 days we'd really start to see some benefit for next year.
I think while clearly we can't predict in the fourth quarter the impact of Sandy on our clients in the Northeast and how quickly they're going to get back to normalcy which to a certain extent would drive how quickly our relations and business with them returns I have no doubt it will be a significant source of business for us next year.
I think the amount of dispute business related to insurance payments adjudications disputes is going to be significant.
It's probably one of the largest damage projections that I think any of us have seen.
I think we're only scratching the surface of estimates of the damage.
And clearly you're already seeing some reinsurance companies starting to argue over whether or not there should be the hurricane description applied to it which I think most of the people in the Northeast knows changes their self-insurance rate and in some cases there are obviously hurricane exclusions in policy which could change the coverage.
So I think we clearly anticipate that that will drive a lot of FLC work especially through our insurance industry group there in the first 6 months of next year and going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as you look out to 2013 where are the areas that you're seeing opportunities for potential hiring versus areas where the headcount should be relatively flat? Well I think clearly our GRIP business globally is growing dramatically especially out of Europe and they are hiring in the GRIP business in Europe as well as in South America.
South America is up almost across the board so in FLC alone -- and FLC as we are opening new office out in Asia are starting to man those offices and we're just in the beginnings of manning Jakarta and building out Singapore.
I would think in the U.S.
right now we're going to be very cautious because right now we feel we are properly manned.
We're always looking for new talent in the disputes area and I think it's really going to be sort of driven by how quickly we see the forensic investigation group come back.
Two industry areas which we are not alone in benefiting I'm aware but clearly we have very large reach is energy and health care.
As Jack said in his speech something like 7 out of our top 11 -- or whatever the number was down in Latin America are energy/extraction natural resource-related.
Our energy practice is growing here.
Our health care practice here in the U.S.
is over $100 million and we're definitely hiring in those 2 areas because those 2 areas one we realize what the macro drivers going forward in health care are going to be; and two energy seems to be immune on a global basis to whatever economic slowdown there is and clearly is in need for a lot of help.
We had a nice signature event earlier this month which was we were profiled in a press release that Shell did on an analysis of energy policy in the Middle East and North Africa.
And I think you're going to see more and more of a blend between our unique abilities on Economic Consulting and our governmental affairs practice as John Klick and others and Brian Kennedy coordinate to build an energy policy business that's global in nature.
So we are extremely excited about those possibilities and it seems for those of us that have some experience with the health care industry that regardless of whether there's a fiscal cliff or whatever one of the places where there's absolutely going to be an unlimited need for business advisory it's going to be in the health care whether it's hospitals doctors plans providers whatever.
That's going to be a vibrant area.
And the good news in each of those areas is we have a launching point as we look across back of the envelope at our firm of $100 million of practice or more and some really leading experts.
So those should be great areas for us.
And we will go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you kind of longer term.
What are your expectations to be able to grow your headcount? And what do you think your bill rate increases may look like over a kind of a bigger chunk of time? I'll try first Tobey.
It's Dennis.
I mean clearly we're going to grow our headcount in Asia and Latin America dramatically because I think the macro drivers are out there.
And as we're expanding into new countries new cities it's a matter of building mass and building capability.
So I think there -- and I think you'll see the application of capital from the firm besides obviously other tuck-in acquisitions.
You're going to see the application of capital in those 2 geographic areas because of demand curves.
So I think without a doubt we would see more than doubling in Asia and Latin America over the next 5 years.
And we think the demand is there.
We think the runway is there and we don't see any one in all honesty that has any kind of significant mind share lead to where we would be that concerned about being aggressively competitive.
I think you would see us grow headcount in Europe more on an opportunistic basis.
As I said we're definitely growing our investigative group over there.
I think you'll see restructuring grow as some of these nascent underlying issues are finally addressed in the various countries that we're all reading about.
And I think that you'll see us look opportunistically for deals on sort of a step-out basis where we see opportunities to broaden our position in Europe even in the face of what's probably going to be a choppy economy over there in the next 2 years.
We're finishing up our strategic plan for the next 5 years and we're looking very hard at our position in North America.
Obviously in some instances we have significant shares.
In others we have plenty of room to grow.
I think in E Con they have been doing a fabulous job on a global basis with expanding that expertise and I think you will continue to see them bringing the best and the brightest from around the world into that fold.
It has become a very very attractive place for the large -- for the big-name economists around the world to start working.
We're doing very well in spite of a very difficult market in Europe in our economics group over there and we're doing extremely well in South America in the economics group that we acquired from LECG a year ago.
So I would say you're going to see the operations at least double so maybe by implication an approximate double of the headcount in Latin America and Asia.
I think you'll see us be opportunistic in growing the areas where we're seeing key demand in spite of choppy markets in Europe and that would be in our investigative GRIP side as well as in our restructuring side.
I wouldn't be surprised if we didn't look to step out in Europe and take advantage of obviously what we're seeing as low valuations of potential deals.
I think in North America we'll pick our spots.
It will probably be driven Tobey more by industry grouping.
So it would be health care energy insurance are areas that we're already very strong in and we're seeing consistent demand in spite of a choppy economy.
Yes the GRIP has been a star for us over the last couple of years.
I mean there is no CEO in the world that doesn't want business intelligence about the competition about counterparties about political risks geographical risks.
And I think we shouldn't underestimate the addition of filling out the dance card with a significant and very well-respected group in London.
In addition to that group we added a team that specializes in anticorruption compliance and remediation.
So they would do things like monitorships.
They've done them across the continent.
And so that's really a platform that we're building out and I think you'll continue to see us add headcount there because we have plenty of room to grow because it is very much a boots-on-the-ground in-the-jurisdiction type of practice.
That's what distinguishes ours.
We don't do analysis from afar.
We actually have people that get on bus.
As one of my clients told me "You saved us because you had somebody actually get on a bicycle and go to a small town in the middle of China and get the original documents out which proved not to be what they reported to be." So that will be a place where we'll add headcount.
Yes and the second part of your question was on rates.
It's probably a more difficult one to answer.
I think in a lot of our enterprise-sensitive businesses restructuring crisis communications foreign corrupt practice work we don't really feel a lot of rate pressure globally.
It's certainly in pockets and we're not going to try to tell you that there aren't people that are competing seriously on rate.
In the more generalized dispute businesses and in some of the investigation businesses there is definite rate competition out there.
The law firms are feeling it.
The accounting firms seem to have been adopting a policy of very low rates as far as their quotes.
And I think the other thing Tobey that people are trying to figure out ourselves included is more and more jobs are coming in on an alternative fee basis.
And if you're successful the rates look extremely high.
If you don't necessarily hit all the milestones that are put out for the success fees then the rates could look like a substantial discount below your posted rate.
And I think again ourselves law firms people like that are now basically trying to make sure it that on a project management basis the projects are managed for the maximum efficiencies so that we can guarantee ourselves the rates that we deserve for the value that's being conveyed to the client.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question a relatively quick one.
Do you have any meaningful success fees that you know of that will hit the fourth quarter? The answer -- we get this question every time so I can answer it.
We had -- we did not get the General Motors success fee in the third quarter.
So that was not in the quarter.
And while we're confident we're going to get it soon -- I think it's still better than 50-50 that it would fall in the fourth quarter.
I think otherwise we would expect sort of a normal relationship of success fees in the fourth quarter to be there.
General Motors would change that impact but we still don't -- it's in the hands of the court when they finally make the final resolution which we know they're close to.
But that doesn't mean it will fall into this quarter.
It may fall into the first quarter.
Yes.
When we referenced success fees in the press release and also in my remarks it wasn't that it was a huge one.
It was to indicate that given our business -- as you know you have Michael Eisenband and his team who do our great Creditor Rights practice.
You have Ken Barker and Michael Biggs and their team on health care.
Both of those are very much models where you have retainers and a success fee at the end.
So it was really a -- it's an indication of potentially a change in business mix and our move towards alternative fees.
And our experience to date has been our success fees are every bit as profitable if not -- I guess the best way to say it is they're a win-win both for us and for the clients so we certainly will enjoy looking for that more as part of a stable business model than waiting for a Hail Mary to come in one quarter or another.
And we'll go next to David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question a follow-up a little bit on FLC.
Just curious on your insight on basically the outlook on growth from here.
Is it simply a function of the timing of investigations and government hiring which presumably corrects itself over the next few months as regulatory heads are replaced? Is it more the economy? Or do you think there's been some secular change over the last few years in the business as a whole? Probably all 3 David.
I think it's difficult.
I didn't mean that to be glib but I think it's difficult to try -- to then wait.
We are in particular at FLC coming off an extremely difficult quarter to comp.
And so the actual buildup in business this quarter and the buildup of business there over the year has not been that bad.
It has simply been fighting the headwind of several monster cases that you're aware of that have finally burnt off a couple of them which probably reached their zenith in billing in the third quarter of last year.
I think that in the regulatory area you're right and I think that you're going to see it pick up.
It has to.
I don't think this administration is coming back in with an idea that there's a public mandate that they regulate less.
They may not want to regulate more and they just may want to be a lot more aggressive about sort of the actions they started in first term.
I think in the disputes area where we're seeing good business come in I mean that is normally the area in all honesty that you see affected by the economy.
I think it has been down as you accurately put it the last couple of years.
I think we're seeing it creeping back up.
We are certainly seeing the MBS cases mature now to where they've been on the books for a while.
And now both in E Con and FLC our people are getting busy in those cases because on the civil side they're maturing because as you know a lot of the state and federal investigations are ending.
The fines are being paid.
The settlements are being made and that then triggers sort of the civil activity.
There is no doubt that in certain parts of the world we are seeing structural changes in the business.
And I think that the biggest probably is what's happening to the law firms in alternative fees with what's happening to a shift in the channel.
Where a lot of this business came through an indirect channel the law firm more and more is coming out of the General Counsel's office.
And so I think there they're looking for broader master services agreements broader reach broader relationships.
Clearly they're looking to save fee and I don't think that's going to go away.
I think again when it's -- that the enterprise problems when it's crisis type of problems big huge complex problems we're not seeing that.
But in the normal amount of business we are seeing a shift more and more into the General Counsel's office making key decisions looking for broader and deeper relationships master services agreements which are good for us given our reach and given the -- what we can.
But they're clearly looking for fee consideration in exchange for those contracts.
David this is your third trip to the rodeo with us.
You've been with us long enough to see us go through these cycles and it continually is bubble then restructuring and then investigation regulation and litigation.
And I go back to 2002 when we had the dot-com burst and we had all the work that we did on the restructuring side.
We had the Enrons the WorldComs.
And I think we're probably still in the litigation phase on Enron although I imagine any year now that will end.
Then in 2008 you saw us have a tremendous bubble and then you saw in 2008 in literally 3 months and through 2009 our restructuring business went up from -- I think it was almost -- the core business was up almost 60%.
And then now you're seeing -- in my opinion you're going to see as Dennis says the litigation phase on all the collateralized mortgage obligations and all those transactions and you're going to see the regulation phase and you're going to see all the trials that follow that.
What's interesting to me currently and why you see such an emphasis of us on Asia is because the last bubble was China.
And you're starting to see egregious cases that would not quite rival Madoff but they will be their own Madoff in a way.
And we're doing -- it's no accident that our restructuring business is significantly up there and that we've invested heavily in that.
It's no mystery that the SEC has focused people on looking at the deals of the reverse mergers and the other transactions that are coming out of the Chinese listings on the different markets around the world.
So I think you're going to see some very aggressive investigation work and very aggressive restructuring litigation work following that.
So that would be an additional view that I would see in terms of where some of the big business is going to be coming from in the next year or 2.
LLC</strong> Got it.
So I think all of that is to say that the drivers are still sort of there.
Some of it's timing; you've adjusted a little bit on the master service agreements; and at the end of the day Asia is probably a better growth market for you in the next 12 months than U.S.
Well it has the advantage of starting smaller and as I say having all the elements of a good old-fashioned fight so I think that's true to say.
But I do -- I personally believe that in the litigation phase of the -- of some of the excesses we saw leading up to 2008 I think our -- I think that will be good solid business for us.
They're just now getting to the discovery phases and going from some of the regulatory matters that are settling in.
You're seeing the civil lawsuits follow that and that -- those will be very big because they're not only going to be class actions by some disappointed investors.
You have big institutions looking at big institutions and governmental institutions looking at big institutions.
So I think there will probably be a pretty good market for FEDA and for our disputes.
FEDA which is our financial and enterprise data evaluation practice I think they'll be very healthy in the years coming on.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
One other simple one for Roger.
Interest income and other anything in there worth talking about on the other side? No I don't think anything specific.
Typically one of the things that swings that is foreign currency exchange in terms of balances on the balance sheet and that I think was fairly muted.
David one other way of addressing your question too on growth that we see coming in '13 there -- the E Con people in antitrust have more retentions than they've ever had in the history of the firm on a prospective basis looking at M&amp;A.
And I think we all know that there's not a lot of prospects for organic growth.
The balance sheets of a lot of these companies are very strong yet for some reason people just aren't pulling the trigger.
And we've talked to our colleagues in the investment banking communities in the M&amp;A and they are basically telling us the same thing.
They've never had more retentions never had more people looking at things and they've never been in a situation where none of these retentions have resulted in the actual consummation of a deal and therefore the triggering of a lot of work to get the deals done where obviously we and they make a lot of money.
If 1/3 of our retentions -- so assuming 2/3 don't work if 1/3 of the retentions come to bear our Economics group and our Technology group on the second requests and the FLC people in some post-merger integration work are going to be extremely busy.
And now that is a guess.
That's not a forecast.
But something has to give.
You just can't have these companies with earnings slowing down not a lot of organic growth available to them best debt markets ever unbelievable amount of cash on their balance sheets and looking at not one transaction but multiple transactions all just sit on their hands next year and do nothing.
So I would say if there's one sort of interesting indicator that could manifest itself across the board on 3 of the segments' business it clearly could be there.
And it would impact Strategic Communications too because obviously they do a lot of work surrounding M&amp;A transactions for either the targets or the acquirers.
And we'll go next to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of housekeeping questions.
What was the FX impact to revenue year-on-year in the third quarter? And also was the headcount growth in Corporate Finance/Restructuring was that from the KMQ acquisition? Is that included at the end of the quarter in the...
Yes the headcount growth was in health care and in Europe for I think obvious reasons.
Health care the drivers there are very strong and in Europe we continue to start to be brought in in the beginnings of trying to solve some of these complex situations over there and so they've been hiring there.
Roger I think you have the FX...
Yes to be more -- and just what Dennis said was correct.
The KMQ closed October 2.
Those numbers headcounts otherwise are not in the September 30 year -- month-end -- or quarter-end quarter [ph] numbers so that headcount is not there.
The impact on revenue from FX was about a negative 0.8% and it had negligible impact at the EBITDA or earnings per share lines.
Research Division</strong> So what does Corporate Finance/Restructuring look like at the end of December with KMQ? I think you can add about $5 million in revenue in the quarter for KMQ and about $1.2 million in EBITDA.
And 70 people right Roger? 70 people right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Roger any -- I got 2 follow-ups.
Any -- do you want to narrow the $150 million to $175 million of operating free cash flow range at all with just one quarter left? And then just maybe Dennis or -- I guess Dennis as you look at Technology I'm not sure how you -- do you look at the business sort of at Acuity software document review? Or how do you split that business a little further than -- so we can understand it a little bit better.
Well I mean I think if you look -- I think the basic ratios for the use of our technology either on-demand license really haven't changed so it's still about a 60-40 mix of what we would consider technology usage through on-demand licensing or charging where we're actually using it as consultants in-job.
The other 40% to 30% is the consulting side.
So I mean we've been very happy with the new releases in Ringtail.
It has clearly made it more user-friendly.
The response -- the initial response we've gotten back from the industry analysts as well as the market is that it's very good.
Acuity has had a very good year although it has been used in some of these big giant accounts which are burning off.
And so it will be impacted by the fact that it has to replace 2 huge relationships with new business.
I think that the market in tech right now is trying to sort itself out.
There's been some very very big acquisitions.
We only have anecdotal data as to how they're doing.
We hear all the rumors that everybody else does about some of them working some of them not working and I think it has to sort itself out.
I think we feel very good concerning our Technology portfolio.
We continue to spend on R&amp;D.
And starting this year we've put a direct sales force in to more align that selling effort with what we would see in the technology businesses that we compete against and we think that sales force is starting to deliver good results now that they've been up and running for about 9 months.
So the biggest problem there is really they more than anyone have client burn-off and they have 0 almost second request work.
And I think second request work is very intense; very high-margin; as you know very short-term driven.
It's a compliance-based type of work but very high stakes.
And I go back to my comment.
If any of these retentions start to mature on the M&amp;A side we would expect to see that pick up.
Research Division</strong> And Dennis was there any revenue in the third quarter from those 2 big contracts that are winding down in Technology? Yes.
There was significantly less than what it was in the third quarter a year ago but there was revenue.
They were less than last year more than we thought.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Can you -- do you think this is the run rate now? Or do think it keeps going down? And if it does keep going down...
No I think our feeling is it will continue to go down.
I mean I think these cases have been tremendous cases for us but they're -- I've got a caveat.
Based off of what we see right now the path of litigation the path of investigation it should continue to go down.
All of that can change if something new develops.
I mean clearly we are intricately involved in both of these things and if something new where there's new production new issues come up then it could pick up again.
But I would say from a directional standpoint we would see these declining on a continued downward basis to where this time next year they shouldn't be a factor in the company.
Research Division</strong> Can you help us size what -- how big those 2 projects are? Well we don't do that for confidentiality reasons.
I mean some of you know who the clients are because we've been outed in some of them and we just don't give that kind of information out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Roger any -- do you want to narrow that $150 million to $175 million operating cash? Yes on the cash as everyone knows the fourth quarter is typically one of our strongest quarters.
We -- our third quarter we had good collections but we didn't narrow the DSOs at the rate that we would expect.
However we've had a good first part of the quarter on that.
So I think all things equal I'd say we're probably going to be more in the $140-million to $150-million range depending on cash collections of our receivables.
And we'll go next to Jeff Rossetti with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you guys are close to doing the -- maybe the next round of 5-year planning.
I wonder if you could just take a step back and give us some color on what you think the organic growth rate of the business is.
And any preliminary targets? There's been a lot of changes in the industry and as you guys have talked about in the call a lot of changes in just the fee structures et cetera.
Maybe you can give us an idea of what you think those numbers have adjusted to and again I'm not looking for any kind of guidance just rough...
No I mean we're actually well -- we're well on our way and we'll be presenting a fairly finished 5-year plan to our board coming up in December for approval in February.
I mean I think one in talking to our practitioners globally about 93% to 95% of them feel that without a lot of acquisitions there's no reason the company can't be at $2.5 billion in 5 years so that would be $1 billion in growth.
And I think if I did the math that's like a 6% to 8% compound growth rate.
So clearly our last 5-year plan we were growing organically more to -- at an 11% but we were coming off a basis that we're $500 million.
Now we're $1.550 billion to $1.6 billion.
I think that where you will see the company change is right now we're at about somewhere between a 75 -- 70-25 -- 75-25 to a maybe 70-30 type of relationship where 70% is North America and the balance is the rest of the world.
In 5 years you will see that number for the rest of the world go up significantly at least by 10 numbers 15 numbers.
So you'll see a lot -- the organic growth that you will see -- so I could have a scenario where if we don't do anything to broaden the base in Europe we don't do any significant acquisitions you might grow very low single digits in Europe and it might be -- you might see restructuring on a cyclical basis grow a lot but you might see some of the other areas fairly depressed simply because of the macro drivers in the market.
Depending on how we come back here in the States again you might see some of the groups growing more rapid than the others but again you can make a case for middle to lower single-digit growth.
There is no doubt in our mind we will be experiencing no matter what the economic cycles are in Asia and Latin America significant growth down in those areas.
That would be well up in double digits and -- because your basis one are much lower and two just the macro drivers.
And as Jack said in China it's a high-stakes game.
So the assignments aren't small.
They're very large.
And in Asia and in Latin America there isn't any significant players out there that we would be muscling for competition.
We feel we've got very good runway.
And while we're not trying to say there isn't good competition out there we're not afraid of it.
And so I don't think it would impede our growth.
So I think -- if you needed a range I would say low side globally 4% to 5%; high side 8-ish on an organic basis disproportionately driven by growth in Latin America and China.
The assumptions for Europe without acquisitions would be low-single-digit growth.
And for North America a lot of it will depend on what we see coming out of the governmental sector but again not looking for heroic growth there.
It could be sort of middle single digit.
But overall we feel pretty comfortable that with some acquisitions we can double the company in 5 to 6 years.
As I said without any significant acquisitions our SMDs feel there's another $1 billion worth of business to be had out there just through some hard work.
Yes.
I think the other thing that's coming is the fiscal cliff and it's not a question of a bunch of rich people having to pay a little higher tax.
I think as we face that I mean you look at some of the ramifications.
One area where we've been creeping up in our growth is in providing services to municipalities and to governmental organizations.
I mean you're talking about the military which means pensions which means the -- and municipalities where the hiring has been very bad and pension issues there.
So I think there are a number of factors that -- there's going to be -- the litigation disputes business has grown at plus or minus 4% since -- for 50 years.
The real issue is you have some fundamental changes perhaps in governmental and economic structure coming in the U.S.
If that happens that's where we make money because we advise clients regarding the smart way to do that and the challenges that arise from doing that.
So I think there's a -- I think that's one of the issues of doing a strategic plan right now following the Great Recession and right before at least some kind of resolution for good or ill of those issues.
So I think we'll have probably hopefully more to say about that.
As you know we put out our guidance at the end of the year in the first quarter.
So stay tuned for that but hopefully we'll have a few of those things resolved by that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just looking at the success fees and maybe kind of in tune with the discussion that we're having now I mean how have success fees grown as a percentage of your revenue? And how much do you think you'll -- it'll continue to grow going forward? It sounds like there's a business model shift taking place in some of your end markets in fee structures...
Yes.
The answer is it's stayed fairly -- it has stayed fairly consistent.
It's moved around but it's stayed fairly consistent.
As the revenues have continued to grow I mean obviously if you look at us I mean our revenues from 2007 to to date have grown dramatically where a lot of other people have had troughs and then have come back.
And it's pretty much stayed consistent 6% to 7% of revenues during that period of time.
The growth will accelerate we think because of basically a change to alternative fee structures and that isn't necessarily something that we're pioneering but it is certainly something that's not going away.
And so I think that you're going to have significant growth in that area.
I think we've all read articles where some of the leading law firms are saying that their business is now as high as 20% 25% alternative fees so not time -- not hourly based not time and material.
I don't see any reason why you wouldn't see us track to a certain extent some of their experiences.
And I think that a lot of companies as they take more and more of these decisions inside are very comfortable with success fee gain-sharing anyway you want to name it.
And they understand part of the quid pro quo is they need to shrink their relationships and have bigger and stronger relationships and have more of a partnering relationship than sort of a client-vendor relationship.
So I think that will grow.
I don't see any reason why -- I don't see anything that shows us that it would stop.
But for the last 6 7 years it really hasn't grown that much.
I think it's only now we're starting to see -- and more and more interesting that I think as our health care practice goes -- grows that is a model that has been accepted for years in health care practice and to where it's almost not even success fees as much as you simply have milestone-driven fees where you get a capitated fee and you might have 4 or 5 milestones over a 2-year period engagement and as you hit certain milestones increased fees are released to you.
Now if that's success I guess it is but it's much more sort of the way business is done there so...
I think I agree with Dennis.
I'd like to see it grow from that 2% or so area up to get to be around 6% or so or even more.
We'll be helped by that because a couple of the areas where success fees also come are in refinancings in terms of restructuring.
And obviously it's been a tough financial market.
And also in our Strategic Communications business in all their capital markets business there is a success fee component.
So I would think we'll be helped both by a change in mix in our business getting back to some more vibrant markets on that side and will also be changed by the mix within businesses where as Dennis says health care will be growing.
But inside restructuring we'll probably see more cases where the clients would like to see us as their partner in the success of the enterprise.
If you think about some of our businesses it's hard for expert witnesses to take success fees because it's not a good factor on the witness stand for the witness to say he has [indiscernible] the outcome.
And there are other businesses where it's not traditionally done but in most of them we're looking to work with our clients for these win-win situations.
And I'm sorry.
You had another question? Research Division</strong> Yes no I just wanted -- I mean it just seems like coming out of the economic downturn that a number of business models are being reevaluated.
And certainly on the consulting side you're seeing success fees become a bigger part.
And I was wondering if you look at your 5-year plan I mean what would you -- just within the top 2 or 3 what would you call out as your -- the changes to the business model that you're recognizing if they are there and how you would address those? It sounds like real estate is one.
It sounds like success fees is another but I'm just wondering if you're seeing the business model shift.
Really #1 is providing a solutions model to our clients as opposed to a restructuring or a strategic communications.
If you would see the enthusiasm around our people for instead of going and saying can I introduce you to somebody else and organizing as teams across industries that -- I think in terms of the inspiration and perspiration of our young people that's where it's focused because they think we really have something unique compared to other providers.
So that would be -- we can go around the table and each have a pick.
That would be my pick.
Dennis? Well I think the biggest change is clearly the problems are globalized.
And I think that even for mid-cap type of companies their problems don't stop anymore at the shores.
And so I think that's clearly one of the biggest changes that we see in our client relationships where our problem may emanate here or it may emanate in Europe but then it spreads across their footprint which is now global.
I think the -- again I think there is no doubt in our mind that certain relationships are going to change and become more partnering relationships.
I think it's a little difficult to put a number on it or put a percentage.
I think that as Jack said it is still very tough to have any kind of gain-sharing if you're rendering expert opinion.
It is almost an immediate sort of red flag for the impeachment of the credibility of the work.
But I think in restructuring we're certainly seeing -- on the creditor side 5 6 years ago you would have never heard of success fees there.
Now you're starting to see that as an everyday thing that's coming in.
I think we already talked about health care where we expect a lot of money to be spent and we expect that it's going to be on a gain-sharing basis for the most part going forward.
And I think that certainly in general administrative type of investigation work things like that we are already signing master services agreements with huge global companies where it specifies a broad base of services that they would do with a built-in fee structure where we anticipate getting all the work or the vast majority of the work as part of the consideration for signing these market services agreements.
So I would say you'll see more master services agreements with the big global companies you'll see more work dependent upon your ability to solve problems offshore and I think you will see more success fees in certain parts of the segments.
David? The other factor that we're seeing is 5 years ago probably 60% or 70% of our business came through indirect channels so our very important relationships will continue with the banks and the law firms and so forth our friends and partners in helping solve client issues.
Five years from now we think that between the industry model and the nature of the solution services we're providing we'll be dealing much more directly with the C-Suites and the Boards of Directors of the Fortune 200 FTSE 100 type of companies around the world.
If we looked at our largest 10 engagements over the last year that's really what they have become is those direct relationships dealing with enterprise issues where the enterprise is the client not the law firm or the bank.
And Roger? I think I agree with Dennis.
I think it's going to be a shift to having corporates more involved and clients more involved in the relationship and the buying decisions of their consultants.
And that has some positive effects of sort of reducing the hunting range to identify the locations but it requires us to be more focused on what those clients see as value which I think comes back to the point that they're going to be looking for total solutions.
And we'll go next to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just 1 or 2 quick ones.
First on the forensics and I guess broadly can you just give us an update where turnover stands year-to-date? And just to be clear that any of the weakness there it's more in your view market-related than anything having to do with internal turnover or other issues like that.
It's Dave Bannister.
I was just working with Neal Hochberg on it the other day.
We have not lost significant producers or people who have generated significant business.
That's not a factor in any issue there.
We would say that we have customary turnover in terms of headcount again primarily the junior level.
We did make some sizing decisions earlier in the year where we unfortunately had to separate some very good folks who just weren't -- the markets they were operating in weren't producing at the level that we had hoped they would.
But I don't think that turnover as a result of competitive pressures or other things has been a significant factor there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the restructuring implemented at the end of 2Q there Roger I mean do we see the full impact of that on both the revenue and the profits in this 3Q? Or is there still some of that that probably wasn't fully reflected yet for the quarter? No I think you're seeing the full effect of -- on the revenue and the costs.
I think as we said at the time and as Dave just referenced the people that we unfortunately had to let go were either for -- probably underperforming or were in some respects not aligned or needed for the current capacity levels.
So the revenue impact was sort of minimal in that regard.
You haven't obviously seen -- because the third quarter is seasonally a down quarter you don't -- even though the costs are all -- the savings are all being achieved you don't see that fully in a margin uptick at this point.
Yes Tim I think that would be the key thing.
I think from the point of view of the math with the exception of the real estate closings that Roger talked about pretty much it's all done.
But I think the first quarter that we had the benefit of the cost reduction is historically our worst quarter of the year our slowest quarter.
And so you're just not going to feel it in the margin.
It should pick up more in the margin as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question on the e-Discovery or Technology segment it picked up sequentially there.
Were any of those -- did those large engagements pick back up at all? Or was that -- I guess what else did you see there that showed a benefit? We saw some light there and we saw some new large engagements.
So we're -- relatively we were fairly pleased with that so I think it was -- and I think the new sales force did -- we are starting to see some traction in new cases.
They're not the big ones that we traditionally have but we did pick up a couple of large matters and interestingly as has always been the case some of those were from people who had tried the low-cost competitor and found it wanting.
So that's also another reason we have belief in this business long term.
And we'll go next to Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie Securities.
It sounds like there'll be some incremental revenue around Sandy in 2013.
Can you just remind us how you fared around Katrina and if that's kind of a reasonable proxy for what we should expect across the business lines or a little bit stronger than that just given the scale of Sandy? Yes I don't want to be too much of a vulture so realistically we didn't have much coming out of Katrina because it wasn't the -- to be blunt it wasn't the economic capital of the world as New York is.
And heaven forbid but if you look at a situation where businesses were impacted dramatically with the World Trade Center again we've been doing -- working on business interruption issues and all kinds of real estate issues for -- we were -- we had some significant roles there in arbitrating disputes and things like that.
So I think because of the location and as I say our hearts go out to them but for good or evil it was much more devastating in terms of the economic ramifications in lower Manhattan than it was in economic although in personal suffering it's like you can't just -- both are just tragic.
Understood.
And then just -- it sounds like if I heard it right kind of alternative fees came up about 5 or 6 times on the call and it seems like that's going to be kind of more of a shift going forward.
How does that impact kind of the revenue recognition number one? And then number two given the very variability is that going to change the compensation in terms of how you approach compensation across the consultant mix? Right now it's been our policy -- we do not recognize success fees until we get them.
So our accountants will go probably crazy by my statement because we're not a cash accounting company.
But realistically we don't do a percentage completion type of accounting.
We recognize the fee when in fact whatever milestone has been reached and we get it.
I'm not going to say that would continue forever because that's probably not a smart thing to say.
If those fees change the way they're booked and recorded differently but it just seems to us to be the safest thing and the smartest thing to do vis-à-vis our results and your expectations.
I think you raised a good point on compensation and some of the groups already -- we have actually pegged some of the bonus payments to the payments of success fees.
And I think as you see more success fees or more alternative fee arrangements come in I think you would see us take more action to try to link some of the individual variable comp directly to that success.
I am very glad you asked that question because if anybody walks away from this call thinking that the major issue was a change of our business to success fees we have failed dramatically.
It happened to be a period where in one of our segments we noted that there had been a slight mix shift between the percentage of success fees versus chargeable hours.
It could be nothing more than that but it happens to be coincidental with a move in the market towards more use of success fees and growth of certain businesses we have.
But I don't think it will be a fundamental change in how analysts look at FTI in the next couple of years.
I really do not.
And Jack maybe I -- as one of the accountants basically I wanted to add to that that we have -- I mean you can read it obviously in our filings.
We have strong revenue recognition policies around these.
None of that -- whether it shifts or not does not impact how we're doing the revenue recognition.
As Dennis is referring to there's multiple kinds of alternative fee arrangements.
You can have fixed fees capitated rates a variety of different things.
And obviously all of our revenue recognition is based on appropriate accounting guidance but it ensures that we don't recognize revenue before it's actually earned and that it's recognized in an amount that would be greater than what's earned at any point in time.
And we'll go next to Randle Reece with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> My main question when it comes to success fees and the shift in the market is if it's going to change your core billing rate with you accepting a different typical hourly billing rate upfront in exchange for deferred benefit on the back end and if that would lead to lower margins until the success fee revenue catches up.
It's a good question.
I mean again I think the issue of success fees isn't the issue as much as it is alternative fees.
So classically these consulting businesses the professional services business law and accounting operated on a time and materials basis so hourly billing.
So what you're seeing is a change in client desires away from hourly billing to alternative fees.
Success fees are part of an alternative fee package.
Master services agreements where there tends to be a quoted set of fees and it could be hourly against a guaranteed source of revenue is an alternative fee arrangement.
So I just wanted to clarify that there are milestone-driven success fees and then there are alternative type of fees.
You are totally right.
I think for example in health care oftentimes the projects are broken down into 2 areas.
You have an investigative phase and then you have an implementation phase.
And oftentimes the fees on the front end are much lower.
When you go into the implementation fee -- stage you tend to have higher rates which may be a monthly capitated rate.
And then you have milestone-driven success fees going forward.
Across the life of the projects if you're running the projects right the fees should reflect the value for the service.
It's a different way of getting there.
And also as this -- as these -- I mean I now understand why the Supreme Court doesn't answer hypothetical questions because we could go on with different permutations.
But by the time success fees for FTI become more of the 2 to maybe up to 60% that we talked -- 6% we talked about they will be institutionalized so it won't be all of them coming due in September so for the first 8 months of the year you'd only have lower rates that you charge.
They will roll in different increments.
They'll be -- they typically are based on such things as profit enhancement.
They're based on being able to refinance a transaction.
They're based on the sale of a transaction.
They can be based on milestones as you go through the year.
So as they become more a part of the fabric of what we do they will consistently roll on and off during the year.
So I don't think you'll see a big blip where every year we would expect our hourly true-up to be in December as we wait for the success fees to come in.
I think it's a normal part of businesses that are growing here that have a history of that.
As I mentioned Creditor Rights and I mentioned health care are the 2 primary ones.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
Great.
Well thank you all for being with us and again the next time we talk to you we will -- hope we see the results of yesterday's election and some other events.
And we will be presenting our year-end results with our guidance for next year.
So thanks to everyone and we'll talk to you then if not before.
And this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Mollie Hawkes of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions related to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable gap measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer of FTI Consulting.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you Mollie and thank you and welcome to everyone for joining us today.
With me on the call from FTI are Daniel Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister our chairman of North America.
This morning we announced our fourth quarter and year-end 2012 results.
By now I hope all of you have had a chance to review them.
If not as Mollie said they can be found at www.fticonsulting.com for your convenient reference.
For the quarter revenues increased 2% to a fourth quarter record of $399.3 million.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.67 and adjusted EBITDA was $68.1 million or 17% of revenues.
Cash collections were at record levels even significantly exceeding our record revenues for the quarter.
For the year revenues increased 1% to $1.58 billion compared to $1.57 billion in the prior-year period.
Adjusted earnings per share were $230 million and adjusted EBITDA was $251 million or 16% of revenues.
Most importantly I think the quarterly results set the stage for the launch of our 31st year and it has become our custom rather than regurgitate the press release.
We'll briefly give a few thoughts on what we believe are the key takeaways from the quarter and the year turn it over to Roger to discuss some of the financial events that we had in the fourth quarter and then most importantly turn it over to you for your questions.
Increasingly as we grow from a collection of great professionals and gold standard practices into one firm the keys to that growth will be our ability to operate globally and respond with industry expertise.
In short we need to be able to respond to hot markets with solutions wherever they occur.
There is no greater demonstration of this than in our fourth quarter.
From a geographic perspective we realized revenue increases in each of our geographic regions.
In Latin America revenues grew 8% year-over-year.
Revenues were driven by another strong quarter from the Forensic and Litigation Consulting team in South America particularly in Brazil where our construction industry practice saw a strong growth as Brazil's government recognized the urgent need to improve the country's infrastructure.
The 2016 Olympics and 2014 World Cup will happen in a country where only 14% of roads are paved and the World Economic Forum ranks Brazil's quality of infrastructure 104 out of 142 countries surveyed.
Looking ahead Brazil's urgent infrastructure need should provide ample opportunities for FTI Consulting.
Over the next 2 years the Brazilian government will spend $80 billion or 1% of GDP a year on infrastructure as part of its growth acceleration program.
We also saw nearly a 150% year-over-year improvement in Mexico that was largely driven by contributions from our Forensic and Litigation segment.
In Asia-Pacific revenues increased 5% year-over-year.
Revenues were driven by double-digit increases in Australia China and Singapore.
We remain very active in corruption investigations in areas like reverse mergers and investor fraud investigations in China.
Corporate finance restructuring also benefited from the acquisition of KMQ in Australia adding 70 professionals with significant experience in energy real estate and health care.
Our Technology business also began to realize a return on our investments in its sales and marketing team in the region with new matters almost doubling during the quarter.
In Europe the Middle East and Africa or EMEA revenues increased 7% year-over-year.
Revenues were largely driven by contributions from our Global Risks &amp; Investigations practice in the United Kingdom and of course our unparalleled economics practice.
Our Strategic Communications business benefited from significant retainer wins in the energy industry and saw double-digit year-over-year increases in France Germany Belgium Russia and the United Arab Emirates.
In North America revenues improved slightly year-over-year with corporate finance restructuring leading the way with almost 14% revenue growth including I hope people saw yesterday the job that we did for the city of Philadelphia.
I think we've discovered a pretty good formula for being able to help municipalities look at their expenses make significant cost savings and without the cost of jobs.
So I urge you to look at that as a template for other jobs that we can do in that area.
In economic consulting frankly and especially it's like complex lexicon practice.
We're beginning to exhaust their supply of superlatives to describe their performance.
On the industry expertise front while we are relatively new to the game the results have been so encouraging that I think they represent a real vision of the possibility for our future.
For example in healthcare we now have over 195 professionals with approximately $95 million in revenues and aggressive plans to grow the business.
We serve broadly across the spectrum from nonprofit hospital turnaround and operational improvement to strategic advice M&amp;A and data analytics.
In energy we have an intersegment practice that is active in over 65 energy matters ranging from shale gas frac-ing on behalf of major international energy companies to drilling rights disputes in the Eastern Mediterranean.
We now have more than 100 professionals firm-wide dedicated for this practice with over $130 million in revenues from major energy clients that include energy companies natural resources companies utilities pipeline oilfield equipment and services clients and others.
Our Telecommunications Media and Technology practice includes a group of 62 professionals and very profitable revenues of over $50 million.
Recently the entertainment facet of the practice was augmented by the acquisition of The Salter Group the preeminent entertainment valuation firm headquartered in Los Angeles California.
In insurance we have 30 professionals offering a full range of insurance consulting services including actuarial financial underwriting and claims for property and casualty life health and pension.
We have significant revenues in the area and are expanding to address Latins in the United Kingdom and in Latin America and increase our expertise in the area of predictive analysis and business continuity.
As we mentioned we also have specialties in areas such as construction real estate and financial institutions.
One of our real wins has been our Global Risk &amp; Investigations practice where we have over 150 professionals in 13 countries on 5 continents serving 400 clients in over 800 matters worldwide.
Recently we added 15 professionals in London in a group hire to complete our geographic footprint and have been dubbed by The Economist magazine as simply "The best in the business." While prospects in these industries may not be limitless they certainly are attractive enough to keep us very busy for a long time.
Finally I think I should mention a word about M&amp;A.
While it is not a segment or even a virtual discrete practice for us it is the second-largest driver of business in our company and can literally impact every facet of the firm.
As you are all aware we have seen a flurry of M&amp;A activity in 2013 with our economic consulting group seeing its repository of potential M&amp;A mergers as the highest levels in the history of the company.
M&amp;A is the most easily identifiable growth catalyst for our business with the potential to drive approximately 10% or more of total revenues as it touches each of our business segments.
Economic Consulting has first looked in regulatory approval services Technology performs high-margin second request work and Strategic Communications is employed for communication support throughout the M&amp;A cycle.
Corporate Finance/Restructuring is engaged for due diligence on merger integration and Forensic and Litigation Consulting does potential investigations and post-acquisition disputes.
While it's still early innings the pickup in transaction activity in just the first 6 weeks of the year leaves us optimistic about M&amp;A.
At mid-month M&amp;A activity has more than tripled reaching a level of $182 billion compared with $58 billion at this time last year.
Turning to our fiscal 2013 outlook.
Our plan is to focus on organic growth and collect our cash.
We will use that cash to continue our repurchase stock repurchase program and to pursue tuck-in acquisitions where they are provided as an opportunity.
Based on current market conditions the company estimates that revenues for the year will be between $1.63 billion and $1.7 billion and diluted adjusted earnings per share will be between $2.40 and $2.60.
As always this is organic growth and does not include acquisitions or share repurchases.
Now I'll turn it over to Roger.
Roger? Thanks Jack.
Under -- regarding the impairment charge that Jack mentioned under generally accepted accounting principles we're required to consider the book value of such assets annually.
This is a point-in-time analysis using standard business valuation methods.
And at FTI Consulting we perform this analysis annually on October 1 of each year.
As a result of this annual test we recorded a $110.4 million noncash pretax charge to reduce the book value of goodwill associated with our Strategic Communications segment.
The impairment is a noncash charge and does not affect the company's operations cash flows liquidity or debt covenants.
In the quarter we also completed a series of debt refinancing transactions which increased our access to capital and extended our debt maturities at lower interest rates.
And as a result of these actions in conjunction with our retirement of our 2012 notes in July of last year we ended the year with $73.9 million less debt and no borrowings under our $350 million senior secured bank credit facility.
As noted in the press release as well this morning our cash collections during the quarter were $461 million with a record $185 million collected in December.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $156.8 million at December 31 2012.
For the year our net cash provided by operating activities was $120.2 million which included the effect of our accelerating approximately $25 million of bonus payments end of 2012 from 2013.
And as a result our 2013 cash from operating activities will be benefited by the lack of these same payments.
Currently we anticipate net cash provided by operating activities for 2013 to range between $175 million and $200 million and we anticipate capital expenditures for the year to range between $31 million and $37 million.
And with that Jack I'll turn the call back to you.
Thank you.
Just a quick comment that while it's a technical matter and certainly our market conditions matter we were forced to take the action we did with regard to the goodwill impairment has not dampened our enthusiasm for that business our belief in our people.
It has been a fundamental key of our expansion around the globe and there are a significant number of our largest matters in the country in the history of our company that we would not have had without that very valuable asset.
So with that we'd like to turn it over to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to our first question from Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> First Jack can you just give us those numbers again? And I guess I just want to clarify what those numbers were related M&amp;A that you said thus far this year has almost tripled.
Is that your revenue that you guys are getting on M&amp;A related projects? No no.
What I said was that the volume of deals in the marketplace has tripled to up to I think over $150 billion this year in the first 6 to 8 weeks of the year.
So a reference point for -- it looks to us like there's going to -- and that combined with the fact that we have a large number of projects that we're looking at on an exploratory basis for our clients indicates to us that there's a good opportunity for it to be a very vibrant market this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just to dig in on that have you actually seen that? I guess you mentioned kind of the exploratory projects for I'm assuming that's for economic consulting are you seeing it flow through to the other parts of the business yet? Or is this more just an encouraging sign that you would hope later in the year will translate to the rest of the business? Right now it's a very encouraging sign.
And we're certainly seeing it being realized in the economic consulting group.
Typically they would be the tip of the spear and that as we get into more deals coming to fruition you would see the second request that would tip over into the Technology business.
You would see the restructuring and corporate finance people get the due diligence assignments and Transaction Support business.
And so it would build -- flow through the company in that kind of direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as we look at the type of M&amp;A is it right that the strategic M&amp;A is better for you than kind of the LDO-type activity? Yes historically M&amp;A has been the place where more approval is required because you have the impacts from in terms of the Justice Department and the organizations that have to approve people in the same industry or look at the antitrust impact.
But increasingly one of the things that we're seeing is that portfolio of companies in PE firms are doing strategic acquisitions of their own.
So I think there's -- we've seen that just recently so that would probably be a pretend good for FTI as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Electronic Discovery business can you remind us where we're at now at year end with the kind of the 2 large engagements that have been a headwind for that business this past year? Can we see better growth in '13 or will they continue to be a headwind? I think the comparisons will -- the good news is that some of those jobs are continuing to wind down and still have an impact in our company.
We are doing a pretty good job.
As we've mentioned we've made investments in the sales efforts in that area.
We picked up a couple of new ones but they would still represent a significant number of revenues for us to replace during the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one more and I'll jump off.
The size of our success fees for the Restructuring business you mentioned in the press release how significantly did that increase I guess? Roger you want to answer that? Yes.
Quarter-over-quarter these excess fees in corporate recovery or corporate restructuring and finance were about $3.5 million greater.
So they weren't substantially greater.
I think we should say because we've had the question many times that the Lehman fee did come in in the fourth quarter.
Weren't sure at the time where that would -- is the last time we spoke well that would be fourth quarter or first quarter but it did occur in the fourth quarter 2012.
We'll go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Frank in for Tobey.
Quick question.
In terms of the environment for hiring an attrition can you comment on what your plans are for hiring and what attritions it might go with? Yes.
It's Dennis Frank.
The environment I don't think has changed very dramatically over the last 6 to 9 months.
I think our plan for hiring is clearly we are hiring aggressively either through group hires as Jack referred or through tuck-in acquisitions in strategic parts of the world.
So yes we're bringing a lot of people on in Australia we're bringing people on down in Brazil Mexico over in the U.K.
In our group practice we are bringing more industry expertise into the company specifically in some of the areas that Jack talked about.
Our turnover at the top is as been negligible if almost nothing.
And our turnover sort of in the bottom third the younger people has not seen any significant either increases or decreases from our prior history.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you performed very well on ECON.
And just wanted to know how much you think is share gain versus the market versus change of mix of pricing.
If you could give us some of the underlying kind of drivers of the ECON group's performance that'll be great.
Well I think -- it's Dennis again.
I think they do have -- I mean we do have in our opinion the premier operation there around the world.
I think we are benefiting from almost all 3 of the areas you touched on.
Number one we probably have gained share in certain areas.
I think we're gaining share in certainly competition we're gaining share in complex financial litigation and we're gaining share geographically through our South American operation.
And especially over in Europe they had an excellent year over there.
We do have pricing power so we have been able to increase rates.
And finally I think Jack said it fairly clearly.
Our backlog there especially on the competition side is large as we've ever seen it and is now starting to act -- activate.
And I think as you see these companies starting to pull the trigger we will be very busy in liaison with the U.S.
government and Washington and with Brussels.
So we anticipate the second half of this year once sort of all of the political noise dies down that if in all honesty about 20% of the retentions that we have right now actually activate and go forward they're going to be extremely busy.
So the answer to your question is all 3.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And finally you mentioned I think 14% revenue growth in Restructuring.
What are you seeing there? Is it still a strong pipeline or is there some tail to be expected? I think I'd turn it over to Dave Bannister who is literally sitting in our Annual Restructuring Summit that we host for the industry.
David what's the word out there? Yes.
Thank you Dennis.
We have about 80 of our restructuring professionals gathered here for an annual conference.
And we'll be joined by about 300 clients primarily the leading figures in the restructuring industry lawyers bankers hedge funds and so forth.
I would say that the general feeling is that the default rate which is now running about 3% in the high-yield issuance is lower than average and will probably remain lower than average for the balance certainly of this year.
The liquidity in the market would drive that more than anything but also we have a reasonable economic outlook.
On the other hand and something we have not focused on in the past is the overall scale of the market.
The scale of a subprime issuance sub of debt that it would be the type that might go into default is almost exactly double what it was 5 years ago.
So the size of the opportunities that are out there the number the sheer number of opportunities is much greater.
So in simple math if you took 3% of twice as much it is a bigger market opportunity than having the default rate go from 3% to 4% on a smaller opportunity.
So I think people are generally -- will think it won't be a banner year but it will be a solid year.
Many of us saw for example yesterday the JCPenney announcement where they announced comp store sales down something like 40%.
So there's still some trouble out there in the economy and I suspect our folks will get their fair share of it.
Dennis? Well I mean I would reiterate that.
I think our people who are on record is having concerns about certain segments of the retail industry.
Some of those segments have been levered and re-levered again and they're not reporting either good comps or some of their creditors are getting very concerned.
Because in all honesty big-box real estate is not the most easy thing to use to defeat debt.
So I think that's certainly a sector.
So you might see along the lines of what David said just given the scale you might see certain sector weakness in the face of maybe an overall rising economy but certain secular weakness that could contribute to at least industry pops in restructuring business.
And I think clearly you could not have the velocity capital that is moving into areas in Asia and Latin America be digested 100% efficiently.
So we are adding significant strength in our Restructuring business out in Asia and we are not doing that in anticipation they won't be busy and we are now insinuating assets in Brazil.
Anticipating that again while there are tremendous opportunities on the infrastructure build side there's going to be excesses there there's going to be inefficiencies that are going to need our help to sort of restructure and sort out.
So we would anticipate over the next 2 to 3 years sort of a wealth of opportunity not only on a pro-cyclical side in Brazil but also on our restructuring side.
We'll go next to Bill Sutherland of Northland Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Restructuring.
Can you give us a sense of the dimension of that part of the corporate finance revenue line at this point both -- if you could give to us maybe globally and then in the U.S.? I'm just trying to get a sense of the mix there.
And then associated with that to what degree -- I mean you talked about the global opportunity and I'm curious to what degree you can move resources as needed to where the demand warrants it in that area? I'll start.
It's Dennis Bill.
We don't break out obviously every line of service item there.
Far and away classic restructuring is the largest driver of the business and that would also be the case globally.
The other segments are transactional support which as Jack said tends to be support work done in the front of capital flows or in the middle or post integration type of deal work.
We do have a healthcare practice.
Part of the healthcare practice that Jack talked about is housed in corporate finance.
But again in Europe there would predominantly be a Restructuring business with some transaction support.
Asia without a doubt it would be a Restructuring business.
I would say globally the classic restructuring would be north of 60% of all the revenues there.
On your second question about moving resources around I think the key to our business is that we have the people in area.
The reason we're the -- not too presumptuous to say one of if not the most successful in Latin America because we have resources there.
We have taken the trouble to build a business down in Brazil.
In Europe we are the next to the big -- we're probably the biggest presence there in the London market.
So it's key to us to have the people in.
Because the people that don't succeed at that are the ones who try to fly in and do the work and it just doesn't work as a very good formula.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching over to the FLC just for a minute.
I want to get a sense of the revenue trend there.
In terms of decline in the year just ended in the fourth quarter in particular how much of that was -- would you call rightsizing? And then kind of what do you -- how should we think about that line within the '13 guidance in terms of revenue? And also I'm kind of curious about the margin recovery there potentially? Roger why don't you take that? All right thank you.
I think if you look at FLC it's a mixture.
As we noted in the press release in Jack's comments that business particularly in North America continues to face some headwinds in the areas that would deal mostly with U.S.
Federal or other kinds of similar international government investigations.
That's something we look forward to turning around.
As you get through the election you get various regulators confirmed into new positions and things change.
So it's a mixture.
There's obviously from the reductions of special charge that was taken earlier in the year you have a small amount of revenue reduction related to that.
But most importantly they're dealing with the headwinds mostly in the North American market mostly in their forensic accounting and investigations business.
Research Division</strong> And do you expect -- I mean not to get into too much detail but directionally what should we sort of expect in '13? I think we're looking for -- as I've said we're looking for that business that particular part the U.S.
focused Forensic Accounting &amp; Investigations business to improve as we get May Jo Widen [ph] others confirmed in the SEC and those organizations and institutions maybe get back to a bit more normal activities than they did in the mid to latter part of 2012.
We also have been -- we've been fortunate to be retained in some engagements that have gotten quite notable publicity that would be post-merger type of disputes or accounting disputes around deals that have the potential.
They're brand-new retentions but they have the potential to be extremely big because they are very large transactions.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then I guess in Tech just a little bit perhaps in terms of how you see your new product offering developing this year kind of how the market -- I know you just introduced the decoding and related solution.
Where is the market headed do you think or how fast is it adopting now? Well I think I'll refer to the industry.
Gartner obviously feels the market is going to get there a lot faster than maybe some of the practitioners do.
But I think without a doubt just given the continued proliferation of electronic data there has to be a way of more efficiently capturing and managing the need to understand what you have and to produce it.
So I think our feeling is strongly that predictive coding will be embraced.
There could be debates about how quickly it's going to be embraced.
And again a lot of it is going to depend upon the receptivity of it by judges and court rooms.
But I think without a doubt it's here it's not going away.
And we think that our offering represents the beginning of a good first step for people to start to embrace it and use it.
So I think the initial feedback we're getting back from people confirms that thesis.
And our feeling is that this is a first step in predictive coding which should be followed by many many applications hopefully most generated by us.
Research Division</strong> So I guess what you're saying Dennis is that the new business that you've started to get that helps to offset the decline.
And this decline has been...
Sure.
I think the offset will declined across the solutions offering.
So I mean we without a doubt are starting to get some initial feeling of what second request might look like on some of these large M&amp;As as some of the clients get closer and closer to pulling the trigger on them.
So I mean that's very intense business it's very profitable business.
And again I think we're positioned as well if not better than anyone to do that.
So we would anticipate if we're right on the increase in the M&amp;A activity especially in the second part of the year that vicariously we're going to get our fair share if not more of that business.
We have several engagements that are growing.
They are not of the size of the 2 that -- I think most people have referenced that we've been publicly outed on that are winding down.
On the other hand they are growing and they are complex and they have the opportunity to offset to a larger extent than maybe we originally thought some of the burn off of the others.
But make note we're not trying to say we still don't have headwinds those 2 assignments were massive.
We were happy to have them.
But now we have to replace them.
So I think they're going to be replaced across the board.
They'll be replaced by increased use of our technology especially some of the new apps.
But they'll also be replaced by second request work and increased consulting offered on some work that we already have that's starting to grow.
If I may jump in for just one second on this.
One phenomena which I think you'll hear us talk more and more about as the year progresses is the increasing frequency of us being an installed provider in a client for a long period of time.
Our sales force efforts and some of our larger merging engagements are really intended to be a long-term service provider with major companies that have ongoing litigation needs not merely responding to a crisis or an event.
I don't want to diminish the importance of prices or events or secondary request or what have you but I would say a larger and larger portion of our revenue is where we are embedded in the client and really acting as their partner on multiple matters over multiple years.
Yes to that theme David it's a good point.
I also would note that of probably of the 3 largest potential matters we picked up in the back half of 2012 were all takeaways as many of the largest matters we have in our history are aware in complicated stuff.
We are still the gold standard of people who either fix it when it's gone wrong or get it right from the first time.
If you've been a prior client and you know that.
So I think that's also an encouraging sign because it really shows that in the elephant hunting we are the gold standard.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then -- so I guess what I'm taking away here is that those 2 biggies are largely going to wind down in the course of '13.
Is that a good way to think about it? I think it's fair Dave.
The answer is yes.
How -- it doesn't mean they will go away but they will wind down to where they will not be a headwind.
I think it would be aggressive.
Though right now to forecast that we will replace all of that business to where the full year's benefit of it will offset what we'll lose this year.
So I think this is more of a year of starting to build back growth because you're having to basically replace the aircraft carrier in your fleet and it takes a while to get that done.
We'll go next to Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just had one quick one.
And again relating to those 2 large engagements within the Technology segment.
I believe a year ago you guys disclosed that they were about 40% or 44% of revenue for the Technology.
Can you -- do we have a similar sizing of what the contribution was in the fourth quarter? They're of equal size for us as they worked out.
I don't have the exact statistics on that.
I don't actually recall us disclosing that though we may have.
But I don't have that in front of me now.
But they are still -- the largest matters are still a significant amount of revenue.
We'll take our next question from David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> A couple of quick ones.
One on Strategic Communications can you give a sense today for how much of that business is retainer versus episodic as things have changed? I'm sorry Dave state that question again.
LLC</strong> On the Communications business it was a number -- or many years ago before the world started to change how much of the business was retainer? Yes.
I think -- we think of it a bit -- in terms of pure retained revenue there are fewer retained relationships coming out of the financial crisis than there were heading into it.
But still looking at it now in terms of the number of retained relationships and the level of recurring revenue we're perhaps are no longer paying the monthly retainer.
But they're -- we have a steady level of recurring revenue from that relationship.
That's still approximately 70% of the revenue base.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then a quick one on restructuring.
Did you give -- I don't think I heard you give a number.
If you can it'd be helpful as to what the Australian acquisition contributed during the quarter.
I think we actually reported when we did the deal and it is consistent.
Our expectation was consistent of about $5 million in revenue for the fourth quarter.
But I think we had -- it actually did not contribute much on an earnings basis because of the stamp tax that we had to pay out there.
And all the closing costs of the deal now we deducted in that quarter.
LLC</strong> Got you got you.
Okay perfect.
And then one last one.
I guess probably not a bad moment to give you the opportunity to remind us on how much of a step down do you expect in profitability between fourth quarter to first quarter from the increase in payroll taxes et cetera? Well I think as you know we've said in the past it ranges around 250 to 300 basis points.
And it has ranged typically around say $0.08 to $0.10 per share.
So I think it would stay in those basic ranges.
Obviously we have some tax changes that are flowing through that we're trying to make sure we understand those and what the impact of those will be.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Randle Reece with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> The revenue guidance looks stronger than the implied profit margin guidance and I was wondering how many different dynamics go into that equation.
The revenue guidance the implied profit margin is predominantly influenced by one area on the negative side and that's Europe.
Our margins are expanding in Latin America they're expanding in Asia.
Discounting the negative impact of the closing costs of the deal out there would have expanded and they're stable and we think have some ability to expand.
They're certainly holding their own in economics in North America in restructuring.
And actually our margin expanded in Strategic Communications.
The biggest basically drag on margin is Europe.
And while we're profitable across the board in all of our offerings there we're growing.
And we're able to extend in some areas the margin such as in the economic competition area there is an overall margin pressure that we are not immune to that I think most service businesses in Europe are dealing with.
And so I think that we're trying to be realistic we're obviously looking at costs very hard in Europe we're looking at alternative ways of delivering things in Europe.
But at the end of the day the most profitable high-margin business for our communications group which represents about half of our revenues in Europe is capital markets work and it just simply does not exist in Europe right now.
It's not there we have a big backlog of people clients who wish it would be there but the fact to the matter is it's not there.
So you start off with sort of one element that always gave you one of your biggest margin enhancements and that's the capital markets work and it's not there.
Secondly there's just general pressure on the company's P&amp;Ls over there because they're sitting in an environment that either one they're experiencing negative growth or sideways growth and they're certainly experiencing a lot of stress within the overall fiscal and monetary marketplace there.
So the companies are watching their own cost that puts pressure on your margins in all honesty with the exception of the economic group where the deal cost tend not to be a big factor.
There is significant pressure across all of our groups in Europe on pricing.
And I would not say we have anymore pricing power in Europe than any other professional firm.
We may be taking share in some areas but again it's at a lower margin than we would experience literally in the rest of the world.
So the reason for our caution on margin and believe me it is a major major initiative here to try to get that European margin up to a level that's commensurate with the rest of the company is Europe.
And I think that we're pleased with the direction of the margin in South America which is -- would mimic the whole company.
We're pleased with Asia where we have a similar experience.
North America speaks for itself.
The drag on margin is Europe and Europe right now is more of a high single-digit profitability margin.
And with the size of our operation in Europe you could sort of do the math and see how that pulls it down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give the domestic versus international revenue mix for the fourth quarter as well as what you assumed in guidance? It is Roger.
We assume roughly the same because it doesn't -- lets it step while it's moving more internationally has not shift that rapidly other than by some major acquisition.
We were essentially about for the prior year a little over 25% 26% international 75% 74% U.S.
and I think that held in the fourth quarter as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> So that was -- the 26% is full year '12? Yes.
And that would be our assumption.
Again we expect growth in Latin America and in Asia but you're growing off of smaller numbers and not a lot of growth in Europe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you have any comment...
Overall if you have growth in the U.S.
you're going to stay around a 74% to 26% 73% or 27% mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you have any comment on headcount trends so far in 2013? I think you would expect to see -- generally speaking in our business you'd expect to see headcount growth commensurate with revenue growth in each of the segments except Technology which has a higher component of non-hours based revenue than the other segments and I think for FLC at this time because they have capacity availability.
So they would have -- they can have revenue growth that would exceed their headcount growth.
In fact they should Roger because we've made some significant investments in some senior people in the areas that we pointed out in the press release.
So they're looking to grow into those people so that should be a positive going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> The headcount numbers were very positive versus my expectations.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Jack Dunn for any additional and/or closing remarks.
Okay great.
Well I just want to thank everybody again for joining us.
And we look forward to speaking with you as we announce our first quarter results.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Mollie Hawkes of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's first quarter 2013 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of the risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable gap measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead Jack.
Thank you Mollie and thank you everyone for joining us today to discuss our first quarter results.
With me on the call are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister our Chairman of North America.
Earlier today we announced our results and by now I hope all of you have had a chance to review them.
If not as Mollie said they can be found on our website at www.fticonsulting.com.
For the quarter revenues increased 3% year-over-year to a first quarter record of $407.2 million.
Adjusted earnings per share of $0.59 were up 37% year-over-year and adjusted EBITDA of $59.3 million improved 10% year-over-year.
Our record first quarter revenue results were driven by a 15% year-over-year increase in our market-leading Economic Consulting segment.
We also benefited from the strong contribution of strategic acquisitions in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring practice in Asia-Pacific and our Telecommunications Media and Technology practice.
As is our custom rather than reprise the press release I will briefly give a few thoughts on what we believe are the key takeaways from the quarter turn it over to Roger to discuss our first quarter tax rate and the changes that occurred in our segment reporting structure during the quarter and then turn it back to the audience for your questions.
In Economic Consulting the story was itself the strong performance which was spectacular.
That performance was also strong across all of our Economic Consulting practices and we have seen this strength continue into the second quarter.
First quarter revenues of $115.2 million increased 15% year-over-year and were driven by strong demand and higher average bill rates in our financial economics and antitrust practices as well as our European international arbitration regulatory IP and valuation practices.
Most interesting despite reports of a weak M&amp;A market by most of our competitors our antitrust practice and competition practice experienced increases in M&amp;A-related business during the quarter and engagements that we have secured in the past also began to quicken a bit.
Our regulatory work remained vigorous and we saw particular strength in our residential mortgage-backed securities engagements.
In International arbitration revenues were driven by an uptick in activity coupled with some reduction in pricing pressure from the levels we had seen historically a testament to the first-class reputation of our professionals.
We saw a particular strength in the energy and telecommunications sectors as our Economic Consulting professionals continued to enhance our expertise depth and global presence in these highly regulated industries.
Energy is clearly going to be a growth industry for our firm.
In Economic Consulting we added energy engagements in the United States and Europe.
We also benefited from our cross-practice offerings as the professionals of Economic Consulting continued to collaborate with our Strategic Communications and Corporate Finance/Restructuring colleagues to serve this dynamic industry.
We have experienced strong demand for our regulatory services in the pipeline space.
And in Europe there is a robust activity around the subject of shale gas.
Looking forward we will shift our focus to policy regulations as there is a tremendous amount of new gas being discovered that needs policy in place across a broad spectrum.
Also worth noting earlier this month after the quarter we added to our renowned team with the acquisition of Princeton Economics Group.
We have worked extensively with the Princeton Group over the years on a variety of high-profile antitrust matters.
This transaction is a marriage of 2 organizations that share the same values and commitment to cutting-edge economic analyses.
We are thrilled to welcome such an elite group of renowned economists to our team including Peter Bronsteen Kenneth Elzinga and John Bigelow.
In Corporate Finance/Restructuring first quarter revenues of $99.1 million increased 2%.
Revenue increases were driven by contributions from successful tuck-in acquisitions in Asia-Pacific and in our Telecommunications Media and Technology group and by a great performance by our U.K.
restructuring practice.
During the second quarter we also announced the acquisition of Taylor Woodings an Australian specialist corporate advisory firm focused on corporate recovery restructuring advisory and forensics services.
Taylor Woodings is an exceptional complement to our existing business and takes us also into the forensic area which we think will be an important addition to our repertoire as we also develop technology out in Asia-Pacific.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting first quarter revenues of $100.7 million decreased 3% year-over-year.
The segment's global risk and investigations practice and global construction practice remain particularly strong while we saw lower results from our global data enterprise analytics practice and our core North American practice.
In Technology we not only maintained but we increased margins despite continued declines in certain large litigation- and investigation-related matters.
We also were able to do this despite increasing our investment in our sales and marketing effort.
In Strategic Communications we saw a continued excellent performance in energy and we are very enthusiastic about our prospects there.
The recent acquisition of the C2 Group a highly regarded bipartisan government relations and lobbying firm based in Washington D.C.
took place after the quarter or at the end.
And as the intersection of business government and regulation continues to accelerate we believe this acquisition will bear fruit not only in the U.S.
but globally as we develop more of a practice.
From a geographic perspective Asia-Pacific revenues increased 23% year-over-year.
The increase was largely driven by Corporate Finance/Restructuring.
As we mentioned the segment benefited from the acquisition of KMQ in Australia.
More importantly as we mentioned the recent acquisitions of KMQ and Taylor Woodings are of broader strategic significance to FTI as we aim to further enhance our presence in this attractive market.
We now have Corporate Finance/Restructuring professionals in Sydney Melbourne Perth and Brisbane.
The footprint will serve as a strong foundation as we build out our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Technology offerings.
The extended network also promotes synergies with our established Strategic Communications colleagues in Australia.
In EMEA revenues increased 4% year-over-year.
Revenue was driven by double-digit year-over-year increases in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring Economic Consulting and Technology segments.
Of particular note was the uptick in demand for our Europe-based energy engagements during the quarter.
In North America where revenues increased 2% year-over-year as I said Economic Consulting was the story.
And in Latin America where revenues declined 6% year-over-year we saw a demand for our Forensic and Litigations Consulting services in Brazil be quite solid and we believe that Brazil as well as Mexico will be bright spots for us in the upcoming quarters.
Now over to Roger.
Thank you Jack.
Our first quarter adjusted earnings per share benefited from a favorable resolution of previously reserved tax positions which were resolved during the tax audit process during the first quarter.
This favorable tax adjustment positively impacted adjusted earnings per share by $0.06 per share.
The impact of this tax adjustment was foreseen and was included in our 2013 earnings guidance we provided during our February call.
Our effective tax rate is anticipated to return to approximately 37% in the remaining 2013 quarters.
Turning to our health solutions practice which you now notice we're reporting differently as we have discussed in the past FTI Consulting is excited about the growing opportunity to serve clients in the health care industry.
Our professionals are focused on providing services for providers payers and physician groups as they deal with the challenges caused by the changing health care landscape including the current challenges created by the dramatic transformations occurring in health care regulation.
In our ongoing efforts to expand our position in this important industry and extend our capabilities to more broadly assist our clients we combined the approximately 200 professionals serving clients in this industry from both our Corporate Finance and Restructuring and our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment combined into one operating practice.
Combined our new health care solutions practice now consist of over 200 professionals dedicated to serving clients in this growth industry.
As of January 1 2013 the company's health solution practice is now included in its entirety in the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment including the portion that was previously included in the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment.
As a result both the current year and prior-year information provided in our press release and the 10-Q that we will file today include all of health solutions in Forensic and Litigation Consulting.
Additionally segment financial data for the years 2010 2011 and 2012 will be available in a Form 8-K to be filed on or about May 21 of this year in advance of our public registration of our 2022 senior notes issued in November of last year.
For the quarter the inclusion of the health solutions practice within the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment resulted in a reduction of Corporate Finance and Restructuring revenue for the first quarter of about $17.6 million and an increase in the adjusted segment EBITDA of that segment by 148 basis points.
In the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment the inclusion resulted in an increase of revenues of $17.6 million and a decrease in their adjusted segment EBITDA margin of 70 basis points.
With that Jack I'll turn it back to you.
Okay.
At this point then we'd like to turn it over for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Let's take our first question from Kevin McVeigh from Macquarie.
Particularly on the bill rates in FLC and Economics any sense of just kind of the sustainability what drove that? And then was there any impact in terms of the recapture from the health care segment that kind of impacted the FLC or Corporate Finance? Just a real nice job there.
Kevin with respect to the bill rates for Forensic Litigation Consulting the increase you're seeing there for the most part is a professional mix of hours.
While we increase our bill rates each year those increased on a sort of a rack rate basis and a net rate basis more in the 3% to 3.5% range whereas the adjustments you see in that quarter-over-quarter rate has more to do with more hours by our senior professionals in the mix as compared to the prior year.
And in Economic Consulting you have a little bit of that but obviously as we had mentioned in the past Economic Consulting does have pricing power as compared to the other segments and they were able to raise their rates twice in the prior year so you have more of a rate increase and effect there.
Understood.
And then Roger I think over the course of the call you kind of mentioned Europe positively 3 times.
Do you think we're kind of at the turning point in Europe here? Or any sense as to -- it's interesting because it seems like you folks are seeing some real nice momentum there and that's kind of counter to what a lot of folks are saying.
So just any thoughts around that would be helpful too.
It's Dennis.
One it might be positive for us I'm not sure it's still positive in Europe.
Our restructuring group had an outstanding first quarter.
And so clearly if you want to appear a victory then I guess you could turn around and say we are benefiting in that group from the stress that a lot of companies are experiencing now here in Europe.
On more of a positive macro note as Jack said we have broadened our energy practice significantly and are taking a leadership role with a bunch of petroleum companies in the area of shale oil and frac-ing.
And clearly it has become just as an aggressively argued topic over in Europe as it is -- we're actually sitting in London today -- over here as it is over in the States.
And so we have benefited by a lot of retained work in those 2 areas.
So I would say good news for FTI but I think you could call it sort of a mixed bag maybe.
If you're looking for us to represent a macro trend here I would say that it would be hard to read except for the fact that Restructuring had a very good quarter.
Moving on we'll take your next question from Tobey Sommer from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What are the trends you're seeing in terms of new business and other kind of domestic restructuring? I'm just curious kind of what the trends are like there whether you had previously thought we -- maybe we're at a quarterly range that's had some predictability to it.
Just wondering if that's still the case.
Well I think you ended up fairly close to last year's number when you restate backwards for health care so I think we were -- we're around a sustainable trend.
I think again it's a global practice and all parts of the world aren't acting the same.
I think Tobey domestically I would say we're seeing restructuring continue on a down trend versus where it was in the last 3 to 4 years.
I think the liquidity that's in the market clearly is either delaying or allaying some of the stresses.
There are industry sectors that might defy that.
But right now we would view the domestic market as still in a decline.
The default rate I think are at historic lows.
And then I think that's offset by the stress in certain industry groups for example in Australia the extraction industry has come under a lot of stress given the pullback in demand from China and other areas.
And as we have already stated we had an excellent first quarter in restructuring here in Europe.
David? Tobey it's Dave Bannister.
The other thing I'd point out and sometimes we fail to mention this our Corporate Finance business includes many practices that are not restructuring now.
So for example our TMT business our Telecommunications Media and Technology business substantially all of that business in this quarter had nothing to do with restructuring.
It had to do with process improvement.
It had to do with post-merger integration.
It had to do with services that are not affected by the bankruptcy cycle and that's a pretty good-sized of business for us now.
That's probably a $68 million run rate business.
So we have a number of services that are not -- that are housed in Corporate Finance that are not restructuring.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the Technology space over the last several quarters we've talked about how you had a couple extraordinarily large engagements that were moderating.
Could you give us some color on where we sit relative to those engagements? Yes there are 2 large ones.
Most of you have read about them.
And one I think has effectively ended.
There may be some very small residual billings so that would be behind us.
The other one is in a precipitous decline.
There was revenues in the quarter from it at a much lower rate than we had experienced in the past and we would expect those revenues to decline significantly quarter-to-quarter for the next 2 quarters to where at best you might have some small maintenance charges in there.
But those assignments will be over.
Our guys have done an excellent job of sort of staying level by replacing what ended up being the largest engagement we ever had with a lot of new work some of which is now building into some significant scale not approaching where these 2 assignments were but they're becoming serious assignments and I think that we're cautiously optimistic that the business is going to be coming in at a rate that will cushion some of this decline.
But we will see a decline here.
It is impossible not to see it short of a very sort of serendipitous event occurring.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 other questions for me.
Do you have an expectation for where you'll take headcount this year in terms of growth whether it's through lift outs of small groups or organic one-off hires? And then do you expect to continue to repurchase shares kind of in the methodical fashion that you have the last couple of quarters? I think you would -- again I think you'll see headcount adjust and maybe a net addition by the end of the year.
As Jack said we've already this year closed 3 significant acquisitions for us as far as either broadening geography or broadening a skill set.
And so by definition you're adding headcount there.
Econ is extremely busy and they're busy pretty much across all their offerings.
And Tobey I think as we've consistently said a lot of the work is prospective deals and so therefore if the moons align right for whatever reason either the markets or whatever fiscal holdbacks might be out there get either diminished then we would expect a bunch of these deals to mature in which case they're going to be very busy.
We're looking to add capacity across the board in a lot of these areas.
And so I think net-net -- in other words you may see some segments to stay flat and maybe see a slight decline in headcount while others go up significantly and I think that's the way the company is structured.
It is our plan to continue to use our share repurchase authorization.
We have no plans to accelerate that beyond the pace that you're seeing in the market now.
Moving on we'll take our next question in from Joe Foresi from Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff Rossetti on for Joe.
Just a question about the M&amp;A life cycle with respect to your business segments.
With the strength that you had in the Economic Consulting have you started to see some of the flow through in Technology with second requests work and has that started to impact your Strategic Communications segment yet? We have some interesting assignments in strategic communications on a few notable transactions that you guys are seeing in the papers.
We have not felt an impact yet on second requests.
Again most of the work we're doing on these M&amp;A assignments in Econ have not come to the fruition of actually public announcement and therefore you would not have Hart-Scott-Rodino running until the public announcement and that's when you would get the second request.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the acquisitions that you've announced so far I think in the release you mentioned maybe about $15 million so far in payments.
Have you -- are the multiples that you're paying is it something traditional around onetime revenue? I'm just trying to get a sense for with the Princeton Economics announcement what we can sort of anticipate going forward? The Princeton Economics transaction was more akin to a group hire and in fact took that form so it did not have significant upfront consideration when it adds up salaries bonuses and other compensation.
The other acquisitions done either in the quarter or at the end of the quarter would have purchase prices consistent with our historical experience probability a little bit on the lower side from a -- a lower multiple side on the earnings side because they're relatively small businesses.
But on a revenue basis they will be consistent.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Tim McHugh from William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First on the Technology business can you just -- I guess you gave us some color on the large cases winding off or winding down.
Do you have a sense for I guess what's the underlying business if we excluded those? Is it seeing decent growth? I know it's hard to maybe just splice them up but just trying to get a sense of the underlying trend there.
Well I mean -- it's Dennis Tim.
We definitely see a decent growth because you're replacing 2 of the biggest pieces of business we've ever had in the history of the company.
In fact the one was the biggest.
So just by starting to refill that you're having to have a lot of new growth.
Nothing has approached those 2 in scale.
Several are building each quarter and could turn into significant.
And a lot of the new ones yet are basically just in their infancy as far as trying to predict the magnitude.
But the answer is they're a good new business closing rate and it remains to be seen though how many of these -- it's tough in the beginning of these assignments when you start going in to understand the eventual buildup rate of billing and then the duration until you sort of get a couple of quarters under your belt.
So the answer of lots of activity lots of wins too early to tell what the sort of run rate off of some of them would be.
Some of them are looking promising that we wanted to enclose last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to dig in on the margins a little.
First I guess the corporate expenses were down a lot year-over-year.
And I know last year was kind of an abnormally high number somewhat.
But as we think about the year I guess how should we think about corporate expenses for the year? Should -- can they be down for this year on a full year basis? Tim it's Roger Carlile.
Essentially the net answer because of the acquisitions is no.
As you rightly recall that last year in the first quarter we were talking about a number of things that we did in the quarter that added to our SG&amp;A expense that would not recur and of course it did not recur in this quarter.
So in that regard that's a permanent reduction.
And as Jack mentioned in his commentary we are continuing to analyze how we've integrated our businesses and some of the operational processes looking for cost savings and we have been successful there as well.
However with the additions late last year of KMQ and Salter and then with C2 and Taylor Woodings the expenses that we have to support those add to SG&amp;A.
So I think that in terms -- I would look at that 2 ways.
First of all in terms of corporate expenses the way you thought of that I think we've got -- you're probably going to see that go back up so that the run rate for the year would be about $2 million less than it would have been if you annualize this quarter -- I think $2 million more if you annualize this quarter.
On a total basis for the company I think you're looking at a run rate back up to what it was last year for the remainder quarter.
So you have everything all in on a consolidated basis of around $103 million.
I think you're going to look at around $103 million in total for the forward year.
Some of that's up in the segments because of the acquisitions and Corporate would be down about $2 million annually off those run rates Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess if we look at some of the segments restructuring revenue was -- I mean it was up a little or kind of flattish without the acquisitions what -- but yet margins were down.
I know you moved some things but it still look like margins were down a decent amount.
Is that a mix shift or -- in terms of where the revenue was coming from? Or is there something else affecting it? Well I think again I think some of the geographic businesses offshore that are growing and maturing and getting scale that they don't have the same margins that we traditionally have in restructuring in the U.S.
where it's a more mature business.
Secondly some of the non-distressed work which is again growing becoming more important does not  command the size margins of distressed crisis-driven work so I think it's a combination of geographic mix against a slow to somewhat declining restructuring market in the U.S.
and then the impact on the business from non-distressed work some of which has extremely high margins some of which doesn't have as high.
And so on average it might look a little lower than crisis so that's a long-winded way of saying it's mix.
Moving next we'll go to David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> So a couple of quick questions.
First on the economics side with utilization of 89% you folks are doing a heck of a much better job than many of the competitors or if not all of the ones that we're aware of.
And just a couple of questions around that.
First from a hiring perspective it is -- is it as simple as doing tuck-ins there or sort of presumably as you said just finding more of the right people or would you think about doing a larger acquisition given that let's just say I mean your results are much better than some of the of the other industry folks? That's a hell of a good question.
I think on a hiring basis we are benefiting from just what I would call just top-of-the-market gold standard intellectual symmetry -- synergies.
We feel we have put together the finest group of economists in the world and they are a magnet to attract more people as Jack talked about the Princeton Economics Group these are outstanding practitioners and we're delighted to have them become affiliated with us.
So I guess number one it is a very attractive place to be a partner with the peers that we have working on that.
And clearly there are lots of opportunities that are driven by that peer group for new people to come in and work on.
I think this -- you have a halo effect from younger people coming in to support them.
I mean these are the top-of-the-market people here in Europe where we're sitting today and back in the States.
And so it has been -- it has not been a challenge for them to bring in the best and the brightest who want to spend time working with them supporting them doing a lot of research and model building.
As far as an external move is concerned we're always interested in value.
I think that as you know David we're not afraid to do bigger deals we've done them before.
But I think there has to be a compelling strategic reason and that would have to be a complementary enhancement of quality or possibly taking us into a different aspect of economics one that we're already very dominant in.
It would be a little hard to justify anything but sort of a bargain price to add more capacity.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay fair.
But short of that we should expect a bit more hiring and presumably maybe some more tuck-ins in that area? Yes.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Randle Reece from Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clearly I'm going to have to start thinking about your Econ business in a different way.
Maybe we could just talk a little bit about how the curve works here.
When you see these engagements work and how they flow over time and what indication we get from what's going on now and how it reflects on expectations for future quarters.
You've got about 4 and I'm going to try to answer the question for you.
We've got about 4 major practice areas that are all benefiting from increased demand.
One I think we've touched on quite a bit and that's competition.
And that's driven by M&amp;A.
In this case it's predominantly prospective M&amp;A although our guys were involved in 2 of the more notable deals that you've been reading about in the last 12 months that have been somewhat contentious.
Competition benefits from M&amp;A but also it benefits from stepped-up governmental inquiry and stepped-up government regulatory efforts.
So we are clearly busier here in Europe and also back in the States as a result of increased governmental intervention or investigation and action in regards to a wide variety of competition issues.
International arbitration is becoming a venue of choice for many global companies to settle disputes especially as they pertain to non-U.S.
operations.
And our economists I think we have something like 15 of the top-20-ranked experts in the international arbitration panel that's been set up for the big international law firms.
And so they are very busy in arbitration work in France in Singapore and in the States.
And then finally we are doing extremely well in what I would call high-stakes securities litigation.
So as you see a lot of litigation that has now matured part of it might be the residual effects of all the mortgage-backed securities issues the investigations and things like that that are now sort of worked their way through the system to where now people who have lost money on a principle basis are suing civilly.
We are in many of those cases.
And again the financial institutions as you are well aware have been targets of lots of litigation related to a wide variety of activities and actions.
And we are I would say at the forefront in a lot of the defense work in those litigations.
So it's sort of -- the drivers are on all 4.
The duration just changes based on what we're talking about.
The litigation could go on for a long time and have a long runway.
Arbitration I think to a certain extent would track that.
It's just different venue.
It might be a little shorter.
And then the M&amp;A side tends to be much quicker.
You're either going to eventually do something or not do something and then when it does happen both sides of the deal hope for a reasonably short window of 90 to maybe 180 days of activity to get the deals done.
So the M&amp;A side might be as short as 90-day types of assignments to maybe 6 months.
And the competition could look more like litigation to where there might be antitrust pricing issues competition issues.
And again that could be everything from investigation long discussions with governmental regulatory bodies and eventually could end up in court.
So that would have a longer runway.
Shortest would be M&amp;A longest would probably be the security cases where everything may be falling in between.
LLC Research Division</strong> Pretty good.
Do you -- let's say how much of the business do you think is getting out of that rack? It's it been in between having a growth catalyst or having kind of a negative or recession catalyst where you've been in between and it's not necessarily good for demand.
Yes.
Well I mean I think people always ask how we root.
We'd rather root for more robust growth because it benefits more broadly everything we do.
I think restructuring in the states has been a fairly dormant practice for the last 2 years and we don't see anything on the horizon right now short of some specific industry challenges in retail and things like that that would tell us we should expect any kind of robust restructuring in the States.
On the other hand you're as aware if not more than we are of what's going on over in Europe and there I think we'll benefit from the stresses of the economy and the stresses in the lending system over here are having on some of -- corporate clients.
And I think we're seeing the same thing in Australia which is one of the reasons we've made such a commitment to beef up capacity there because we think to demand.
So geographically I would say that if you just simply go by what our biggest market is in the State we would say that we're not looking for a robust restructuring.
On the other hand we don't see a lot of macro drivers to the positive here in Europe and the States seem to still be in that 2% type of growth rate.
Asia is doing well.
Latin America slowed down a little bit but it snapped back actually pretty quickly the last 2 months.
So I'm afraid we still feel that there's a bias more to the treading of water for the world economy which is probably not the greatest environment to be a consulting company in.
But I think we firmly believe M&amp;A is going to shake out.
We've said this before and I don't think we've changed our mind.
There's too much capital liquidity sitting on the books of these companies.
There's the debt.
It's at historic low borrowing rates and most industries are not experiencing much if any organic growth.
So we think that a lot of the deals we're looking at some of them are industry-changing potential deals.
And if the triggers get pulled on them I think it's only going to take a couple to start to stampede.
I think the other thing to be cognizant of is there are a lot of giant private equity firms that have an awful lot of capital they have to deploy.
And some of them are facing use-it-or-lose-it types of clauses in their funds where they have to put it out or they'll lose the ability to pull it down and some of them just simply have successful fundraising based on performance and have to get the money to work.
So we think the velocity of capital investment should pick up in that takeover area and both would stimulate each other.
More strategic combinations I think would accelerate private equity investment.
More private equity successful deals will stimulate the strategics to pull the trigger.
So I think the backlog that we're seeing building how busy the economists are is an optimistic note.
But again as of yet some of the most exciting ones that we're working on have -- they have not pulled the trigger so we just have to see.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Bill Sutherland from Northland Capital markets.
Research Division</strong> Dennis while you're on that thought with the Econ group and M&amp;A does it feel to you like maybe it's just the scale of some of these but are they stretching longer than they normally would in this planning process? I mean I'll ask everybody here to jump in.
I think that a lot of it is the -- I think the desire for companies' deals is there and that's why we're being hired.
I think the last thing they want to have happen is to be embarrassed and spend a lot of money and they can't get the deals done.
So I think they're doing their homework in advance rather than making the assumption the deals are going through and sort of hire us when the deals come to fruition.
Your speculation and I'd ask the guys sitting here with me about why they're not pulling the trigger I think we can start with a wide variety of things.
But I think there is a reluctance call it the market; call it fiscal threats to the market; call it an embarrassment factor where you don't want to see the market sell off significantly and you've got an exchange rate that looked great the day you put it on and it looks terrible 4 weeks 6 weeks into a deal; call it fear of governmental interference that could screw a market up.
I mean anything else guys? Yes.
It's Dave Bannister.
I just had the chance over the last few weeks to spend some time with some of the M&amp;A bankers at places like Goldman Morgan Stanley and what have you chatting on just that issue was they would say from their perspective and they obviously tend to be involved in these things as well sometimes at a slightly different level is that it's hard to get Boards of Directors to pull the trigger right now on transactions that are significant what have you because there doesn't seem to be a benefit to hurrying.
There's -- the stock markets aren't recognizing the strategic kind of acquisitions in a friendly kind of a way.
There's a lot of shareholder activism around returning capital as opposed to growing businesses strategically.
And so there's just a bit of a hesitancy to trek ahead on some of these things.
Their view would be at the end of the day companies need to start growing and doing something when they don't have significant organic growth opportunities in a 2% GDP economy that eventually the companies will feel the need to get moving and get some growth in and expand their businesses and expand their capabilities.
But there is a certain reticence.
I think it's -- it's Roger Carlile.
Rick Fisher of the Dallas Federal Reserve Bank spoke with us Fed President spoke this week and he spoke on this issue.
And what he said was that it was his opinion that there's still a fair amount of uncertainty in the business leaders space notwithstanding we've had some tax law changes in the United States we've had the sequester occurring.
His view was -- is that business leaders are still uncertain as to exactly what taxation and tax rates are going to be in the future exactly what government spending is going to be in the future and that all of that creates uncertainty in the market and it's hard for entities to price deals into that uncertainty because you don't want to have overpaid to find out that the markets don't act the way that you expect them to for your goods or services.
So he was putting that some of this hesitancy squarely on the laps of Washington D.C.
for those issues.
Research Division</strong> That's good color.
On the last quarter call you guys talked about the pricing pressures in Europe and you were going -- and the impact of margins have you been able to offset any of that pressure or are there -- you think you'll be able to? I'm not sure I understood your question.
Pricing pressure in Europe generally or for any given service segment? Research Division</strong> Well I'm trying to remember which group you were maybe directly referring to.
I think it might have been Corp Fin.
And you did mention that that was having an impact on your margin [indiscernible] I think generally speaking -- yes with respect to pricing I think we probably have the same commentary at least on a global basis for a while which was that our Economic Consulting group has pricing power for the issues we've spoken about today and in the past that demand is good the talent is strong it attracts the cases that we have the pricing power there and I think that's true whether you're talking about the North America or the Europe -- European markets or U.K.
It's probably not.
It's maybe a little less strong in Europe and U.K.
just because of the general economic environment but still they have pricing power.
When you look at our other services it varies a bit but there's -- it's certainly very little or no pricing power to slight pricing power in those other segments.
And I think that's fairly universal except as we spoke about with Corporate Finance in Europe EMEA that region as Dennis said earlier they just had a good quarter.
They're performing well.
And so there is a I don't know if I'll call it pricing power but there's probably a little better feel on that issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's improved then.
And then do you feel like the U.S.
Restructuring businesses is kind of in a new normal or you think it could tail off a bit more? Well again I would say the classic restructuring would not have an up year and probably would have a decline.
The default rates and the liquidity in the marketplace certainly argues that that would be the result in the States.
It's being offset by non-distressed business services that we're offering inside of that group so a lot of these people can work on obviously distressed assignment as well as non-distressed.
And so oftentimes that doesn't yield you the same margin as you can imagine as a crisis-type of assignment.
But we would not be thinking that in the U.S.
barring some unforeseen event that you would have a frothy restructuring market this year.
Research Division</strong> That's okay.
And then last.
Since you're kind of carving out health care here a bit more maybe we could talk about how you're see the growth for that group particular competencies maybe where you want to expand it? It's Dave Bannister.
The health services or health solutions as we call it practice is a very important one for us.
We are certainly smaller than some competitors in that business but a very significant player nonetheless.
We have pretty strong plans for that.
That's one of the reasons we put the group together and put up a houseful of the people under one leader and a team of folks to really have them collaborate broadly across the service offerings to serve that industry.
As you know it represents somewhere between 17% and 20% of the GDP depending on what you include in the definition.
So -- and it's an industry that is faced with many many challenges and problems whether it's Obamacare or Social Security and Medicare or Medicaid and simply just dramatically rising costs.
So longer term we're pretty ambitious in that space and expect to be doing a number of things to grow that business aggressively.
Moving on we'll take our last question from Ato Garrett from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Previously you guys have mentioned a revenue run rate for the Corporate Finance and Restructuring segment being between about $100 million to $110 million.
And I was wondering now given this transfer of the health care business should we now think about that as coming down commensurately to about $85 million $95 million? The math would be as follows -- that's a run rate that we've used historically.
We've added 2 acquisitions.
Between the 2 of them 1 was in the first quarter 1 will start the beginning of the second quarter would add roughly $8 million to $12 million per quarter of revenue.
So call it around $40 million a year of an increase in the run rate and a decrease of roughly $68 million or $70 million from the health services business being moved into -- being reclassified into a different segment.
Research Division</strong> And that's on an annual basis that the decline was roughly $68 million? Correct.
It was $70 million for the quarter wasn't it Roger? Yes.
Exactly David.
One way to think about that is maybe to reconcile it the other way which is with health solutions out of Corporate Finance's numbers for the first quarter they were $99 million in revenue.
You add the $17 million to that you're $116 million.
So that puts you right in -- that $116 million the way to think of that is we had said $100 million to $110 million we added KMQ which I think we gave guidance of around $5 million a quarter.
So we're saved now $105 million to $115 million.
And then if you put Taylor Woodings in that of roughly the same size you'd say you're around $110 million to $120 million.
So that back in the old reporting format you would've been $116 million right in the range of $110 million to $120 million.
We have not restated what we think that is looking forward given the current basis but that's where it ran for this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it great.
And then looking at the margins within the Technology division I'm seeing we had a pretty good Q-on-Q decline there.
Is that primarily due to winding down of those 2 large engagements or is there additional pricing pressure that might have contributed to that as well? Repeat which segment you referred to again? Research Division</strong> Technology.
Technology? And you said [indiscernible] you said margins were down? Research Division</strong> Yes Q-on-Q it looks like.
I don't think so.
I think they're up.
Yes we're up.
Adjusted EBITDA margin went from 26.6% to 29.4% on the quarter.
At this time that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
I just want to thank everybody for being with us this morning and we'll look forward to speaking with you after the next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That will conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Mollie Hawkes of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's second quarter 2013 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions related to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of risk factors and forward-looking information in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28 2013 the current report Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 21 2013 and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer of FTI Consulting.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you Mollie.
Welcome and thank you for joining us today to discuss our second quarter 2013 results and guidance for the remainder of the year.
With me on the call are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and David Bannister our Chairman of North America.
This morning we announced our second quarter results and by now I hope all of you have had a chance to review them.
If not as Mollie said they can be found on our website at www.fticonsulting.com.
For the quarter revenues for the company increased 5% year-over-year to $414.6 million.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.58.
As we said in the press release however the most significant factor affecting the quarter's performance and our reduced guidance for the year was slowing demand for bankruptcy and restructuring work in North America.
Record levels of new speculative grade and structured finance offerings and the continuation of the Fed's policy of quantitative easing have resulted in lower-than-expected default rates and demand for bankruptcy and restructuring services.
To give this some perspective during the first half of 2013 approximately $790 billion of speculative-grade loans and high-yield bonds were issued.
This compares to $445 billion in the first half of 2012 and $990 billion in all of 2012.
In the institutional loan market a record $385 billion was issued of which only approximately 25% was new money compared to a historical average of 50%.
The vast majority of the funding went to recapitalize and refinance existing transactions as opposed to funding buyouts mergers or new transactions.
All of this refinancing activity and the easy money policy of the Fed have sustained default rates at historically low levels.
As we look further into the future however the record level of highly levered debt outstanding over the long term should create the potential for significant engagements when interest rates and default rates progress to more normal levels.
As a result we have reduced our guidance for 2013 and now estimate that revenues for 2013 will be between $1.62 billion and $1.65 billion and adjusted EPS will be between $2.10 and $2.20.
Now turning to the results for the quarter.
Our Economic Consulting segment continued its excellent performance.
Second quarter revenues of $111 million increased 12% year-over-year.
Revenues were driven by continued strong demand for our antitrust litigation services in North America and Europe and international arbitration services in Europe.
In Corporate Finance/Restructuring second quarter revenues were $96.7 million.
Our recently acquired businesses contributed $13 million in revenues during the quarter.
In addition we saw improved performance in Europe and in our telecommunications media and technology practice.
As we discussed however these revenue contributions were offset by weakness in our core North America bankruptcy and restructuring business.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting second quarter revenues were $105.1 million.
This included 12% year-over-year revenue growth in the health solutions practice and strengthened our U.S.
financial and enterprise data analytics practice while demand for North America investigations and trial services practices were soft.
Looking forward we believe the appointment of Mary Jo White as the Chair of the SEC and the formation of the financial recording and audit task force may signal an increased emphasis on enforcement in the future.
In technology revenues of $51.2 million increased 7% year-over-year even as revenues from large legacy cases continued to burn off.
M&amp;A-related second request matters contributed to the increase in the quarter.
New matters and unique clients with new matters also increased significantly during the quarter reflecting the benefit of our increased strategic investments in sales and marketing personnel.
As a reminder though we have one large matter that is rapidly drawing to a close.
The decline of that matter reduced first half revenue by $12 million compared to the prior year and is expected to reduce second half revenues by approximately $20 million.
As a consequence we expect revenue for this segment to decrease somewhat for the back half of the year compared to the first half.
During the quarter Gartner named our Technology segment to the leaders quadrant of its annual Gartner Magic Quadrant for E-Discovery Software report.
The strengths cited in Gartner's report are based on client references and are a testament to the quality of our -- of the work of our technology professionals that they perform on a daily basis.
Gartner's leader ranking reflects our ability to provide a smart and comprehensive approach that improves the E-Discovery process contains costs and manages critical enterprise information demand.
At Strategic Communications revenues of $50.6 million increased 8% year-over-year.
Our efforts to diversify our offering by building out our public affairs capabilities were evident in second quarter results with the acquisition of the C2 Group a U.S.
public policy group acquired in March of 2013.
The group which focuses on detailed analytics to provide advice to clients joined us during the quarter and contributed $1.5 million of revenues.
Just as importantly it provided us with entrée to additional opportunities as clients increasingly seek informed advocacy services in the pursuit of legislative and regulatory outcomes.
The remaining revenue growth was largely due to improved project income in North America and in Europe Middle East and Africa and increased pass-through revenues for certain North America retained engagements.
We are pleased that we continue to top the mergermarket M&amp;A lead tables and M&amp;A deal volume globally in the second quarter.
According to mergermarket however announced deals in the quarter remained depressed.
M&amp;A volumes declined 19% year-over-year and M&amp;A deal values dropped 15% year-over-year.
That said mergermarket also reported that second quarter early-stage M&amp;A activity jumped 14% year-over-year and 24% sequentially marking the biggest quarterly boost that mergermarket has witnessed since it started tracking early-stage M&amp;A 5 years ago.
In our Economic Consulting segment we have also begun to feel increased M&amp;A activity.
And as noted Technology saw a nice increase in second request work.
If these factors indeed combine to signal a positive trend in M&amp;A activity that would be a very positive development benefiting our entire company.
From a geographic perspective Asia-Pacific revenue increased 28% year-over-year.
The increase was largely driven by revenue contributions from the acquired businesses we mentioned in Australia as this region continues to gain broader strategic significance to our firm.
Our expanded network in Australia promotes increased synergies with our already established businesses there.
And we have now offices in 5 cities 4 established segment leaders and 244 employees there.
Forensic and Litigation Consulting also contributed to year-over-year revenue growth with a 10% year-over-year increase driven by growth in our construction solutions and global risk and investigation practices.
In EMEA revenues increased 16% year-over-year.
Revenue increases were driven by year-over-year increases in our Economic Consulting Corporate Finance/Restructuring and Technology segments.
Our Economic Consulting revenues improved 35% year-over-year and margins are approaching those achieved in the U.S.
Economic Consulting benefited from the strength of our European international arbitration practice as our London-based ECON consulting professionals were highly utilized during the quarter.
We also saw up an uptick in demand for Europe-based energy engagements during the quarter.
In Corporate Finance/Restructuring we benefited from several large engagements in our U.K.
restructuring practice resulting in year-over-year revenue and adjusted EBITDA improvements.
In North America revenues increased 1% year-over-year.
This increase was driven by continued strength in our Economic Consulting.
But as noted these increases were offset by revenue declines in our North American bankruptcy and restructuring and our U.S.
investigations practices.
In Latin America revenues declined 14% year-over-year.
The declines in Corporate Finance and Restructuring more than offset good trends that we saw in Brazil and Mexico.
With that brief overview I will now turn it over to Roger to provide more color on the quarter.
Roger? Thank you Jack.
As mentioned in our press release our results included 2 noncash items which had an offsetting effect on our adjusted EPS and increased our adjusted EBITDA by $4.1 million as compared to the prior year quarter.
The first is a revaluation gain resulting from the revaluation of an acquisition-related contingent consideration liability commonly referred to as an earnout liability.
The reduction of this liability was recorded as income and is included with the acquisition-related contingent consideration line in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
This revaluation gain increased adjusted EBITDA for the quarter by $8.2 million increasing adjusted segment EBITDA of the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment by $6.3 million and the adjusted segment EBITDA of the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment by $1.9 million.
It also increased EPS and adjusted EPS for the quarter by $0.18.
The second quarter of 2012 also included a similar revaluation gain which increased adjusted EBITDA by $4.1 million in that quarter increasing Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment's adjusted segment EBITDA by $3.8 million and adjusted segment EBITDA for the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment by $300 000 and it increased EPS -- adjusted EPS for the prior year quarter by $0.08.
The second noncash item was a valuation reserve of $6.9 million which was recorded to reduce the deferred tax asset related to foreign tax credits which based on the current assessment may not be realizable in the future.
This reserve is based on future estimates of foreign-sourced income that's recorded as an increase in income tax expense for the quarter.
This item reduced both EPS and adjusted EPS in the quarter by $0.17.
Finally to update our guidance on cash flows.
We currently expect our cash from operations for 2013 to be between $200 million and $225 million and for our capital expenditures for the year to be between $42 million and $47 million.
The $10 million increase above our previous capital expenditure guidance was primarily to changed structure and timing of payments related to the finish-out of our new London office which is expected to be occupied early next year.
With that I'll turn the call back to you Jack.
All right.
With that we'll turn it over for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question we'll hear from Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
I wonder if you could give us a sense on the Economic Consulting side given the pickup in capital markets I would have thought we would have seen a little more of an uptick there.
Is -- any kind of just thoughts on the back half of the year whether that could offset some of the [indiscernible] we're seeing on the Corporate Finance/Restructuring side? Okay it's Dennis Kevin.
They're already obviously producing significant year-over-year gains.
And I think that we have a lot of retentions in M&amp;A which are influenced by capital markets.
And we have a lot of retentions in complex litigation and have gotten some very potentially large ones recently of sort of front page news cases that you guys have been reading about.
They would have the influence depending on how these cases take off to move that number upwards.
So you do have some upward possible expansion of that second quarter -- I'm sorry second half forecast for ECON.
On the other hand remember they already are producing an excellent year double-digit growth and so I think we have to be a little careful about expecting too much more out of that.
But that would be one area where we would have upside leverage.
Got it.
And then just on the Corporate Finance/Restructuring any sense -- are we kind of in a new range of margins for that business just given -- obviously with the Fed easy money or -- as that starts to run off is that something that we think snaps back sooner rather than later in the States? And then just any thoughts on that business in Europe as well.
Is Europe starting to feel a little better and that is part of the reason for the adjustment to the guidance or was it primarily U.S.
at this point and we'll see the way Europe plays out over the balance of the year? It's Dave Bannister.
Let me try and give you a little more color on how we got to where we are there and see if that helps answer your question.
Like many companies we start building our budgets in the fall of the year.
And last fall default rates in the U.S.
according to S&amp;P were going from an average in the year of 2% to 2.5% up to 3% by September last year.
Remember the long-term average of those default rates is around 4.5% so not a robust market but an apparently improving market.
More importantly the S&amp;P was forecasting forward level default rates of about 3.7%.
So in putting together our budgets and eventually our guidance we assumed the level of around 3% which is where it was when we prepared the budgets and pretty significantly below what S&amp;P was projecting.
In fact what we've experienced this year is levels of around 2.5% through the year so a full almost 20% below what we had expected and probably almost 40% below what S&amp;P was expecting.
So it has clearly been a much slower market than we expected during the year.
And you can see the consequence that -- of that in a number of our numbers.
So for example you'll see the revenue proportion of that business is down about 20%.
Folks are scrambling to get work.
Pricing becomes more challenging as there is capacity chasing the few deals that are getting done.
But as Jack pointed out in his comments we recognize there was a massive amount of refinancing and a massive amount of new issuance in high-yield or speculative grade debt that as things regress to the norm should eventually provide backlog for us.
We don't know when that can change.
We don't know when the Fed may start slowing down the quantitative easing but things generally work back to more normalized levels.
So we're not believing this is a business that's permanently injured but rather one that is operating at very very low levels of demand and is working hard to get the work they can do.
So Dennis or Jack do you want to elaborate on that? Well I think specifically on your question the problem is in North America.
In Europe we're having an excellent year.
We had some new -- very good new business acquisitions.
And we actually made a conscious decision to make an investment to even expand and beef up our transactional support group over there.
We have been able to attract from the top talent from one of the accounting firms there.
That will be an investment that will look like a $0.07 to $0.08 investment this year because of obviously restrictions on when they can begin to work and start paying.
But we felt so strongly about the potential in the individuals and the opportunity to get them that even in a slow year for corporate finance globally we decided to make this investment.
And so that $0.07 clearly is part of the penalty that we're going to incur in the second half and brought our guidance down.
But far and away the bulk of the problem is in North America.
And you've been reading about several major retailers and the fact that they have had serious operational sales problems.
There was lots of speculation about what would happen to them were they going to have to formally restructure we anticipated significant assignments in some of those.
On the other hand they were able to receive increased financing.
And we'll just have to see whether they'll operate -- whether that bought them enough time to change their operations or whether they'll have to in fact engage in a formal restructuring in which case they would be very large assignments and we would expect as we normally would to participate in those.
But the problems in North America you're right the business that you're getting right now that's smaller obviously has lower margins.
It's more complex as far as manning and you simply don't have the ability to get to streamline margins that you do.
And then you have to be realistic about your costs.
I think we're trying -- we're assessing what our personnel complement needs to be in view of this demand curve.
We're making adjustments to that as we speak.
And I think on the other hand these practices are built for the long term as the company is and you certainly aren't going to do anything radical because we're in -- granted a historical lull as far as default rates as David said.
So the problem specifically is in North America.
We're on budget in Australia we look very strong in Singapore and we anticipate a stronger second half in Latin America and in restructuring.
And in Europe as we said with the exception of the penalty that we consciously agreed to make in the investment on the transaction support guys they will have a good year.
It really resides in North America and I think that we just have to be cautious.
And we're trying to give you the best flavor we can of what we see in the second half.
That's helpful.
And then just one more if I could.
Is it a scenario where some associates from North America can be redeployed to Europe from a utilization perspective longer-term? Do they have similar skill sets or is it pretty siloed from a consultant perspective? It's not that easy.
It sounds easy.
And people who have certain industry expertise obviously they move around.
But then you have to have matching language skills and things like that.
The rules and everything in Europe are statutorily significantly different than over here so while your general expertise of analysts help it's just very very expensive to do it that way.
And so I think the challenge is more to get the personnel complement aligned right for our expectations here in North America and grow in situ the other parts of the world that seemed to have a little more tailwind.
And next we'll move to Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> Just take a little bit time here and help us understand the new guide by service line.
I think you had mentioned that $0.07 is coming from an investment but are we taking down restructuring and technology? How are we thinking about the run rates of the individual businesses in the new guidance? Yes Joe it's Roger Carlile.
I think when you look at the guidance versus -- as David mentioned earlier if you look at the guidance versus where we were the guidance we gave at the beginning of the year the real change is the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment.
It was mentioned that the real impact there is in North America.
If you look at the other businesses they generally as we said Economic Consulting is performing strongly a little bit better than we expected.
Technology in the first half of the year was performing better than we expected because we were forecasting a bit more severe burn-off of some of those legacy cases that we mentioned.
Strat Comm is doing about as we thought and FLC is doing a shade less than we thought at that time.
So I think really when you look going forward that's all I think in our forecast fairly stable in those regards other than the comments about Tech where we think the back half of the year could still be down from the first half of the year because of the legacy case burn-off.
And the real change is attributed to Corporate Finance/Restructuring coming in below.
As you can see from those numbers essentially the acquired revenue was fully offset by the miss in North America.
So I think that's the issue we're facing as we look forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But I mean if you look at the sort of the numbers here is it a balance between Tech and Corp Fin? But it sounds like you're saying that most of it is coming from Corp Fin because that's a pretty considerable drop that you're expecting in that business in the back half of the year.
So I'm just trying to make sure that I balance it out as I look at the numbers.
Yes I think you can think of it being primarily Corp Fin but a little bit of Tech down in the back half compared to the first half.
Tech actually it's probably had one of the best new business halves that they've had in 3 or 4 years.
It's just the 2 assignments that are burning off and will end literally as we speak now and over the next 120 days.
We're so huge that they're just having to replace a big hole.
They're being successful in doing it but it makes us reluctant to forecast that they could beat the year's projections.
So they most likely will be somewhat down in the second half based simply on timing.
But the new business side of it actually looks extremely good.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
You've seen the ebbs and flows for I guess probably a number of different years in the restructuring business.
How quickly can business come back there from an interest rate perspective? And let's assume that we stay at this level or near this level for an extended period of time what are the catalysts you see in the business that could maybe compensate for it -- not improve it? I'll start.
I mean if we stay at this level for an extended period of time it says that you have probably replaced maybe some artificial funding from the Fed and sort of aggressive management of the capital markets with real solid economic growth.
If you have real solid economic growth we know the companies have historically high liquidity on their balance sheets their stocks have returned to more favorable valuations.
I think -- but there's not a lot of external organic growth.
So you're going to see M&amp;A and you're going to see capital markets work.
So the company -- everybody asks us how do you bet long term? Well we would rather bet for robust economies and robust capital markets.
We would benefit much more if restructuring longer-term paid down because of tailwinds coming out of frothier economic news.
So I think something has to give.
You're either going to see sort of this artificially managed cost of funds that we have.
And it'll start to release and we'll return to something more akin to probably default rates that we were used to over time now whether it hops back to 4%.
But you talked about how quickly it only takes 2 or 3 major companies that you guys have been reading about struggling and having bad operational problems to have to file.
And if that's the case these assignments as we've seen from large assignments that we've had in the past can be extremely big.
And they start off quickly and the actual first year tends to be the most intense because of the amount of time that you put on it.
So it can turn very quickly.
Forecasting that is dangerous especially in view of the fact that again the supposed experts in this have missed it so badly in the rating agencies and we certainly haven't been much better.
But I think it's really a dual track.
If it stays the way it is for a prolonged period of time the driver of that has to be good economic news and we have huge upside there in our businesses.
If it doesn't stay that way it can then swing quickly and we would be a major beneficiary of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe you can give us some idea of what the size of your healthcare practice is now and what vertical that's in and some of the resources that you're devoting to that? Yes as you know we realigned that business in a way that we could -- we thought we could take it to market more successfully.
So we -- earlier this year we took groups that were already working together but not sort of administratively or managerially going to market together out of our Corporate Finance and FLC businesses and brought those together.
And it's fully reported within the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment now.
That practice is running in the range of $100 million a year.
It's growing at double-digit rates around 12% in this quarter.
But I think you'll see that growth rate pick up as they are able to get sort of -- the kinks worked out of being together and having their unified go-to-market strategies.
So I think we're very excited about where that business is and where it's headed.
I'll add a little bit there too.
Our challenge there really is recruiting enough headcount.
So that one is one where we had business we had work to do and we're challenged and actively out looking for folks to add to that business.
It doesn't require more specialized skill sets they're not ubiquitous you can't simply move people into it.
We actually have physicians and clinicians and so forth in that practice doing work inside of hospitals but we think there's very -- as other companies have reported we were seeing very strong demand in that area.
And next we'll move to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First I just want to ask about the Technology segment.
The $20 million is that relative to the first half of the year or is that -- was that a year-over-year comparison? That's year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess factoring that in where would we sit as we get to the end of 2013 with those large cases? Could you -- I guess that's the question? Yes one of them has extinguished to the point of insignificance.
The other one will stop to the point of non-materiality.
So we have relationships with both of the companies.
And it doesn't mean we won't continue to do business but nothing like we experienced because both of the issues have finally settled.
So you might see something Tim.
You might see something like $1 million $1.5 million-a-month relationships with people that just simply are ongoing type of relationships but nothing like we experienced in the past.
So the difference year-over-year in the second half is about $20 million and the difference year-over-year in the first half was about $13 million.
And in all honesty we thought that would end somewhat sooner.
So the first half benefited from some follow-on work we had to do in wrapping up some of these.
Research Division</strong> So it may still be a year-over-year drag in the early part of '14 but if we looked at the quarterly run rate towards the end of '13 that should be closer to a kind of post -- post those large cases a steady state? Correct.
That's a good way of putting it.
You still have revenue in the first 2 quarters from predominantly one of the relationships.
And so that would -- you would be lapping that obviously at a much lower level than we're lapping it first half of this year.
But it will end as far as being a material impact on the results predominantly third quarter for sure and the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And I guess you talked about some strong new business and I guess specifically sounds around second requests.
I know those can be lumpy but what is your -- excluding those large cases is the outlook improved? Do you feel better about that given the new case wins and I guess the sustainability of the second requests were.
Yes Tim it's Dave.
In the quarter we had about approximately 28% growth if you ignore the effect of that one big case.
So we're very bullish on the new business efforts in that area.
It's not just second requests.
That growth also was in existing areas such as financial services and financial institutions and significant business there legacy relationship with large pharmaceutical companies and other sorts of matters.
So it's -- I would say the -- what we're most excited about is between the reemergence in the Magic Quadrant of our -- the totality of our practice and the recognition of our peers and our customers of how well we're doing in terms of providing service there the Gartner report and the release of Ringtail 8.3 which has really gotten us in the game and in fact ahead of the game in terms of the way clients and users of the products interact with the underlying robust technology.
We're pretty encouraged about our ability to keep winning business there and working on important matters.
But what's really gratifying is we had those kinds of growth numbers in the first quarter despite that very heavy lapping of -- very important piece of business one we're not going to apologize for but really a lot of hard work to drive a 28% growth rate away from that one engagement.
So I think that's a testament to how well that product is working and those people are working.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just on the restructuring side are you seeing the business actually kind of trend down sequentially? Or is it -- did you -- I'm trying to understand did you expect it to pick up as the year progressed and you're just not seeing the pickup? I guess I'm trying to understand is it getting weaker or it's just not picking up the way you thought it was going to? Yes to both questions.
I think number one there were some relationships we had that probably ended faster than we thought.
So they might have thought that they had longer runway to replace them so that's just an absolute trend down.
And number two it's the big assignments.
We simply aren't seeing the big assignments because the companies that are large and have the most operational issues also have the most access to capital right now.
So we are seeing a definite trend in defaults that is not coming back anywhere near historical trend lines.
And clearly from what we hear from our peers in the market they're witnessing the same thing.
So I think you could see from bankruptcy filings there had been very few big bankruptcy filings.
And again I think that is why we adjusted the second half as much as we've adjusted it because we simply don't -- we just don't see the business there right now although it can obviously snap back quickly in that area.
Tim it's Roger.
I think if you look at the press release and think about that we acquire -- businesses have been very successful to us are important markets in that segment in both Australia and in our valuation of financial advisory services group but that's $13 million of revenue and we are essentially flat.
So that $13 million of organic decline which is primarily in North America that shows you the level of impact of just going down from where we were even if we had planned for the rest of the year to be flat.
And we'll move on to David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a little bit of follow-up on changes at the SEC and sort of how that affects us.
I think if we look at the landscape it seems to be playing out pretty closely along the lines of what you expected if we go back a year or so ago with change in leadership reramp in lieutenants.
But a lot of that is now in position from what we can tell.
So just wanted to get a sense for thinking there as to how long it may take for that to ramp up a little more and maybe more meaningfully enough for us to see some benefit at FLC.
Well we would be benefiting in FLC and in ECON because obviously FLC on the investigative side support side and then ECON often on the damage expert test volume side.
The -- we are feeling the benefit of that changeover as we speak.
And so we have been retained in some very notable cases that have been launched recently or announced recently or at least come to sort of a more combative position recently.
And I think our feeling is that it is a priority in the latter part of this administration's term that they do want to show success in prosecuting what they feel are excesses.
And so we would expect that we and others will benefit from increased say lack of settlement more of a pugnacious attitude taking it to trial trying to get criminal verdicts David as well as civil.
So I think they're going for things now that obviously start to argue that people have big fights on their hands or that they're fighting in some cases for their -- for institutional lives.
So those are obviously ones that tend to involve a lot of work from people like ourselves.
David it's Roger.
I think for that -- for the FLC business it's been a while.
You've heard us talk for 12 months to 18 months probably about the depressed SEC activity heading into the elections and how we thought things could change once you had -- you got past the election you had a new Chair for the SEC named and I think you're seeing that.
I think other things around the world are positive.
So I mean it remains to be seen how it all plays out for us as we go forward.
But the trends for the Forensic and Litigation Consulting business particularly in sort of the forensic investigation side I think are as positive as they have been in a while.
You've heard Jack joke in the past about whether integrity has broken out in all places around the world but the appearance of integrity may be breaking out in some places of the world because you had again today the second announcement of the Chinese government looking at bribery allegations for another foreign pharmaceutical.
And so I think as you look around the world it seems to be that the companies are coming around to -- I think you'll see more of the FCPA the bribery investigations.
You have the SEC talking about getting back to their financial reporting task force and investigations teams.
So I think -- well again it remains to be seen how it plays out but those are some things that haven't been happening in the marketplace for that business for a while.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay fair enough.
And then one other when we think about the adjustments in guidance and we think about top line reduction versus bottom line you called out $0.07 for investment in Europe.
But I guess more broadly should we think about the rest of the variances just negative operating leverage? And also with that are there cost adjustments that you might be able to make in the next few months? Well clearly we're looking hard at all costs across the whole company.
I think David I mean it sounds like a cliche but I mean most of the issue the issue is not revenue it's about mix.
And you can see the revenues are reduced that much because we're replacing revenue in other areas.
But unfortunately the revenue that's replacing it does not have traditionally -- our highest consulting margin is in restructuring.
And so you are replacing maybe at the margin the 30%-plus type of contribution with businesses -- we'll just pick economics which traditionally has been around a 20% margin business with robust growth by economics.
But that's 10 margin points as you trade $1 for another.
So I think that the issue isn't so much the revenue line.
As I said we didn't adjust it that much.
The issue really is the mix.
And so you're seeing we anticipate growth in the second half in ECON.
We anticipate -- actually we have good tailwinds we're seeing now behind Strat Comm.
They have a stronger second half.
The view of -- we finally had our first really good contentious M&amp;A fight that we were involved in here in the States.
And the capital markets in London have opened up and there are capital transactions and obviously given our market share there we'll benefit for that.
So again they tend to be a lower margin business so you're seeing ECON have strong -- you're seeing that move up.
And then again I think the margin trade-off on Tech is just simply where you have one of your biggest relationships it's easier to manage it it's easier to man it you tend to make more margins on even though pricing is the same than a lot -- than say a basket of smaller ones where you might have the same pricing but it just is going to be more difficult to service it and get the margins.
So you're seeing some margin erosion there in the second half because you're replacing one giant job that was extremely profitable because of our ability to manage it with a whole series of smaller ones.
And so again it's not a revenue issue as much as it is a mix issue.
And I think Dennis to add to you it's not just the mix of bigger jobs smaller jobs but for example in Corporate Finance and as David mentioned working hard to generate that revenue a lot of that revenue is now non-distressed or less distressed types of services.
They don't carry quite the same margins that a project does that's in bankruptcy or restructuring.
So the revenue -- you have a mix of the revenue that impacts margin as well.
And we'll move on to Randy Reece with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get clear or clearer for me what your expectations were for headwinds on large multi-year projects.
When you put together guidance entering the year what's changed on that? And what has changed otherwise since you gave original guidance? It's Dave Bannister Randy.
We do not have significant changes in our expectations around large multi-year engagements that were existing at the time.
I would say the difference is for example within Corporate Finance typically in any given year 25% to 40% of the revenue is comprised by their 4 to 10 largest projects.
We simply do not have any new large projects going on in that business.
A lot of this is public information.
You can go and look at the filings of our fees -- fee apps [ph] like Lehman Brothers and we'll see annual revenues of $50 million or something for engagements like that.
Right now I think our largest engagements in that segment are probably below $5 million a year in terms of revenue.
So it's not that our -- that we misunderstood what's going on with X-10 [ph] a large engagement but rather that they are to book new engagements of that level since the run-off in technology is actually somewhat better or slower or the revenues continue longer than we thought with respect to a couple of [indiscernible] but not in a particularly material sense.
The biggest factor is -- and again I tried to say this earlier -- when we put together our budgets and put together our guidance we were looking -- S&amp;P was looking for somewhere around 3.4 to 3.74 default rates.
We used 3.
In fact we're running at about 2.5 and that would represent a 20% to 25% shortfall in revenue.
If you made it as simple as that it would be $0.50 a share roughly in earnings and that's really the difference LLC Research Division</strong> Very good.
That helps me understand how you set expectations for winning new business.
With the businesses that you acquired over the last 12 months outside the U.S.
for Corporate Finance/Restructuring how have those been performing? The businesses -- Randy it's Dennis.
The businesses in Australia are on budget or exceeding budget.
The -- and those have been the 2 main acquisitions the acquisition we bought in the valuation business here in the States is running ahead of budget.
So of the 3 most recent ones which will be in the last 18 months we're pleased with the results of all 3.
LLC Research Division</strong> You're obviously not alone in what you're experiencing.
Do you have any desire to pursue acquisitions of maybe beaten-up properties at this time? Or are you going to sit back and try to figure out the direction of the market? Well no.
I mean I think the one thing we can all bet on is the market will come back.
The question simply is timing.
I think we'd be foolish given the balance that the company has and the amount of cash flow not to look at properties especially that are -- have a lot of industry expertise that can bring unique long-term professional expertise to us.
And I think that clearly a lot of the smaller companies are experiencing significant pressure in this area.
And we actually talked last night about several -- that during the last restructuring would have been viewed as rock stars in their industries.
And yet we know they're having some significant headwind issues.
Given the fact that they're smaller practices they tend to be more concentrated in certain industries and some of the businesses there.
So we would be on the lookout.
We wouldn't be afraid to pull the trigger.
You've got to build these companies for long-term prospects.
And if you look at the things we've done over the last couple years one of the real benefits we've seen is the ability to leverage our global platform and our different skills against those additions so there's growth of our partnership as I like to say.
So for example our valuation business that we added in Southern California has extended itself very effectively across the entire platform of our relationships in the U.S.
with financial institutions with major pension fund managers and bringing some skills to bear where we have X-10 [ph] relationships that we can use and lever.
Similarly the -- what we call the C2 acquisition.
The government policy analytics group in Washington has very quickly been able to help a number of our clients in monitoring analyzing and predicting actions that are going to go on in Washington.
So those are the sorts of things we're looking for where can we add people or capabilities or capacities that lever on existing relationships not just buying things cheap because they're beat up.
And I think to add to that -- to David's comment I think things that drive value they align well with the global trends.
So industries like energy and insurance continue to grow and healthcare I think you see a lot of growth in those because those are global trends that are affecting those industries.
And we make -- historically make a lot of money dealing with industries that are going through transitions whether strategic capital or otherwise.
And we'll move on to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a numerical question.
Within the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment how big is the North American restructuring piece of that revenue in the back half of the year? It's about $200 million of the $400 million on an annualized basis Tobey.
And so in the back half -- I don't actually have the number off the top of my head for the back half of the year but it's running below that level.
So if we did $100 million in the most -- in the quarter we just finished $13 million from acquired businesses would leave $87 million so it's -- we probably would think it should be $200 million and it's probably running more like $160 million or about $80 million for the back half of the year so around those sorts of numbers.
We'll give you a better answer on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
I wanted to get a sense for the mix issue because it seems like part of what you're being confronted with is lower demand but then also a dearth of large projects that generally carry high margin.
Have you experienced in your management of the business historically a sustained stretch where large projects have simply not materialized? Or is this unusual in something whether it's a massive product recall or some sort of restructuring out of the blue is likely to occur in any stretch of 2 3 4 quarters? Well it's a good question.
I'll start off.
I mean I think certainly there have been troughs -- restructuring is a cyclical business.
Certainly there have been troughs.
I would say no one has experienced capital costs as low as they are and probably access to capital right now as easy as it is for at least a certain breed of companies.
So that overlay Tobey I think is unique against prior sort of duration of what we would call troughs in the restructuring market.
Now does that argue that you're going to have an even bigger robust market as some of this just doesn't work out? You could make that case.
But you can also make a case and that's why we've taken the second half down that the government seems pretty intent on keeping that cost of funds where it is and keeping demand for certain products flush so that there's a lot of liquidity in the market.
And so I think we may be certainly sitting here for 2 to 3 4 more quarters watching the markets continue to add liquidity to troubled companies in an effort to buy them more time to fix their problems.
Now whether they're successful or not we don't know.
And yes the whole issue of municipalities and how they're going to be responding to some of these things going forward without federal aid is also subject to a big debate.
But I think we have seen these troughs.
They have tended not to last so long.
But then again we haven't had this overlay of cost of funds and liquidity that we've experienced in the last 48 months.
Yes the -- historically in the first quarter I think of 2003 we saw an explosion in high-yield debt that basically at the time we said probably affected 85% of the companies that we had in backlog or that we had as opportunities.
That resulted in -- and I think there are 2 things that are maybe -- one is unprecedented which is certainly the quantitative easing.
That's a wildcard that we haven't dealt with before as Dennis said.
The second is this trend of the money here going into refinance deals as opposed to into new money deals.
And in 2003 what happened was the first quarter explosion in a high-yield debt had the effect of basically costing us some backlog in larger transactions.
And the result was not that companies then defaulted to next year but it was that that had been morphed into frothy lending.
And so we had a relatively good period of economic activity and we were very very busy because as we've said time and again we tend to do pretty well both in periods of high exuberance and in periods of bad results.
But when there's kind of just an on leak [ph] going on that's not our favored milieu.
So I think we -- to answer your question certainly for the rest of this year you would think that that would -- they'd probably taking care of a lot of the problems that we see out there that would have normally been opportunities for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is -- to your back half guidance does that include any cost cuts that you may consider in the future? It would not include special charge and we certainly will be making cost cuts.
So I would say that -- the answer to your question it does not -- it basically would include adjustments we have made at the end of the second quarter and then estimates of actions that we will take in the third and fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it doesn't bed your estimates I should say.
Okay.
In terms of early-stage M&amp;A you've had a well-performing economic practice and talked about being set up on retainer.
Could you describe within that mix of early-stage stuff that you're involved in the size and scope? Are there potential large projects that could come that way into the business that would feed multiple segments and maybe help offset the core mix of business that you've got so far? Well yes.
Yes I mean I think they're very large assign -- potential assignments.
They would predominantly benefit economics because they have been retained and we have been doing the work to get the deals approved.
There's some very large competition assignments that are actually governmentally generated antitrust or anti-competition inquiries which again would predominantly benefit economics.
The Technology group as we said has started to see an increase in second requests.
And clearly if there is aggressive prosecution of some of these governmental-initiated competition issues you're going to need data management and things like that.
So that could spill over into Tech.
But I would say the group that would predominantly benefit if some of these large deals actually activate and you have to get governmental permission would be ECON.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My last question is in Strategic Communications kind of a nice sequential uptick in revenue there but I would have thought perhaps a little bit more margin flow-through.
Can you describe what you're seeing in the business there? The revenue increase included a relatively larger percentage of pass-through revenues which had relatively low margins.
So I'd be a little bit careful on looking at the revenue increase as being sustainable.
We are from time to time asked to do things for clients in terms of booking events and so forth and so on.
They're random.
They're not particularly profit making they're rather pass-through revenues.
But that having been said there certainly are a number of trends in that business that would suggest that revenue and demand are improving an uptick in capital markets or M&amp;A activity we've spoken about many times but similarly active -- a more active regulatory or perception of regulatory environment where people need to get things done in Washington or Brussels [indiscernible] for that business.
And I think we are seeing some increased project revenue or activity level around traditional investor relations public relations kind of activities.
Again I mentioned earlier the C2 acquisition and I would reinforce that again.
Even though it's a very small business in of itself its skills are leverageable and importantly leverageable against things that major companies need to do.
Roger mentioned earlier for example the energy space.
You've heard us speak in the past about the work we've done for the energy industry particularly around frac-ing that has lots of issues that are significant to it in terms of the clients' needs to be persuasive to push forward projects for new wells for new activity around that for increasing both regulators legislators and even the general populations understanding of the risks and opportunities for rewards from frac-ing.
That's a pretty significant area.
Our energy business now it's running Roger what $50 million a quarter or something like that? Yes I think all combined for all 3.
It's a very -- it's something we haven't again haven't started talking about a lot yet but it's an area where we have pretty high hopes for doing some things there.
And it sort of wonders that line that we try to erase between government policy public affairs public relations economic analysis and industrial development.
So we're pretty excited about that area.
We're not going to bang the drums too loud yet.
We have got some work to do but it's one of those areas where 5 years from now we think we might have a pretty big business.
Yes because of our geographic advantage the government affairs business is really one that we want to concentrate on and add to over the coming years.
And next we'll move to Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Paul Ginocchio.
Just 2 questions.
First on the guidance.
At the midpoint of the revenue guidance your second half revenues look like they would be down about $9 million versus the first half.
But even taking out that Corp Fin investment of $4.5 million pretax that your costs in the second half at the midpoint again looks like they're going to be up $2 million.
So I'm just trying to understand Dennis you just mentioned you're going to cut costs.
But in the guidance it looks like costs are actually up year-on-year -- or in the second half versus the first half.
Is that right or am I missing something? Well number one you got 3 acquisitions in it so just that you really closed in the second quarter so the costs for those acquisitions and the contribution will be there.
So that's just math.
And so we are adjusting costs.
Roger why don't you take it from there? Yes.
Paul I think you read that right and basically it's the way the guidance would imply that.
I think it does imply that the second half revenue will be down slightly.
As we said it'd be down as a result of the North American restructuring market a little bit of the technology other groups offsetting that somewhat by being better.
So it does imply it's down in the range you said.
On the cost side you do have increased costs because of the acquisitions that closed in the quarter so you have to add that in.
We continue to be focused on -- there was a question earlier about were there cost reductions in the guidance.
And we do -- we are looking at those particularly those things but we have had a continued focus all year in terms of just being more efficient in our various processes that might impact SG&amp;A both in corporate unallocated SG&amp;A and in the segments.
And so I think we'll continue to work on that.
And if that goes well maybe you won't see that cost increase by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the second assuming cash -- operating cash flow is similar to last year because it looks like earnings is going to be relatively similar to last year and looking at your updated CapEx and your acquisition spend year-to-date plus the first quarter repurchase activity you basically have spent all of your 2013 cash flow already including the full year CapEx.
So is that why you stopped your buyback? Or how should we think about that? No.
Well first of all I'm not -- I don't know if the premise is accurate.
I think our cash from operations or free cash flow will be better this year But remember we started the year with sort of a $25 million positive because we advanced $25 million of bonuses into the product tax year.
And so if you look at that updated guidance it's about -- on the low end of the range it's about $25 million better than it was when I gave that in February.
And that's basically built on -- our teams across all of our businesses have done a very good job on keeping our DSOs at the targeted levels and in some cases below the targeted levels.
So I think we're having good cash flow.
We're -- at this point as you can tell by looking at our financials we're out of the revolver.
We don't have any revolver debt.
And we will be building cash for the remainder of the year.
So the question is with that cash what would we use that for? And historically there's been 2 primary things we've used it for one is acquisitions the other is share repurchases.
So we -- I think the way to think moving on to your question about share repurchases was at the time when the stock started moving up and set a new 52-week high it wasn't obvious to us that we should buying at or near the 52-week high.
As that -- if that condition changes I think you could see us step back into the market to continue that.
Well we said before when our board authorized that $250 million buyback of which about $171 million is still in place that runs through June of 2014 our intention was to complete that.
It's subject to market conditions and things we see as we move along but I think you could see us continue that.
It was not stopped as a result of availability of cash.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So do you want to give us an operating cash flow estimate for 2013? I did that earlier in the notes.
It was $200 million to $225 million of cash from operations for the year and CapEx $42 million to $47 million for the year.
And that will end the question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jack Dunn for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much and again thanks to everybody for joining us today.
And that will conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Mollie Hawkes of FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's third quarter 2013 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of the risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2013 the current report on Form 8-K dated May 21 2013 and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement which speak only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over to Jack Dunn President and Chief Executive Officer of FTI Consulting.
Jack please go ahead.
Thank you Mollie and welcome and thank you to everyone else for joining us.
With me today on the call are Dennis Shaughnessy our Chairman; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer; and Dave Bannister our North American Region Chairman.
This morning we announced our third quarter results for 2013.
By now I hope all of you have had a chance to review them.
And if not as Mollie said they can be found on our website at www.fticonsulting.com.
For the quarter revenues increased 7% year-over-year to $415 million.
Our record revenue results were led by continued strength in our Economic Consulting segment in both the North American and European operations and contributions from our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment which includes our Health Solutions practice.
For the quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.72 increased 20% year-over-year.
On a GAAP basis the fully diluted loss per share was $1.29 for the quarter including a non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to the Strategic Communications segment of $83.8 million and a special charge of $10.4 million.
The goodwill impairment charge has no impact on the company's liquidity cash flow borrowing capability or operations.
As is our practice rather than recycle the press release I will briefly give a few thoughts on what we believe are the key takeaways from the quarter turn it over to Roger to discuss some of the financial aspects and then most importantly turn the call over to you for your questions.
In the third quarter Economic Consulting continued its strong performance.
Third quarter revenues of $113.1 million increased 17% year-over-year driven by continued strong demand across the board including our antitrust litigation and financial consulting services in North America and EMEA and our international arbitration regulatory and valuation practices in EMEA.
In fact Economic Consulting revenues in EMEA improved 31% year-over-year.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting third quarter revenues of $113.1 million increased 13% year-over-year.
The results included a large success fee in the North America investigations practice and increased demand in our Health Solutions practice which grew 24% year-over-year.
During the quarter the segment recorded a special charge of $1.9 million related to headcount reductions to better align capacity with expected demand.
And utilization improved to 67% in the quarter from 63% in the prior year.
During the quarter we saw positive litigation market trends emerge with securities litigations filings improving 34% year-over-year and almost half of these involved some aspect of company accounting.
We continue to benefit from the disruption occurring in the health care industry.
Our Health Solutions practice revenue increased 24% year-over-year on stronger demand and success fees and 15% sequentially since the last quarter as we advise clients from across the health care continuum on how to best achieve quality of care and value in this transforming industry.
In addition to reporting record quarterly revenues results in both segments I would like to congratulate the 28 expert witnesses in our Economic Consulting and Forensic and Litigation Consulting segments as well as our Compass Lexecon subsidiary who are named on Global Arbitration Review's International Who's Who of Commercial Arbitration 2014 list last week.
FTI Consulting topped the list for the fourth consecutive year with professionals from each of our 4 geographic regions represented evidencing the global reach and expertise of our firm.
This recognition is a testament to the world-class professionals who have honored FTI Consulting by making it their home.
As today's complex matters increasingly involve not only international but multinational constituencies international arbitration is fast becoming the forum of choice for leading global companies and we appreciate that these companies are increasingly turning to the professionals of FTI Consulting to help them.
In Technology third quarter revenues of $51.2 million improved 2% year-over-year demonstrating a very solid performance given headwinds from the decline of a large litigation-related matter.
During the quarter we saw increases in global investigations related to FCPA and LIBOR investigations.
We can trace Technology's performance in the quarter to strategic investments in our products people and business development initiatives.
Investments in sales and marketing contributed substantially to those results particularly with clients who have initiated new technology matters year-to-date.
Additionally the market has responded very well to our product investments and launches.
Last quarter Gartner rated FTI Technology as the leader in its annual Magic Quadrant for E-Discovery Software report and we continue to enjoy positive client and analyst feedback in response to the latest versions of our award-winning Ringtail software.
Technology's global reach continues to be an important factor in distinguishing us from the rest of the field and in winning more complex cross-border litigation events and investigations.
According to our clients our depth and experience outside the U.S.
allows us to address their needs rapidly and at the level of sustained execution they have come to expect from FTI.
In Corporate Finance/Restructuring third quarter revenues of $94 million increased 1% year-over-year.
Our recently acquired businesses contributed $12.8 million of these revenues during the quarter.
These revenue contributions were largely offset by continued weakness in our North America Bankruptcy and Restructuring business.
During the quarter we continued to see depressed levels of restructuring activity as a result of the strong high-yield debt financing markets and historically low U.S.
corporate default rates.
In light of the challenging bankruptcy and restructuring backdrop in North America we took actions during the quarter to one reduce headcount to better align our capacity with demand.
This resulted in a special charge of $6.3 million for the quarter.
Two focus on our go-to-market initiatives for our non-distressed product offerings which now represent approximately 35% of the segment's global revenues.
And three continue to closely manage discretionary expenses in the segment.
In Strategic Communications revenues of $43.3 million declined 5% year-over-year.
Revenues declined due to reduced pass-through revenues for certain EMEA and North America retained engagements and weak M&amp;A activity particularly in Asia Pacific.
The segment did benefit by $1.6 million contribution from our acquisition of the C2 Group and this acquisition has provided new impetus to our governmental affairs initiative not only in the U.S.
but internationally.
The segment has continued to experience pricing pressure for certain discretionary communication services including IPO support services where there is now volume but also increasing competition.
This has contributed in a change to the company's near-term outlook for this business.
And as a result the company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $83.8 million during the quarter.
Roger will discuss this charge in more detail in a minute.
From a geographic perspective Asia Pacific revenues increased 57% year-over-year as a result of revenue contributions of $11.2 million from acquired businesses in Australia as this region continues to gain broader strategic significance for our firm.
With the revenue contributions from recent Corporate Finance and Restructuring acquisitions in Australia the segment represented 53% of our revenues in Asia Pac.
Our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment revenues in the region grew 10% year-over-year due to contributions from our global risk and investigations practice and our construction solutions practice.
This experienced growth of 27% -- these experienced growth of 27% and 34% respectively.
Looking forward we see real opportunities for our Forensic and Litigation Consulting services in the region.
Our Forensic and Litigation professionals are just starting to benefit from the increased synergies created by the Corporate Finance and Restructuring acquisitions in Australia and have begun to organically enhance our offering in Australia.
Outside of Australia we see especially strong opportunities to enhance our position in Singapore.
In EMEA revenue increased 7% year-over-year driven by a 31% increase in Economic Consulting revenue.
With just over 1/3 of the revenues for the region Economic Consulting was the largest revenue contributor during the quarter.
EMEA continues to be an emerging bright spot for our Economic Consulting offering.
During the quarter we benefited from strength in our European international arbitration and antitrust practices as our London-based economic consulting professionals were highly utilized.
Technology revenues also contributed to the year-over-year revenue increase with improved revenues from LIBOR-related investigations.
In North America revenues increased 5% year-over-year.
This increase was driven by a 19% and 15% top line improvement in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Economic Consulting segments respectively.
In Latin America revenues decreased 17% year-over-year resulting primarily from a decline in Corporate Finance and Restructuring revenues in the region.
Brazil represented 29% of Latin America revenues during the quarter and we realized year-over-year revenue growth in Brazil despite a weakened macroeconomic backdrop.
Brazil's economy posted its slowest growth of the year in the third quarter as global uncertainties undermined activity in Latin America's largest economy.
As we grow it is a natural evolution for FTI Consulting to become more industry focused and we are keenly focused on industries with -- that are facing disruption or change.
We are strong in areas such as telecom media and entertainment construction real estate and retail.
The outlook for these industries is attractive for FTI Consulting because providers of consulting services tend to thrive during these times of change.
In addition to those areas listed above in health care which we previously discussed we have also seen great strides in the energy sector which is facing an amplified risk environment and disruptive changes over the next 2 decades which also play directly into our strengths.
There are opportunities for each of our businesses in this attractive growth industry.
For example in Economic Consulting we are seeing increasing interest for services that intersect engineering and economics expertise.
Our professionals who have deep industry operational and economic expertise people who have held operational and compliance roles at energy companies are in high demand particularly in power reliability and cost allocation litigation engagements.
Another area insurance is one of the world's largest and most important industries.
And this industry is expanding rapidly as the standard of living rises in emerging economies and threats from natural and man-made issues increase globally.
The market is undergoing constant transformation as a result of new and emerging risks emanating from technological advances globalization and other business innovations.
Our recent acquisition of certain insurance businesses formerly operating under the Distinct brand brings important additional capability to our insurance practice.
These newly acquired businesses perform consulting services around the analytics of the insurance business giving FTI Consulting a new skill set and enhanced geographic footprint in EMEA.
These experts and consultants offer a highly specialized capability to deploy valuable results focused solutions and measurable business improvement.
We believe that adding these professionals and proprietary analytics tools to FTI Consulting's offering will bring an enhanced value proposition not only to our insurance clients in North America and around the world but also companies in other industries as we expand the group's analytical tools to address other areas of operational and process improvement.
With that I will now turn the call over to Roger to provide more color on our guidance cash and capital allocation during the quarter and the goodwill impairment charge.
Thank you Jack.
When we provided our updated fiscal 2013 guidance in August we guided for revenues of between $1.62 billion and $1.65 billion and adjusted earnings per share of between $2.10 and $2.20 per share.
Our current expectation for the second half of fiscal 2013 is consistent with our prior guidance.
During the third quarter we earned certain success fees including a large success fee in the Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment which improved our third quarter results.
However these success fees will not recur in the fourth quarter.
The lack of these success fees in the fourth quarter and our normal seasonal slowdown around the Thanksgiving and end of year holidays are expected to reduce our fourth quarter results as compared to our recently completed third quarter results.
Lastly turning to our third quarter results including a goodwill impairment charge in our Strategic Communications segment under generally accepted accounting principles we are required to test the book value of our goodwill on an annual basis or any interim reporting period if a triggering event causes us to believe that the current book value of the goodwill is less than its fair value.
This test is performed for each reporting unit within the company which in the case of FTI Consulting are our 5 business segments and our health solutions practice which is aggregated within FLC.
This is a point-in-time analysis which requires companies to assess the fair value of recorded goodwill using standard valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models and market comparisons.
The Strategic Communications segment has continued to experience pricing pressure for certain discretionary communication services including IPO support services where there is volume but also increasing competition.
This has compressed segment margins and contributed to a change in the company's near-term outlook for this business.
Given the cyclical nature of this business the company must assess the fair value of the segment's goodwill based on the current and expected business conditions.
Given the difficulty in predicting the timing magnitude and improved profitability of this segment the company's view was that it was not likely these conditions would improve materially in the near term.
As a result the company determined there was a triggering event during the third quarter which required a goodwill impairment assessment for this segment as of September 30 2013.
Based on this assessment the company recorded an $83.8 million goodwill impairment charge to reduce the goodwill in the Strategic Communications segment.
This charge represents approximately 7% of the company's consolidated goodwill balance and applies only to the Strategic Communications segment.
This is a noncash charge and has no impact on our operations cash flows financial covenant compliance or borrowing capability.
With that I'll turn the call back to you Jack.
Thank you Roger.
Before we open up the call for your questions I want to recognize that this will be Dennis Shaughnessy's last earnings call with us.
Sadly Dennis will be retiring from his role as Executive Chairman at the end of the year and he will be sorely missed.
As you know perhaps the most important job of the independent members of the Board of Directors of any company is to select the leadership of that company.
Accordingly our board is taking the event of Dennis' departure as an opportunity to assess not only the combination of skills and vision required to lead us over the next several years and beyond but also the structure of that leadership to face an increasingly evolving landscape of new and different competitive challenges while remaining mindful of developments and trends in good corporate governance.
Our board is actively engaged in this succession planning process and we expect it will be completed by the end of the year.
With that we'll now open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Dennis congratulations.
Thanks Kevin.
You're welcome.
I wonder if you could give us a sense it looks like we did some headcount reduction in Cor Fin and in the FLC practice.
Are we sized where we want to be at this point just based on kind of what we're seeing in the near term as we position the business number one? And then just how does that impact -- I know there's some fall hiring things like that.
Are we scaled where we need to be based on where the fall hires came in? It's Dave Bannister.
I think the short answer to that is yes.
We did unfortunately have to take some sizing actions in both the businesses over the course of the year.
But in terms of the macro sort of headcount how we came into the fall hiring season how we're looking at headcount next year we think we're in reasonable shape at this point in time.
And as is usually the case we continue -- as you know we did the acquisition of the Distinct businesses and things like that.
We'll continue to add headcount in those areas that have industry specialization where we think the market is really headed.
So it's not -- your question -- we believe in terms of some of the generic capability to complete the work we have but in terms of the intellectual capital we're continuing to add to the roster.
And in terms of kind of level of staff was it kind of more junior or senior or a combination of both? Kevin it's Roger Carlile.
It varies of course in the businesses between -- I mean when you look at the disclosure the larger of the -- the greater portion of the special charge was in the Corporate Finance and Restructuring segment.
And although it's a mixture I would say probably it was a higher level of professional that we removed from the business in that segment.
Whereas in FLC which was a smaller portion of that it was a broader mix across the segment.
And of course when you add up the segment levels you'll notice that it won't reconcile the total.
That's because there was a reduction in our EMEA business in corporate as well.
So -- and that would have been a more senior individual as well.
Got it.
And then just any sense as just to sizing that success fee so we get a sense of what that impact would be as we think about Q4? Well I think the way to think of that is that one success fee alone had impacted earnings -- adjusted earnings per share by about $0.06 to $0.07 per share.
We'll go next to David Gold with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions and I'll add my congratulations to you Dennis too.
Thank you David.
LLC</strong> On the cost cut side I was curious broadly on the 2 practices how to think about that and maybe the return that we'd expect on that sort of how quickly can we see that return and what might we get out of that? David it's Roger again.
I think obviously this was one of the smallest charges we've reported as a special charge.
And so for that reason and based on the comments Jack made in terms of we're investing in new areas where the market's moving I don't -- we're not really talking about savings being generated from that.
Obviously there will be -- the salaries of the individuals that are no longer here won't be incurred but I don't think it's clear that we won't be reinvesting that into other areas that are growing.
So I wouldn't think about savings really in respect of that charge.
LLC</strong> Got you okay.
And then the Strategic Communications side presumably I think you commented a little bit the market has changed particularly in North America with retainer values potentially going down.
Can you give us some color on how we'd think about or what we do differently there given that environment to sort of return that business to growth? Well it's Roger again.
I think that we've been doing what we need to do in that.
It's just not a -- you don't turn a carrier on a dime.
So we've been investing in things in that business and have growth.
So our public affairs and governmental affairs business investing in our corporate communications business and working directly with corporates on issues that are outside of just say financial-related matters or crisis-related matters.
What is happening there is there has been -- in the third quarter as we noted there was more IPO activity then there was in the previous second quarter but because the communications market and those markets M&amp;A markets and IPO markets had been down for quite some time the amount of competition for those projects is pretty severe.
So notwithstanding that we're maintaining our market share of those projects the value to us of the fees is less at this time because many people are competing particularly for IPOs to get the relationship for the carry-on work for the future.
So I think we're maintaining our market share in our traditional markets.
Those markets have proven to be a little less valuable in this environment and we're also moving towards new areas of growth such as governmental affairs public affairs corporate communications those types of things.
I think David there'd be 3 areas that I draw to your attention where I think Strategic Communications is key maybe 4 would certainly be the geographic footprint which we are forever beholden for being -- providing the platform which gives us enough critical mass to be able to hire people in the Middle East and in Europe and that kind of thing.
But 3 other areas where they are important is first they were into industry specialization much before we were.
And if you look at the industries that I mentioned they're being driven in the work with between Economic Consulting and Strategic Communications and the energy area's staggering.
We probably have built up almost 100 million 115 million practice there in a year with the cooperation between new [ph].
Because the governmental affairs aspect goes hand-in-hand with issues of shale drilling and all that kind of stuff.
In the health care area we're making major new initiatives because the fact that with some of the health care problems the hospitals can have the combined aspect of the IR and PR aspects along with the operational improvement.
So it's -- with that spectacular growth you saw for us in health care a lot of that is due to joint projects that they are working on.
So that's a second area.
The third area where I think you just -- we have the beginnings the acorn of something is in this governmental affairs.
And that's really the joining of C2 and the kind of spark that that's provided we now have active initiatives.
Brussels I think is never been busier for us.
So that's working out well.
And then the fourth area that I think that we need to get and there was a survey out yesterday I think we really need to become a leader in the digital and social media area.
I think that's an area where you're going to see companies and CEOs and the C-Suite become much much more concerned.
So those are areas that I think -- I think we'll see a change in that business over time.
We are not just waiting for somebody in corporate America to decide "Hey it's time to pay more retainer work." I think we need to provide increasingly where the value is which is in the interface with business in Washington and the interface with business in the public.
So I think that's where we're headed.
David Dennis.
One other thing just to reinforce what Jack said at the beginning because I think it's just a critical strategic factor.
Just by reference our other FTI operations in EMEA are now substantially larger than the Strategic Communications group.
When we bought the Strategic Communications group we had nothing from the other operations in EMEA.
So the growth in that big market has really been enabled by establishing the platform and the credibility that we got from that.
In Asia and Latin America while we did have presence there when we bought the Strategic Communications group clearly they have accelerated our growth in those markets especially Australia and parts of Asia Pacific as well as in Colombia Mexico and other parts of Latin America.
And so the real strategic benefit besides simply the obvious earnings contribution of revenues we've gotten since 2005 when we bought the company has been the platform that we gained and the ability to lever that platform on an effective cost basis rather than having to de novo open up operations all around the world and incur a lot of startup losses.
So it's levered extremely well.
And I think Europe is a perfect example where now all the rest of the FTI businesses are much bigger than the Strategic Communications group.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
And then one last quick one.
Can you give a sense for size on the health care business right now by way of revenue? It's going to be between $100 million and $110 million on an annual basis.
And we'll go next to Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff Rossetti in for Joe.
Just wanted to get some more detail about the M&amp;A life cycle.
Obviously it's impacting your antitrust work.
Just wanted to see where you see the M&amp;A life cycle.
Is it -- do you see it start to impact your second request work and get more involved in FLC? It's Dave Bannister again.
As you probably have seen in the last week or 2 the data on the M&amp;A volume levels are actually a bit discouraging.
The New York Times had an article last week suggesting that all of us law firms investment banks people like us who live in that world were expecting a gangbuster M&amp;A year in 2014.
And the fact that that has not come through -- we just had a senior fellow from the M&amp;A department of Goldman Sachs which is a friend of ours in recently and he said certainly from their perspective they're not seeing the business level they had hoped to see.
So I think we're currently cautious about that market.
We are very pleased with the market share we have particularly in our economics business but in other places we're getting good work.
You're seeing some trends in that in technology in second request and so forth.
But in terms of the robust demand environment it's not there right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- did you mention at all the cuts that were made in FLC? Were those within the dispute advisory services? I'm sorry if I missed it.
Well it was not in the health care solutions portion because obviously they're growing.
And one of their big growth restricters is getting people.
It was spread across the businesses.
It wasn't focused on any one and it was spread primarily between their North American region and their EMEA region.
So it was a little bit of all of their products just sort of tightening up what they had in capacity versus demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as investing in health care are there any kind of specific practices that you would be interested in through M&amp;A to sort of build out that because it's seeing such strength? Or is it something that you're just going to focus on building organically? This is Dave Bannister again.
I would say couple of things on that.
One is we clearly believe that the demand level there is such that we need to add capacity and we are aggressively in the market looking to hire qualified people.
As you probably understand from our business there the nature of the folks that we're looking for there are quite broad.
So for example we have everything from clinicians to literally doctors helping run operating rooms to people who are more on the classic procurement or scheduling side.
There are some other emerging areas that we think are going to be important there including labor relations and employee management kinds of issues.
But I would say across the broad spectrum of performance improvement inside of hospitals we're looking to hire.
In terms of the M&amp;A market as you know as a company we have been a reasonably aggressive acquirer over the last 5 or 10 years but we also want to be prudent with our capital.
It feels to us like the levels that are being paid for properties that have the words health care associated with them now are uneconomical for most acquirers.
We are seeing properties trading at 12x 15x EBITDA and frankly we are just not comfortable with those kinds of levels to pay for things generally.
So we'll keep looking we'll keep thinking about it.
But I think we're going to be much more aggressive in trying to pursue an organic growth strategy there than deploying capital.
It doesn't mean we won't find something but I think right now the pricing levels are such that we think it might be a bit of a bubble.
We'll go next to Randy Reece with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was trying to get -- first of all I'm jealous of anybody who retires before I do.
Congratulations.
Thank you Randy.
I've been working longer than you have though.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
If you adjust it for hours I don't know.
I was trying to get an idea of kind of directions you're going in headcount entering next year.
Not -- and just directionally I'm not looking for exact numbers but how the environment feels in terms of what you're going to need to prepare for demand how much lead time you have to add people to meet it.
It's Roger Carlile.
I think generally speaking because we're taking off of Dave's answer earlier we think our headcount is generally where we want it to be I think you would just look at headcount tracking revenue growth rates.
A couple of areas where that might not be the case we still have capacity in our corporate finance business.
And so as revenue increases there we wouldn't have to add headcount probably quite as rapidly as the revenue increase.
And I think the same with Forensic and Litigation Consulting still maybe a little bit of capacity in pockets there.
But generally speaking I think you'd look at headcount growth being in line with revenue growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> There wasn't much of a wiggle in the headcount in CFR even though the revenue went down some the utilization rate shows a tick up.
Again we have to be a little bit careful there.
We made several acquisitions in that space during the course of the year 2 in Australia and 1 in a very specialized valuation practice in the U.S.
So those all add to headcount while at the same time you saw reductions for headcount.
So I think it's a bit of a reconciliation you have to go through there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's just optical I guess.
In the Technology area I don't know if you addressed this earlier on the call I got on in the middle but I picked up a posting on a government website said you want to contract with the Department of Treasury for Ringtail software deployment.
What really caught my eye about that was that they decided to go sole-sourced.
They didn't fully compete it.
They considered 14 vendors chose you on the merits of your technology and the fact that you were a single vendor and that gave them greater comfort about data security.
Is this all as significant as it seems like to me? Again it's Dave Bannister if I may take that.
There are different approaches to the market.
There certainly are vendors who want to sell point solutions to point problems.
We believe and the experience of the company has been that for certainly complex or important or critical matters that having something that using a euphemism is more of an end-to-end solution provides many benefits.
It provides efficiency benefits.
You don't have to trade data between different platforms and different sets.
It provides security which is critical to many of the sorts of things we work on.
And it provides we believe efficiency because you can run a project right on through to the end and get the results without having to relearn the various attributes of the case.
So it's not necessarily the right thing for everyone.
If it's a slip and fall accident in a mall operator who just wants to search his inbox for letters on that that capacity may not be necessary.
But on larger matters or on matters that are complex or on matters that have items such as security involved with them we think an end-to-end solution makes sense.
And Randy I'm just going to add.
I happened to be with our sales team the day that they closed that sale.
And so I think it is significant for a couple of reasons.
One they got the deal closed -- this shows the quality of our people and our tools.
They got that deal closed before the government shutdown.
They worked very hard when they saw it was coming to make sure that they met the client's needs before the client was unable to act.
Secondly I think just to take a little pride in our technology team on the sole-source decision I think when somebody sees you have a great product they don't need to talk to everybody else about it.
So I think they picked us for the reasons David said because we meet all those needs.
LLC Research Division</strong> My understanding was they were under some pressure to comply with court mandates.
Are there any other agencies in similar position? We have historically had that business at a number of relationships with government entities around the world.
So for example in Australia we've been the vendor for their equivalent of the Department of Justice for years.
Similarly in Canada.
So yes I think the answer is there is a reasonably good application for agencies that are data-intensive and have information needs that are complex and require information.
We have what we believe over time for example that Brussels will become a potentially more important market as they become more like the U.S.
in the way they approach antitrust and competition issues that they're becoming much more data-intensive and there's an opportunity there as well.
So I think the broad answer is as data becomes more complicated becomes harder to deal with comes from multiple form factors and has to be addressable and searchable and protected you need the sorts of solutions that our team has and will continue to develop to address those issues.
Hats off to the team out there because I don't think there's been much of an argument about who has the most robust system out there.
But now with the new release they have on Ringtail we also have as user-friendly or perhaps more user-friendly interfaces with it than anybody else.
So there's -- it really is a very very safe choice to pick FTI and all its assembled capabilities there.
So I think that's a major step that happened this year.
It didn't get maybe as much press but I think it's going to pay huge dividends for us as we're starting to see now as they performed so well even in spite of some of the cases rolling off from prior years.
And with no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Jack Dunn for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all very much for being with us and we look forward to chatting with you the next time.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I'll turn the call over to Mollie Hawkes Director of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement which speaks only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I would like to turn the call over and welcome our recently appointed President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Gunby.
Steve please go ahead.
Thank you Mollie.
Welcome to all of you and thanks for joining this call.
Today is my 1-month anniversary of joining FTI and I'd like to say I am excited to be here and I'm very much looking forward to meet each of you on this call and working with you going forward.
I'm joined today by Roger Carlile who I think most of you know is our CFO; and Dave Bannister who I think also most of you know is our Chairman of North America.
In a moment I'm going to turn this over to Roger who will provide you an overview of the fourth quarter and of the full year and will share the first quarter's guidance.
Let me however say upfront I'm disappointed with our first quarter outlook.
It's obviously not the starting point that I would have liked or we would have liked as we begin the next phase of FTI's success story.
Having said that I also want to underscore just how excited I am to be at this company and how convinced I am of the powerful prospects this company has going forward in terms of profitability in terms of growth in terms of the lifeblood of professional services deep client and powerful client relationships.
So after Roger has gone through the numbers I'd like to come back to you briefly.
I'm only 1 month in here but I'd like to give you a flavor for why what I have heard and experienced over the last few weeks which makes me excited and the process we have under way to unlock and deliver on that potential.
So with that let me turn it over to you Roger.
Thanks Steve.
This morning we announced our fourth quarter and full year results for 2013.
By now I hope all of you have had a chance to review those.
If not as Mollie said they can be found on our Investor Relations website.
For the quarter revenues increased 4.2% to $416 million.
Adjusted EBITDA was $53 million or 12.7% of revenue.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.49.
It's important to note that both adjusted EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share included a remeasurement gain related to the reduction of the liability for estimated future contingent consideration payments related to prior acquisitions.
This remeasurement gain increased adjusted EBITDA in the quarter by $5.3 million and adjusted earnings per share by $0.10.
For the year revenues increased 4.8% to $1.65 billion adjusted EBITDA was $259.1 million or 15.7% of revenues adjusted earnings per share was $2.39 and again both adjusted EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share included remeasurement gains related to the reduction of the liability for estimated future contingent consideration payments related to prior acquisitions.
These remeasurement gains increased adjusted EBITDA for the year by $13.6 million and adjusted earnings per share for the year by $0.30.
During our third quarter earnings call the company updated its fiscal 2013 guidance for revenues of between $1.62 billion and $1.65 billion and adjusted earnings per share between $2.10 and $2.20 per share.
For purposes of comparing our full year adjusted earnings per share to our guidance on an apples-to-apples basis you should exclude the fourth quarter $0.10 per share favorable impact of the remeasurement gain which was unknown at the time we reaffirmed our full year guidance during the third quarter earnings call.
And thus you would compare $2.29 per share to the $2.10 to $2.20 per share guidance range provided.
Regarding this comparison we achieved double-digit year-over-year revenue growth in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Technology segments in the fourth quarter as we benefited from stronger-than-expected demand.
In addition these businesses were not impacted by the year-end holiday seasonality to the degree anticipated in our guidance.
As a result the company achieved full year revenue at the upper end of its guidance range and exceeded the upper end of its adjusted earnings per share guidance range.
With regards to capital allocation we continued our balanced approach.
In the fourth quarter the company spent $14.7 million on acquisitions and committed $22.4 million to repurchase and retire approximately 535 000 shares of the company's common stock.
For the full year 2013 the company spent $55.5 million on acquisitions and committed $71.1 million to repurchase and retire approximately 1.96 million shares.
Turning to our cash position.
For the year net cash provided by operating activities was $193.3 million an increase of $73.1 million as compared to the prior year period.
This increase was primarily due to slightly higher cash collections lower employee bonus and lower income tax payments.
Cash and cash equivalents were $205.8 million at December 31 2013.
Although overall cash collections were higher the rate of collection slowed somewhat as days sales outstanding or DSOs during the quarter increased 7 days to 97 days as compared to the prior year quarter.
This increase in DSOs was largely driven by a shift in both service and geographic mix as our receivables balance grew in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring business in Asia Pacific relative to the growth in other segments and regions primarily as a result of our acquisitions over the last 16 months of 2 Corporate Finance and advisory businesses in Australia.
These businesses naturally experienced longer billing and collection times as an extended regulatory process dictates the timing of billing and collections resulting in higher average DSOs.
During the quarter we incurred a special charge of $27.6 million of which $10.9 million is noncash in nature.
This charge was primarily for severance and acceleration of expense for certain retention bonuses equity awards and transition service payments related to the transition of former executives.
In addition it includes the acceleration of contractual transition service expense for a senior client service professional within the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment.
Turning to our segments' performance.
In the fourth quarter our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment continued its strong performance with revenues of $114.7 million increasing 18% year-over-year.
Results were driven by higher demand and success fees in our health solutions practice and strength in our financial and enterprise data analytics or FEDA practice.
Our health solutions practice revenue increased 57.1% over the prior year quarter and 19% sequentially on strong demand for our performance improvement and physician integration services.
Our FEDA practice continued to emerge as a market leader as revenues nearly doubled compared to the prior-year period.
This increase was driven by strong demand for larger disputes in mortgage-backed securities engagements.
For the year Forensic and Litigation Consulting revenues increased 6.4%.
This increase was largely driven by the 23.6% year-over-year increase in our health solutions practice.
In 2013 we saw positive litigation market trends emerge with securities litigations filings increasing 10% compared to 2012.
Looking forward we see encouraging signs for a more robust accounting and investigatory task force at the SEC.
And we're positioned as one of the few independent providers of these services that can compete on a global basis.
In our health solutions practice we continued to benefit from the disruption occurring in the health care industry.
Looking forward as many of our provider clients are starting to feel the impacts of the Affordable Care Act and experience revenue shortfalls we expect demand for our physician integration and clinical and business model transformation services to remain robust in 2014.
In Economic Consulting fourth quarter revenues of $108 million increased 12.9% year-over-year.
The increase in revenues was driven by the strong performance of the segment's antitrust litigation services in the North American and EMEA regions and its international arbitration regulatory and valuation practices in the EMEA region.
Our fourth quarter results cap off an outstanding year for our Economic Consulting business.
In 2013 revenues increased 14.2% year-over-year.
This strong performance was driven by our market-leading professionals several of whom we recently agreed to extend employment agreements with which I will discuss later.
In Technology fourth quarter revenues of $53.6 million increased 12.6% year-over-year.
Similar to our third quarter results our strategic investments in products people and business development contributed to our performance.
We benefited from strong demand across our complete suite of e-discovery software and services.
We also continued to observe rising demand globally for our end-to-end capabilities particularly from corporations seeking long-term provider relationships.
According to our clients our e-discovery software and the depth of our global experience are key factors in their decision to engage us long-term.
For the year Technology revenues increased 3.8% compared to the prior year.
Our ability to earn business from new clients while furthering developing -- further developing our relationship with existing clients helped to offset the challenging headwinds associated with the decline of certain large engagements as well as unfavorable pricing pressure for our unit-based offerings.
Turning to Corporate Finance/Restructuring fourth quarter revenues of $92.8 million decreased 14.5% year-over-year.
Revenue increases in Asia Pacific primarily related to an acquisition of an Australian-based corporate recovery business were unable to offset the continued weakness in our core North American bankruptcy and restructuring business.
In the fourth quarter demand remained depressed for restructuring activity as a result of the strong high-yield debt financing markets and historically low U.S.
corporate default rates.
A recent report from the American Bankruptcy Institute found that 2013 business bankruptcy filings in the U.S.
dropped 24% compared to 2012 their lowest level since 2006.
Lower success fees versus the prior year quarter also contributed to the year-over-year decline.
For the year Corporate Finance/Restructuring revenues decreased 3.1% as the impact of acquired revenue was unable to fully offset the revenue shortfall in North America.
In light of the challenging bankruptcy and restructuring backdrop in North America we continue to focus on our go-to-market initiatives for our non-distressed product offerings which now represent approximately 35% of segment revenues.
However these services generate profit margins below the levels we have historically achieved in our core bankruptcy and restructuring practice.
In Strategic Communications fourth quarter revenues of $46.9 million declined 6.8% year-over-year.
Revenues were lower due to reduced pass-through revenues and project revenues in the EMEA and North American regions.
While our Strategic Communications segment remains the global leader for M&amp;A financial communications by volume the financial transactions business continues to experience pricing pressure and reduced activity.
For the full year revenues in Strategic Communications fell just under 1%.
From a geographic perspective fourth quarter Asia Pacific revenues increased 15.4% year-over-year with 26% and 15% year-over-year increases in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Corporate Finance/Restructuring businesses respectively during the quarter.
Corporate Finance/Restructuring revenues were largely driven by $4.9 million of acquired revenues.
Our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment revenues in the region were bolstered by contributions from its construction solutions practice as it continues to experience significant growth as we invest in building out that team.
For the year revenues in Asia Pacific increased 32.8%.
The revenue increase was again largely driven by acquired revenues in Australia.
Outside of Australia we see opportunities to enhance our position in Singapore in both our Forensic and Litigation and Economic Consulting businesses where we realized year-over-year revenue increases.
In EMEA fourth quarter revenues increased 12.9% year-over-year driven by a 55.2% increase in Economic Consulting revenues and a doubling of Technology revenues.
During the quarter our Economic Consulting business benefited from strength in our European international arbitration and antitrust practices.
The uptick in Technology revenues was driven by increasing client demand for technology providers with a global reach as this continues to be an important factor in winning work on complex cross-border investigations and transactions.
For the year revenues increased 9.9% in EMEA.
Revenues were driven by solid top line increases out of the U.K.
and a 47.4% increase in revenues in our Belgium office.
In Latin America revenues decreased 0.6% for the quarter as increases in Corporate Finance/Restructuring revenues were unable to offset revenue declines in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Strategic Communications businesses.
For the year Latin America revenues fell 11.9% primarily due to softer demand in that region.
In North America fourth quarter revenues increased 1.5% year-over-year.
This increase was largely driven by a 25.7% revenue increase in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment.
Within our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment our health solutions practice increased 57% year-over-year.
This strength along with the 5.3% and 3.9% year-over-year revenue increases in our Technology and Economic Consulting segments respectively was offset by the previously mentioned challenging revenue headwinds in our core North America bankruptcy and restructuring business.
For the year North American revenues increased 2.4% as declines in our core North American restructuring and bankruptcy business were offset by double-digit revenue increases in our Economic Consulting and Forensic and Litigation Consulting businesses.
Our Forensic and Litigation Consulting growth was again largely driven by a 23.6% increase in health solutions revenues compared to the prior year period.
Turning to our 2014 outlook.
The guidance provided in this morning's press release is only for the first quarter of 2014 not the full year as has been our historical practice.
As Steve will discuss in more detail later he is leading a strategic review of the company's markets services and clients.
And in light of possible strategic and operating changes coming from that review we are only providing guidance for the first quarter of 2014.
We intend to provide second quarter guidance during our first quarter earnings call in early May and update its full year 2014 guidance in June.
These particular changes in guidance should not be viewed as a permanent change to the company's guidance practices.
As you know from prior years our first quarter include several cost items that don't recur in the second and later quarters of the year.
Also for the first quarter of 2014 we have certain investments which continue to impact our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share such as the organic investment in our United Kingdom-based transaction advisory services practice which we first announced in our third quarter 2013 earnings call.
I will discuss these issues in more detail shortly.
Walking our fourth quarter 2013 results forward to our first quarter 2014 guidance may better explain our guidance.
Our fourth quarter 2013 revenue of $416 million falls within our first quarter guidance range of $410 million to $425 million.
So on a consolidated basis we are seeing a revenue opportunity reasonably consistent with the fourth quarter of 2013.
However we are anticipating some differences in our mix of revenues by segment which will impact consolidated adjusted EBITDA margins.
For example although we anticipate flat to slightly increasing revenue for our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 we don't expect the segment's higher-margin health solutions practice to represent the same proportion of the segment's revenues in the first quarter of 2014 that it did in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Likewise in Technology we anticipate revenue in the first quarter of 2014 to be flat to increasing by low-single-digit percentages.
However adjusted segment EBITDA margins are expected to be continued to be affected by pricing pressure and business mix.
For our Corporate Finance and Restructuring segment we continue to face weak demand for our historically high-margin bankruptcy and restructuring business in North America.
To give this some perspective speculative-grade debt issuance volume totaled $476.5 billion in 2013 the highest on record marking a 12% increase from 2012 according to Dealogic.
Moreover U.S.
junk bond issuance in 2013 totaled $324 billion the second-largest yearly figure ever according to S&amp;P Capital.
And the high-yield market ended 2013 on a relatively high active note with roughly $22 billion in volume during December.
Thus we currently expect first quarter 2014 revenues to be flat-to-down by mid-single-digit percentages.
And as you know this segment has historically represented one of our higher-adjusted segment EBITDA margin businesses.
In Economic Consulting we're currently anticipating revenues in the first quarter of 2014 to be relatively flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 due to a relatively slow ramp-up of employee utilization in January 2014 following the completion of several large client matters and year-end holidays.
Moreover we remain concerned that the market seems to lack confidence about moving past the first look M&amp;A stage.
Much has been published about the strength of M&amp;A fundamentals and the uptick in early-stage M&amp;A activity but a lack of willingness to pull the trigger seems to remain.
Likewise for our financial litigation business the levels of activity created by the 2008 financial crisis will wane at some point.
In 2013 federal cases in which financial institutions were named as defendants represented 24% of all federal cases up slightly from 23% in 2012 but well below the 67% and 63% of total cases witnessed during the peak of the credit crisis in 2008 and 2009.
In addition we will begin incurring a higher employee compensation cost as a result of recent senior professional employment agreement extensions which will impact adjusted segment EBITDA margin in this segment.
Finally we anticipate revenues in our Strategic Communications segment to be down by mid single-digit percentages in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to the fourth quarter due to the continued challenging capital markets activity and pricing pressure for our financial communications services.
According to Mergermarket after improving 28% year-over-year in the third quarter of 2013 core fourth quarter deal flow caused M&amp;A value to drop 3% in 2013 compared to 2012.
In Europe where this segment has its greatest exposure fourth quarter M&amp;A value was down almost 40% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Turning to the cost side of our guidance.
As I mentioned earlier during the fourth quarter of 2013 we reached agreement with several of our Economic Consulting segment's most senior client service professionals to extend their employment agreements through the year 2023.
As a result of increased bonus and other compensation opportunities for these and other professionals participating in the segment's bonus pools we estimate that adjusted segment EBITDA margin for 2014 and forward will be reduced by 400 to 500 basis points.
However this range is dependent upon the actual revenue levels due to the variable nature of much of this segment's compensation structure.
Regarding other cost items our first quarter typically has increased employee benefits costs for higher FICA and 401(k) expenses as a result of our annual performance bonus payment.
Equity compensation expense is also higher in the first quarter due to the fact that many of our senior managing directors receive a portion of their bonus awards in equity grants.
Depending on length of service and retirement eligibility of these SMDs certain of these awards vest upon grant which produces this onetime spike in expense in March.
Our marketing and business development expenses are also increased in the first quarter due to 2 large client-focused events we sponsor during the quarter.
Finally for the first quarter of 2014 we will incur double rent for both our existing London office facilities and our new London office which we are moving into as we speak and we'll complete that move by the end of the first quarter.
On a combined basis these 4 increased expense categories create a reduction in fourth quarter adjusted EPS of between 15% and 20% -- or $0.15 and $0.20 per share as compared to other quarters in the year.
Based on current market conditions and the segment level drivers described above the company estimates that revenues for the first quarter of 2014 will be between $410 million and $425 million and adjusted earnings per share will be between $0.20 and $0.28 per share.
This guidance assumes no acquisitions and no share repurchases.
With that I will turn the call back to Steve for his closing remarks.
Thank you Roger.
With that description I'm sure many of you have questions for Roger and Dave on both last year's results and the outlook for the first quarter.
So let me just say a few words before I turn the call back to them so they can answer your questions.
As I mentioned before obviously none of us are excited about the first quarter outlook that Roger just outlined.
But I want to stress that I remain fundamentally excited about the core capabilities of this business and where it can go.
I've been in this job only 4 weeks but I've spent -- an intensive 4 weeks.
I spent 4 weeks on the road meeting the team not just the management team which is an impressive team but also the folks who are driving the business people who are collaborating with clients day-to-day.
And I've had the chance to meet with some of those clients as well.
And I've done this in a number of cities.
I've been to New York Chicago Los Angeles San Francisco Australia Hong Kong Singapore London Milan Madrid.
And next week I'm going to Latin America and a couple of other U.S.
cities.
The cities of course are different.
Our practices are different in those cities the individuals are different but in every one of those markets I walked away with a clarity a strong conviction that we have in every one of those markets unbelievably dedicated people who are making a major difference every day for our clients and people who have passion to take this company to the next level.
That sort of enthusiasm together with the capabilities we have in professional services firm is the key.
It is something we can work with.
When I arrived home from that first trip very tired pretty jet lagged I told my wife that I was more excited than ever about the opportunities that this company has.
There are of course areas for improvement in every business and no business can stand still.
And that's true for us as well.
There's obviously much work to be done here to realize your aspirations for this company as well as ours.
It's too early today for me to outline specific plans but let me give you a sense of the processes we have under way.
First of all I want to make sure I extend an invitation to each of you to the upcoming Investor Day on June 16 in New York City.
I'm very much hoping you can all be there at least for a chance for me to get to meet you and to talk with you one-on-one but also I think it's the first Investor Day we've had in 6 years.
It'll be a terrific time for us to talk not just about a vision but I'm intending for us to share concrete plans about where we see this company going and a sense of ownership of those plans accountabilities timelines deliverables and deadlines.
Before I started at this firm last month I hosted a 2-day offsite with the top management where I asked the team to bring to the table their most powerful ideas for where this company could go where we could take this company in the medium-term in 36 months to 54 months where we could take this company in the next 18 months and ways that we could fund the journey.
And what are the cultural strengths we have that we can build on and what are the cultural inhibitions that we need to change.
It was a great meeting I think regarded by all as a great meeting and importantly a long list of powerful ideas emerged.
For every idea someone in that meeting took ownership to pull the thinking together -- the initial thinking together figure out where we can take it to go and what we need to do to supplement that thinking to take it to action.
That group will be meeting again shortly in March and then again in April.
And out of those meetings we will set the initial direction for the company for change.
Those are the plans that will be shared with the board and then with all of you in June.
I've had the chance even while I've been traveling to sit with people and see some of the initial work some with Roger and David in the room some with others some of our segment leaders and some of the region heads.
Where I've done that I and the others in the room have tended to walk away from those conversations feeling very good with a sense that there's real granular opportunities in front of this company things that we can do not just in the 3- and 5-year time frame or a 1- or 2-year time frame but things that we can begin to move on boldly in the second and third and fourth quarter of 2014 that can make a difference for the business and for our shareholders.
So with that let me say thanks for taking the time here today.
I very much look forward to meeting each of you.
Thank you for the support you've given to this company.
With that let me turn this back to Roger and Dave and open the floor for your questions on our quarterly and full-year results.
Roger Dave? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Tim McHugh at William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I guess first just on the Economic segment you talked about extending the employment agreement.
I'm sorry you ran through those quickly so I may have -- if you could just refresh the numbers that you said about the margin hit.
And what was the impetus for -- I mean were the employment agreements expiring here? Or what made you have to re-up this and I guess pay the consultants more to keep them engaged? And I guess what do you get for this how long do you -- have you locked these consultants in for? So Tim I'll restate what I said so it's clear and then David will go into a little more depth on the actual changes.
But what I've indicated was is that we -- those are variable compensation arrangements so we're -- it's an estimate but we're estimating a between 400- and 500-basis-point reduction to adjusted segment EBITDA margin from the levels it was running as it exited 2013.
And David background.
Yes Tim let me try and make a few points on the Economic business.
As you know that is a business that has tremendous intellectual capital that is populated by people of -- the world-renowned Nobel Prize winners very productive and very important people.
This process was an important process in terms of getting the top 10 folks contracted for the balance of the decade.
We now have our top 10 economists who are committed to us and enthusiastically contracted to us through periods ranging from 2020 to 2023.
I would point out that the margins that are implied by this are consistent with some of the wording Roger has been giving over the last number of quarters where we have been consistently saving we were operating at the high end of the possible margin range for this business and that having the implied margins adhere [ph] of the 15% to 16% is very consistent with past margins we've had at this business but also with where we've been trying to steer people.
And also I would point out those margins are well above our public peers who operate in this space.
So this is still a very profitable business and a very good business at those levels.
But we do think that it is appropriate and important to have these people signed up to long-term agreements where we know that we have the value of their services.
The really important thing in the business too is by securing those top folks it really provides solidity and continuity to the totality of the team.
Tim as you and I have discussed before one of the real advantages that we think we have in that business is the high-quality staff that those people the Ph.D.s who -- or aspiring Ph.D.s who work for us really gravitate toward these top economists.
And having the ability to articulate to that staff the continuity of those top people for a long period of time is a huge advantage to us.
So we're very excited very enthused about this.
There are other elements of the re-contracting that have benefits for other people within the group.
But we think it is now a business model that is secure that is appropriate for those -- for that business and one that we're very pleased to be going forward with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful I guess.
And then on the restructuring business I get -- obviously everyone knows that high-yield markets are on fire and restructuring is facing pressure.
But I guess beyond the kind of market trends I've also heard some commentary or people speculating on some of the traditional investment banks trying to push further into other areas of restructuring and trying to keep more of whatever work there is out there for themselves.
Basically I guess both -- more so on the debtor side than the creditor side.
But can you talk competitively what are you seeing in the traditional restructuring business and does that -- are you seeing any impact I guess from -- in terms of the market share underlying that business? Tim I think that's as always with you a very good observation and one that we are watching carefully.
What I think has happened to a large number of resignments [ph] because of the tremendous liquidity in the market whether it's the high-yield market or we're back to covenant-light loans in a very aggressive banking market again.
It is that projects that heretofore had moved into restructuring into pre-bankruptcy or actually bankruptcy or getting refinanced prior to us getting to them.
So while I don't see a tremendous amount of change in the nature of the services being provided by the investment banks they're not putting large teams of people into projects and billing by the hour and trying to restate financial statements and so forth they are aggressively in with refinancing proposals.
I think we spoke earlier in the year for example about JCPenney which was a pretty highly visible distressed credit where a number of firms like us thought it might move into a restructuring and they had a $1 billion-plus refinancing led by Goldman.
Those are the sorts of things that really seem to be going on with the investment banks.
We do have -- and I think you'll hear in June some thoughts about how to keep repositioning our Corporate Finance business into earlier-stage services for companies that are undergoing distress.
I was with one of the top LBO guys over the weekend who sort of comes from that background and we were talking a lot about how our services might extend to helping companies not go into bankruptcy.
We would refer to them as performance improvement.
Certainly you know Jay Alex [ph] and others have gotten more aggressive in there.
And I know that Steve and -- with our Corporate Finance team thinks there are opportunities for us there.
I would point out that some of the large strategic consulting firms have also moved into this space a bit.
So McKinsey now has stood up a restructuring team and is trying to compete actively for business and compete actively in some of the channels we work through.
So the large law firms and so forth that sometimes tapped them on the shoulder for performance improvement work that we would think would have historically been in our space.
But yes it is an issue and we're -- the demand level is so light that a lot of people are trying to find ways to keep people busy so...
Our next question is from Tobey Sommer at SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Frank in for Tobey.
I wanted to ask about the health solutions practice.
It had good performance but what do you see going forward there? Your comments were a little bit more cautious in terms of what you see and the visibility going forward.
And if you could just give us an idea of the size and trajectory of that business.
Frank it's Dave again.
Let me start out with that and I'll kick it back to Roger for the numbers on it.
We separated that practice out as a separate practice within our organizational structure almost exactly a year ago.
And our thought on that was we had a number of professionals operating inside different segments somewhat independently and in an uncoordinated fashion.
And we like others believe there was a significant strategic opportunity to grow there.
That decision I think in retrospect has proven to be a very good one.
57% growth in the fourth quarter for that first business will be evidence of that.
We now have teams working closely together.
And frankly we have a streamlined process to add the sorts of professionals we need in that business.
That business for us requires some unusual skills.
We have physicians in that business we have nurse practitioners in that business we have folks of different skills than we have other places and we were frankly a little sluggish when we had it buried underneath sort of accounting-oriented practices to be able to make those decisions.
So we continue to think it's a business that we're very excited about.
As we look into the first quarter it could be a little bit -- a little bit of a -- slower only because of some of the timing of success fees and so forth.
We all follow Huron for example and you see their quarters bounce around quite a bit and they often point to the timing of success fees.
So we're looking for a little bit of a slowdown with respect to just some timing on that.
But Roger do you want to add? I think that's exactly right.
I would only add one thing.
We obviously had very very strong growth in that business in 2013.
You saw the growth numbers that we had in the fourth quarter 57% year-over-year and 19% sequentially and 24% across the full year versus the prior year.
And so the challenge that that creates in trying to maintain growth rates at that level is people.
You have to find people and get them integrated and acculturated and up and running on those client projects.
So I think if there's any cautiousness it's more in the people side I think than the market side.
I think we said on our last call as well that while we certainly will look at the nonorganic meaning acquisition ways to growing that business our experience right now is that to the extent profits are trading -- they're trading at valuations that imply growth rates and profitability that we don't think are sustainable in that business and so we've been cautious about deploying additional capital there.
We are aggressively recruiting.
Certainly for any of you on the phone who are listening who know people in this space we'd love to see their résumés but I think we will continue to look at acquisitions we will think about acquisitions but the valuations seem pretty rich in that space now to me.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And as far as the items that you've highlighted that made the $0.15 to $0.20 impact in 1Q guidance the double rent the business development will any of those spill over into 2Q? And is there a trajectory later in the year with those or are they generally a 1Q event? By and large for -- all of those items those are 1Q events only.
I mean with your FICA as your -- depending on where your employees are in their pay versus the cap that can -- that burns off throughout the year.
But based on our bonus payments being in March that tends to all fall in the first quarter.
You might have a little bit but it'd almost -- it would be close to negligible in the second and later quarters.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in corporate restructuring can you remind us what percent of the business is outside of North America and how the trajectory of that is going? You highlighted the North American trends in your prepared remarks.
Actually can you state that question again? Inc.
Research Division</strong> In corporate restructuring how much of that is outside the U.S.
or outside of North America and what are the trends there? We have 2 -- we actually have 3 significant businesses outside the U.S.
Frank in Corporate Finance and corporate restructuring.
We have a practice in EMEA which is primarily headquartered in London.
That businesses is roughly a $50 million annual-sized business.
We have a good strong business in Latin America that is primarily in Mexico and Brazil.
That business would be in the $15-ish million size.
And then of course we have the Asian business which we have grown very significantly over the last several years starting with the FS Asia acquisition a couple of years ago and then the 2 recent acquisitions in Australia and that business Roger is $150 million? Not quite that.
No.
It's 20 40 roughly -- we'll get you that number as the call proceeds.
We have that on a sheet of paper here.
In terms of trends the European business had a very good year and feels -- I mean it's a small practice but in a very good year I would say it is more dependent episodically on engagements versus participating in the market broadly just because of the size of the business.
So winning or losing individual engagements there becomes significant.
I think we're thinking for a year in 2014 that looks a lot like 2013.
Latin America where we think we're pretty much the market leader there.
It is obviously a much smaller economy but Mexico and Brazil both are -- have situations going on in terms of their economies particularly Brazil where we think there is opportunity.
Brazil's new for us.
We just moved a very strong professional there last year and I would say we're ramping up there.
And I think we think that has a significant potential albeit off of a small base.
Asia is a more complicated story.
Australia the Australian market as I'm sure you know has been an economy that has slowed a fair amount particularly with the lack of Chinese investment there over the last 12 to 18 months.
And so I would say reasonable level of expectation of business there.
It's a -- we are a good solid participant in that market.
There are several others so we are trying through the acquisitions we did there we're trying to move our practices into being the top tier provider there.
That will take some time but I think we're pretty optimistic about it.
We really like our new professionals there.
We've got a bright young team very aggressive and they will benefit which no other firm has there they will benefit from the international platform that we have.
So the relationships that we have with the major law firms in London in particular and the major financing resources in London in Latin America and in Hong Kong and in the United States should provide cross-border opportunities for them that really set them ahead of the other competitors in that space.
Roger do you have that number? Yes just on the numbers about 30% to 35% of the Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment is outside of the United States or North America.
And about $60 million of that on an annual run rate currently is in Asia Pacific.
I'm sorry I gave the total Asia Pacific revenue number.
I apologize for that Frank.
Our next question is from Jason Anderson at Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I wanted to start off with Corporate Finance.
You mentioned the 1Q I believe you said flat to down mid-single-digits in 1Q.
How should we think about -- I know you don't want to give too much '14 guidance but just in general should we think about that as a trend for '14? And then also with that how should we think about margins? You guys obviously had the EBITDA margin degradation this year in '13.
Should we -- how should we think about that in '14? And maybe with that any potential further cost reduction in that area? It's Dave.
I'll start again and let Roger jump in as well.
At this point in time we don't see any evidence of an improving demand market in 2014.
As you know these things can change quickly.
We saw the Fed notes this morning for example talking about their opportunity to start increasing interest rates later in the year.
I mean those sorts of things can happen but at this point in time our plan and our budget is based on a continued lackluster demand environment particularly in North America.
So I think we would expect the revenue levels to be consistent with that.
In terms of margins yes we certainly have seen margin degradation there.
And the first quarter numbers would suggest no management actions in terms of cost containment or what have you.
If the trends continue we've got to look hard at that as we have in the past.
But at this point in time it's premature to talk about what sort of cost actions we might take.
We also are trying hard to develop some adjacent services the so-called non-distressed services to use some of these very talented people we have there and in effect get them busy working on other stuff.
So we're going to go through the strategic review.
We've got a lot of work to do on that but if you look at the pure metrics the revenue per professional and so forth and so on are not really sustainable at these levels.
We would have to eventually take action.
Yes.
So I think to add to that as you know by looking at the prior 4 quarters in 2013 the revenue line for the Corporate Finance/Restructuring business stepped down each quarter.
And although we are saying we think it's flattish to maybe down a little bit in the first quarter we're not saying yet that we're calling out a bottom.
As you'll recall in 2011 we got to a point coming off the sort of the '09 '10 peak and we called a bottom and we stayed there for 6-plus quarters.
Now we started again sort of a stepdown.
And we don't know I think exactly where the bottom is.
So we're watching that closely.
As we've talked about in the past it's difficult to manage margin in a position where the revenue's moving down because it's hard to set your complement of resources and people against the revenue demand.
But we are actively looking at that with the dealership and there are opportunities to deal with those things.
As we mentioned also in the earlier comments as David said as we move toward some of those more early-stage or non-distressed kinds of services the margins for those services are not at our historically high bankruptcy margins.
And then as David said and we said in the comments that a lot of -- you see some of this effect all around.
The majority of this effect of course is in the North American market.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
And then when it comes to your success fees do you guys -- can you quantify that what that was in FY '13 and then how we should think about that into '14? Well as you know we don't disclose the amount of success fees in our filings.
And the reason for that is is except when they get -- some very unusual things happen like with the forensic litigation consulting success fee in the third quarter of last year they're not a significant portion of our revenue at this time.
They don't impact it significantly one way or the other.
I don't know Dave do you have anything else to add to that? Our success fees have historically came to us in our Corporate Finance and recovery business.
And those are obviously down because that business is down.
On the other hand some of our new practice lines are starting to have more success fee-like elements to them.
So the health solutions business will often have I would call it a performance-based fee.
If you're able to accomplish certain savings objectives or other performance measurement kinds of things there will be additional fees typically admeasured at the end of engagement.
And so in that business I would think we'll see more of that sort of fee going forward.
We also as you know are seeing more non-hourly-based fee arrangements in our -- really in our Forensic business and in our Corporate Finance business.
So either a fixed fee or an hourly fee with a cap or some of those sorts of things.
So we're seeing different what we call alternative fee arrangements.
I don't think that the success fees are a -- they're not a meaningful part of the business in terms of analyzing the business on a consolidated basis over the year but bouncing a couple of million bucks between a quarter can oftentimes affect the quarterly performance.
And that's really what we were trying to talk about was just the -- because they have virtually 100% flow-through in terms of earnings.
Our next question is from Paul Ginocchio at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Roger sorry if I missed some of this but I was just trying to run these numbers and it looks like a year ago in the first quarter you had a 13 -- I think it was the 13.5% EBITDA margin.
Sorry no -- maybe -- sorry 14.6% EBITDA margin.
And this year you're guiding to be down 5 or 6 points year-on-year.
Some of that obviously -- I'm trying to capture that year-on-year -- the seasonal impact of FICA and all the other payroll taxes by looking at the year-on-year.
I'm just trying to understand how much of that 5 or 6 points is structural because of economics and mix shift and how much is just onetime that's going to kind of dissipate as the year progresses? Sure Paul.
You're comparing against first quarter '13 to first quarter '14 guidance was that your comparison? Research Division</strong> Yes it's down 5 or 6 points.
How much of that 5 or 6 points dissipates how much is structural for the year? Right.
Well I think in comparing those 2 quarters of course you'd capture -- you have the same onetime effect that -- already in both for the benefits and the equity comps.
So that's not the explanation between those 2 quarters.
The primary explanation between first quarter a year ago and first quarter guidance today is in Corporate Finance/Restructuring and Economic Consulting.
So in Corporate Finance/Restructuring as we said that was their highest-revenue quarter of 2013 and their mix would have been better at that point in time burning off still some of their -- of those bankruptcy matters.
So you had more revenue and you had a better margin mix of revenue for Corporate Finance in that year.
In Economic Consulting as we spoke about those the re-signing of -- the contract extensions of those senior professionals that cost that starts in the first quarter of this year of course was not there last year.
So that margin would be down in the first quarter of '14 relative to the first quarter of '13.
And that's -- there's a few other ins and outs but that's the primary differences.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to repeat Dave just -- Dave's answer just said that there's no upturn in Corporate Fin/Restructuring this year so that's sort of going to be stuck with us correct? Could change any time? [ph] I think those 2 effects we -- yes those 2 effects we just spoke about at least the cost effect of Economic Consulting again is an estimate based on what actual revenues come in but the effect is -- will persist for the full year.
And at the moment we're not seeing -- the restructuring markets in the North American region we're not seeing that come back.
So as David said that could change quickly but we are not seeing that at the moment.
And we'll take David Gold from Sidoti.
LLC</strong> A couple of relatively quick ones.
First there was some commentary in the release about -- in Restructuring some gain for -- it sounded like a departure.
Can you give a little bit more color on that? It seems [ph] fairly senior level if it's that big of gain or am I reading that incorrectly? Yes well there's -- I think the gain that's referred to is a remeasurement gain which relates to the new accounting for business combinations or acquisitions.
So there was a gain in the fourth quarter that added $0.10 to adjusted EBITDA for the quarter.
And that relates to essentially putting a present value on the expected future earnout payments of acquisitions.
We have to do -- you have to make that estimate for the full period which in most cases for us is a 5-plus year period of time you're sort of forecasting and estimating.
That's not related to any one person that's related to an acquisition.
And those acquisitions we're speaking about are those 2 that were the Australian market for the Corporate Finance/Restructuring business.
We also spoke about a special charge which was an expense or cost item that dealt with individuals.
And there was one as we referenced in the Corporate Finance/Restructuring business.
I don't maybe -- which of those 2 items did you want to go into David? LLC</strong> It was the second sorry.
[indiscernible] gain but I meant the charge.
And so...
So what was the question about that? LLC</strong> Just if it's worth discussing given it's a $4 million charge so -- that it seems like it must be a senior-level person anything to talk about there as far as the departure? Voluntary involuntary? So it's not a departure.
It was -- it is a senior client service person in the Corporate Finance segment.
It's essentially an accounting -- it's just an accounting entry made based on the probability a relative proportion of future service and the transition service agreement versus current service.
And so it doesn't affect the individual being here or being employed at this time.
It just is an accounting entry that references what we think the relative value of current services versus the relative value of future service.
LLC</strong> Got it got it.
So is that another way to say the person is underperforming based on the projection? No.
It's essentially just contract accounting.
I mean I can describe it in more detail maybe privately.
But just think of it as a lease.
If you had a lease on a building and you determined that that lease wasn't going to have the same utility in the future that you expected you would probably recognize more of the expense of that upfront.
So it's just -- it doesn't change the person's here the person's working they have an employment agreement.
That employment agreement had a transition service agreement included in it for the years after the full employment term and there's just a change in the expectations or probabilities of the value of current service versus the value of future service in that transition period and it creates an accounting charge.
LLC</strong> Got you got you.
Okay.
And then on the Economic side Roger when you described the 4 areas that were impeding margins in the first quarter I couldn't tell if you were suggesting that the Economic piece of that is just a first quarter event as in sort of onetime upfront signing bonuses or is that here to stay? No.
I want to be sure we're clear on that.
I mean the extension of those agreements which as David said has a very positive effect of keeping that senior team intact for in some cases a 10-year period and in some maybe an 8-year period.
But those come with an increased compensation arrangements that will persist for that entire period of time.
So it's hard to say what the actual effect will be over the entire 10-year period because they are variable compensation arrangements and it depends a great deal on what happens in terms of revenue.
But at the moment we're thinking for '14 that's between 400 and 500 basis points.
But the arrangement will continue beyond '14 as well.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just I guess one broader -- and maybe it's clear but I just want to be sure I'm catching it.
When we talk about -- this might be for Steve if he's willing how the plan to evaluate the business in an Analyst Day in June is that to suggest that the formal plan won't be out until June? I think that is the plan.
We -- I think look the company hasn't had a new CEO in quite a while.
And I think the goal here is to figure out the next generation of success for this company.
There's been a great history of this company.
But I think all of us believe that we have to not just rely on our history but figure out how we're going to take this company to the next level not only next year but the next 3 5 years in a way that you guys are excited about and all these employees are excited about as well.
And I wish I was magical enough to travel around the world learn the business figure out what Ringtail is and magically come up with a strategy that has all the elements of it and a concrete deliverable plan and accountabilities that you all would believe in in 15 days.
But that talented [indiscernible] I'm not.
And then also obviously there's some processes you need to follow.
You have to come up with the idea you have to vet them you have to figure out who's going to do what and then you have to actually share them and make sure everybody's aligned on that.
So I think we want to get out to you as quickly as possible.
You've been a tremendous support for the company and obviously this has a sense ambiguity.
But I would tell you my sense is this will only be positive stuff you're going to hear.
I just needed the time to get it into a form that I'm comfortable with the team has bought off on there's ownership of it and that you would believe.
And so I think -- I talked with Mollie and Roger and also scrambled for dates and venues and I think we came up with the June date.
LLC</strong> Perfect perfect.
Now just one last one and then I'll let you all be.
There's been a ton of speculation on the Street given some decently significant insiders selling at the senior levels of other potential departures.
Are there any folks who've left who we should be aware of at the senior level? No of course -- David it's Roger.
If you were to name an executive officer there'd be an 8-k that would tell you that person was leaving.
So there had been nobody leave at that level there's been nobody leave in our executive committee at this time.
So I mean the only people whose employment status changed really were Dennis' and Jack's.
Dennis retired and Jack ended his term as CEO.
So that was the changes.
I mean I think if you think about those insider sales which I think we can all understand that question there were people there -- I can't answer for them but I can tell you for myself I haven't sold a share in 10 years.
And so it came at a point in time where you're making that change you can actually do that.
We all know if I had sold in the past I'd get this exact question and somehow it sends a signal.
So I think it was -- I think there were probably differing reasons for each person and you'd have to maybe hear from them individually.
But there's been no changes in employment status for anybody at this time.
Our next question comes from Joseph Foresi at Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to start off first on the margin side.
Is it true -- I mean I just -- I want to make sure that I got this correctly that the Corp Fin and the Econ those are the biggest hits to the margin profile on 1Q? Do I have that correct? Yes comparing from last year first quarter to this year first quarter those would be the 2 biggest impacts.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So I guess my question is why at this point in time are you starting to wrap up or are trying to lock in the economists in that business? Has competition gotten harder there in -- over the last couple of quarters and now you felt it was important to lock them up? Or why make that move now? Well I want to be clear that the margin reduction is the result of locking them up.
Locking them up is the result of having the best people in the business that was -- that grew dramatically for the last several years.
We want to be sure that we retain their talents and abilities for the future.
So it costs more to do that but we're not locking them up at a time the business is going down we're locking them up at a time the business has been very strong.
And we think we have the best people in that business compared to any of their competitors in that sector.
We clearly had several of the major economists whose relationships with us were coming to a contractual end.
And we were the beneficiary of attractive contractual terms that are entered into at a time when their production and the scale of the business was significantly smaller.
So just like the NFL we had some beneficial contracts over the last several years from some of these senior folks and it was time to re-sign them at market-reasonable rates and hence the margin profile which I tried to talk about is consistent with what we would have had several years ago and it's also still significantly superior to our peer groups.
So we don't -- we think it was a prudent action.
We think it was an important action.
We think we paid reasonable market rates for the people that was consistent with their now current production and the production of that business unit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then in the other businesses FLC Technology Strategic Communications can you just remind us of what you're expecting on the margins? I mean it sounds like -- I know Technology you pointed out they were going to be down; Strategic Communications down.
Obviously not the same impact as Corp Fin and Econ but can we just run through one more time what the details are on the margin profile for those for 1Q? Well for FLC I think that you have 2 effects going on there.
So you have overall we're saying they're going to be flat to up mid-single digits in their revenue.
The mix of the revenue shifting a bit in the first quarter as compared to the prior fourth quarter we don't think that the health solutions will be as big a proportion of that total segment revenue.
And health solutions has had higher margins.
So you're going to get a little bit of mix effect there.
But you're getting some uplift by the fact that the investigations portion of the business and disputes portion as we mentioned is improving.
So -- and I think that's a market that starting in the sort of the third quarter of last year and the fourth quarter today we saw improving trends there.
And I think they continue to feel those trends.
And in technology I think as we spoke about on the revenue line there they've done an excellent job in their R&amp;D and their sales teams and leading into the -- getting those tools and services into new matters in a way that has helped weather the decline in revenues from the large projects that we discussed.
And so they weathered most of that we think they will continue to have again growth -- more of that growth will show through.
But on the margin line and there continues to be the same effects related to pricing pressure and those types of things.
So that margin can move based on their relative mix of licensing hosting services and where they are in a given quarter for that mix and what happens with pricing pressure.
Strategic Communications is in many respects they're just the same story we've been discussing for some time.
I mean their revenue continues to be challenged as a result of reduced M&amp;A and other kinds of financial transactions.
And the pricing pressure on those kinds of projects continues and so I think we see continued depressed margins in that segment.
I'd state -- I wanted to jump in on Technology a little bit.
We do have a -- an energized commitment to our research and development in that space and we'd expect a higher spend this year than last year in that space.
For those of you who are at legal tech you know there was a lot of discussion about predictive coding and who is really using that in live client engagements and getting paid for that.
We are.
We struggle to find others who are using it.
That does require continuing exploration and development of how to use that tool.
We also think more broadly the governance space is one that we can play in well there and intend to commit some research dollars around that.
So that's a business that we think has tremendous long-term potential and we will continue to invest probably an accelerated rate in the research and development of products there.
Research Division</strong> So that -- I mean margins are not impacted by pricing I mean that's always been sort of the concern there.
Well I think Technology margin is impacted by pricing.
I mean it's not different than most technology businesses.
There's a -- you have a downward price effect but there's been an upward volume effect.
And so how that plays out at any given quarter is the balance of those 2.
Also the mix of -- there are various services that are different in margin -- we have a different margin in processing than we do in hosting than we do in consulting than we do in licensing.
So the mix can change a little but obviously at most technology businesses if you don't innovate and stay ahead of the innovation curve then your margins are in a constant decline because of the price-volume changes.
So-called Moore's Law.
Yes the only thing I would point out there in terms of margins is we from time to time benefit from engagements that are truly urgent in that business.
And those tend to have higher margins when those are going on so a Justice Department inquiry or an antitrust matter that has to be dealt with very quickly.
An increasing percentage of that business however is our longer-term sustained relationship with enterprise clients who are using our core technology and some of our associated services to deal with more routine needs for e-discovery and so forth.
And while those margins as a percentage of revenue can be somewhat lower the persistency of that and the predictability of that makes it a very attractive business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I think I understand Strat Comm that's just down I think because of the general business trend there mid-single digits right? That's going to put the pressure on the margins correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the sort of last one.
I know you don't want to -- or you've stayed away from giving us guidance for '14.
But I guess I'll take a shot at it anyways maybe you can just give us some idea of what your general thoughts are -- and again this is not putting it into anything regarding growth for the year.
I mean is it possible that we -- you expect the aggregate business to grow? And then anything that you have on the margin profile.
I mean most of this seems to be not solely onetime in nature outside of maybe the double rent to the London offices.
So I wonder if we could just get some idea of do we expect revenues to be up or down and do we expect that the margin profiles -- it seems like it's clearly going to be down for the year? I'll give you a little.
So I think exiting the fourth quarter and coming into the first quarter when we look at the markets there's nothing we see in the market that are substantially different meaning Technology and FLC's markets seem to be doing better and we seem to be feeling the benefit of that.
And I think we feel that continuing.
And there's nothing we see now that says we -- that we wouldn't feel that continue for the year we just haven't -- we decided not to go look that far given the reasons that Steve mentioned because of the strategic review.
Strat Comm as we've mentioned at the moment there's nothing we see that really changes the way that business exited the fourth quarter and is entering the first quarter as you look into the third and fourth -- or second through fourth quarters.
We spoke about Corporate Finance/Restructuring I think it's -- it was flattish as we said to down a little we think from fourth to first quarter.
That's probably one of the ones that worries us the most because it as we talked about all the dynamics there that could erode further in North America.
So we're watching that.
And Economic Consulting as we said many times last year I don't think we expect that to grow in the teens rates that it did for last year.
So I mean -- I think we think there's growth opportunity there but it's going to be in the single-digit range probably more like mid-single-digit range as opposed to the mid-teens.
You put all that together right now there's -- I don't think we see anything that would have the growth profile change dramatically as it was in the fourth quarter.
David do you agree? I agree.
Our next question is from Randy Reece at Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you anticipate any other significant round of hits from the need to lock in compensation for key producers in other parts of the business say over the next 12 months? Well I think -- look our business is to attract retain and develop the best people in our industry.
So I wouldn't want to say that there's never a chance that we're going to have to react in a competitive world to retain the best people.
That said I think where you feel effects like this tend to be situations where you have maybe groups of people who -- that have come in in one way or another on their contract expirations those kinds of things are aligned.
I don't -- I think as we look ahead there's nothing we see that's heavily aligned in that same way.
But then again I'm -- there is the chance that we will [ph] have to retain our people.
That is what we have to do to maintain the business.
David? Yes I agree with that.
I don't see a structural issue that's analogous to what we had in the [indiscernible] portion of Economics where we had a number of people we've brought in through an acquisition whose contracts were contemporaneously expiring and were significant I don't see any other group of people like that who are coming to a head where we see significant increases in compensation.
LLC Research Division</strong> We all out here we're out of calibration with what's going on with you given the huge separation between where we were expecting guidance to be and where you guided earnings to.
I still don't have a feel for how much you have reset just the operating cost structure compared with how much of the expense level in the first quarter is unusual in any way.
Well I think one way to think about just the first quarter if the first quarter were to recur for the most part in the same revenue and sort of direct cost fashions as the first but for onetime items I gave you that 15% to 20% range of earnings that would add back into the second quarter.
So that probably gives you some sense of -- if the revenue was the same in the second quarter what could happen.
Another way to look at that might be to look at the guidance we gave for the -- or the implied guidance for the fourth quarter based on our update last -- in our third quarter call last year and how we actually performed in the fourth quarter.
So those I think right now would be sort of relatively consistent earnings levels.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Now for opening remarks and introductions I'll turn the call over to Mollie Hawkes Director of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's first quarter 2014 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
I am joined today by Steven Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer and David Bannister our Chairman of North American.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates for our future financial results.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speaks only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I will turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steven Gunby.
Steve please go ahead.
Thanks Mollie.
Welcome to everyone on the call today.
Before we get into the quarterly earnings discussion let me say I am very much hoping to see each you at our Investor Day on June 16<sup>th</sup> in New York.
I know most of you have supported us for years and have spent a lot of time with us and on us and I am very much looking forward to the opportunity to meet and to be engaged with you at that meeting.
Let me give you a preview of that meeting before getting to the quarter.
At that meeting I am looking forward to us having open conversation.
One that reflects the greatness of this company the terrific people her this company's great positions around the world and one that reflects your aspirations for this company as well as mine and the team we have here.
There will also be a conversation that acknowledges some hard realities.
Realities that you all know that this company has underperformed your expectations and many of our employees' aspirations during the past few years but it's also going to be a conversation about where we can take the company the positive picture ahead.
I'm excited about we could take this company in the future.
To allow the team here a set of professionals who like all great professional have substantial aspirations to meet those aspirations and at the same time to make sure shareholders are rewarded.
I am committed to us having plans that are actionable plans that boldly invest behind places where we have a right to win plans that fix businesses where we need fixing plans that are specific the transparency accountability and with leadership plans that will change this company's trajectory.
Allow it and the people here to reach full potential.
I am looking forward to discussing these plans with you in June and I very much hope to see you there.
The first quarter here in many heralds the numbers the theme that we will be discussing in June.
At one level our adjusted earnings per share of $0.41 shows the power of this company.
The fact that when the stakes are high and someone needs committed world-class experts people turn to FTI.
Major driver of these quarterly results was FLC Forensic Litigation Consulting which had a record quarter.
That quarter was fueled by a number of front page newspaper assignments from around the globe relating to high-stakes client events including Foreign Corrupt Practices Act investigations mortgage-backed securities litigation and other crucial client events.
Similarly our tech business performed strongly driven by an ongoing FCPA financial services investigations and cross-border M&amp;A-related second request activity so the first quarter in many ways heralds power and strength of this company.
I said that first quarter also heralds the majors set of work we have ahead.
Notwithstanding the strong performance of FLC and Tech our adjusted earnings per share dropped substantially from $0.59 to $0.41 which is to say we are in a rate that is a third below our earnings in the prior year quarter.
In contrary let me say something contrary that some of your hopes that drop in performance is not due to a new CEO throwing the kitchen sink its earnings but in fact reflects sobering financial results in a number of our business.
Corporate Finance/Restructuring's downward trend in profitability continued this year into the first quarter.
2014 adjust EBITDA was down 40% from a year ago over 50% from two years ago and we are now down to about a quarter of the profitability of the first quarter in 2009.
Strategic Communications had another down quarter in terms of revenue and modest EBITDA.
Econ consulting the one consistent pillar of profitability growth the past years also had a disappointing start to the year both in terms of revenues and in profitability.
Let me be clear since I stepped in this role in January my enthusiasm had grown the deeper I get into this business the more impressed I am with the capabilities here the talent but maybe most gratifyingly the commitment and enthusiasm that you find when you talk to our people.
The quality of our people shows up in the client engagements and relationships and those engagements and relationships are outstanding.
Probably most important to you and critically important me there is enormous potential here too.
As we will discuss in June I believe we will be able in a relatively short period of time to begin meeting the aspirations that so many of us have for this firm.
At the same time I do want to underscore that 2014 we will see no rapid turnaround in profitability.
As Roger will indicate shortly even though the first quarter was burdened with some one-time cost that will not recur in the remainder of the year we currently expect the second half of the year to be less profitable than in the first not more.
The key assignments that are driving FLC in and Technology are slated to be much reduced in the second half of the year but we substantial opportunity to drive the economic performance of all our segments and regions.
Most of the opportunities will benefit 2015 and 2016 much more than 2014.
In some cases we will require investment in EBITDA in 2014 to drive them.
2014 therefore will be about laying a foundation.
Launching and implementing initiatives now that we believe will result in the market positions and shareholder return that you and I looking for in 2015 2016 and beyond.
A number of you I know have commented the margins have continued to deteriorate for a while and the stock is in the same place that it was a number of years ago.
I guess someone commented in early 2007.
Many of you therefore have had much patients.
I want to say thank you for that and ask you for your continued patience this year as we set a solid unbelievable foundation for you for the future.
I have every confidence that over the next few years we will again begin to reach the very justifiable high expectations that you have for us and important that our employees have for themselves.
I'm excited to embark and I ride with you the ride that will be grounded in transparency and accountability.
I look forward to discussing these plans with you further in June.
With that let me turn the call over to Roger to discuss the quarterly results in more detail.
Thanks Steve.
For the quarter revenues of $425.6 million increased 5% year-over-year compared to $407.2 million in the prior quarter.
2% of the revenues growth was organic with the remaining 3% of growth resulting from acquisitions.
Fully diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.45.
First quarter earnings per share included a remeasurement gain related to the reduction in fair value of estimate future contingent consideration payments for prior acquisitions which increased first quarter earnings per share by $0.04.
Excluding this gain first quarter adjusted earnings per share were $0.41 and adjusted EBITDA was $51.2 million or 12% of revenues.
It is important to note that beginning with this quarter the definitions of our non-GAAP measures have been updated to exclude the impact of changes in the fair value of acquisition related contingent consideration liabilities.
We believe these revised definitions when considered together with our GAAP financial results provide management and investors with a more complete understanding of our operating results including underlying trends.
Prior periods represented here and have been reclassified to reflect this change at all comparative periods [present] and the future will reflect these new definitions as well.
Turning to review of our segments in the first quarter Forensic Litigation Consulting revenues for $121.4 million increased 21% year-over-year.
Our recent acquisition of an insurance industry management consulting provider was the primary contributors to $3 million of the acquired revenues which represented 3% of the year-over-year revenues increased.
During the quarter we realized strong organic growth primarily due to increased demand for global data analytics disputes and insurance practices in North America and our forensic accounting and global risk and investigations in Asia-Pacific.
From an industry perspective our insurance practices in North America and in EMEA benefited from clients who were continuing to face constant transformation resulting from new and emerging risks emanating from technological advances globalization and other business innovations.
Adjusted segment EBIT was $26.5 million or 21.8% of segment revenues compared to $12.8 million or 12.7% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
The increase in adjusted segment EBIT margin was due to improved utilization and an employee leverage in the aforementioned practices.
Within the Forensic Litigation business segment our Health Solutions practice reported a 10% year-over-year increase in revenues but did see a decline in adjusted EBITDA compared to the prior year quarter as a result of the first quarter 2014 having fewer success fees as compared to the first quarter of 2013.
In Technology first quarter revenues of $60.1 million increased 29% year-over-year.
The year-over-year increase in revenues was largely attributable to ongoing FCPA and financial services industry investigations as well as increased merger and acquisitions related second request activity.
During the quarter and in March particular we continued to observe strong demand globally for our end-to-end capabilities particularly from corporation seeking large established global e-discovery advisors.
These large enterprises are looking for more than just software solutions.
They need a provider with the ability to integrate a variety of services in a secure environment across borders and in remote locations.
This is where we play and have the ability to shine and this is how our clients think about engaging in FTI.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $17.3 million or 28.9% of segment revenues compared to $13.7 million or 29.4% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
The decreased in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to the mix of lower margin services and increased investment in business development support.
In Economic Consulting first quarter revenues of $106.9 million declined 7% year-over-year and were largely aligned with the first quarter outlook we provided in February.
The softness in revenues was due to a slow ramp up of employee utilization in January and February following the completion of several large client matters in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Despite the slow start to the year the business improved throughout the quarter and in March in particular.
While our pipeline the first look M&amp;A-related engagements is robust.
We remain concerned about the pace of these matters moving past the first look M&amp;A stage.
Likewise for the segments financial litigation business we are aware that the levels of activity created by the 2008 financial crisis will wane at some point.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $13 million or 12.2% of segment revenues compared to $26.2 million or 22.7% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
Adjusted segment EBITDA margin was reduced by lower utilization of financial economics practice in North America the impact of employment contract extensions of key senior client-service professionals and lower utilization and realization at our international arbitration regulatory and valuation practices in EMEA which was partially offset by higher utilization in our antitrust litigation practice in EMEA.
In Corporate Finance Restructuring our results are largely in line with the first quarter outlook commentary provided in February.
First quarter revenues of $94 million decreased 5% year-over-year as low interest rates and sustained high-yield debt issuance activity contributed to the year-over-year revenues decline.
The acquisition of restructuring business in Australia contributed $4.4 million in acquired revenues or 4% of the revenues increase during the quarter.
Excluding the acquired revenues revenues declined organically by $9.5 million or 10% year-over-year.
Revenues declined organically due to lower demand in our bankruptcy and restructuring practice in North America lower average realized bill rights due to mix of services in our telecom media and technology or TMT practice and lower demand in our EMEA-based restructuring and transaction advisory services practices.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $11 million or 11.7% of segment revenues compared to $19.1 million or 19.3% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
Adjusted segment EBITDA margin was reduced by lower utilization in bankruptcy and restructuring practices in North America increased acquired overhead expenses lower average realized bill rates due to mix of services and our TMT practice and continued investment in our EMEA-based transaction advisory services practice.
In Strategic Communications first quarter revenues of $43.2 million were largely in line with the expectations provided in February as reduced pass-through or reimbursable revenues in North America and EMEA and lower retained income in North America contributed to the 5% year-over-year revenues decline.
The acquisition of a public affairs business contributed $1.8 million in acquired revenues.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $2.7 million or 6.3% of segment revenues compared to $3.6 million or 7.8% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
Adjusted segment EBITDA margin was impacted by higher non-recurring facilities cost related to the transition of our new London office and increased acquired overhead costs which were partially offset by reduced pass-through cost.
From a geographic perspective international revenues accounted for 28% of the quarterly revenues compared to 26% in the prior year quarter.
Asia-Pacific revenues increased 24% year-over-year.
The revenues increase was driven by a 45% year-over-year increase in revenues in our Forensic Litigation Consulting business resulting from a very strong quarter for our forensic accounting and advisory services and GRIP practices Global Risk and Investigation practice or GRIP and our construction environmental services practices in the region as well along with a 30% year-over-year increase in revenues and our corporate financial restructuring business due to acquired revenues.
Despite the year-over-year top line growth in Corporate Financial Restructuring in the region we experienced increasing softness in the restructuring market that we expect to continue in fiscal 2014.
In fact according to Thomson Reuters first quarter Asia-Pacific distressed deal volumes were down 71% compared to the first quarter of 2013.
In Europe Middle East and Africa or EMEA revenues increased 12% year-over-year driven by 59% year-over-year increase in Forensic and Litigation consulting revenues and a doubling of Technology revenues.
The year-over-year increase in FLC revenues was largely driven by our insurance practice where we grew both organically and so our revenue contributions from the recent acquisition of an insurance industry management consulting practice.
In Technology revenues were largely driven by FCPA and LIBOR investigations in the region.
In Latin America revenues increased 8% year-over-year.
The increase in revenues was largely driven by strong performance in our Corporate Finance and Restructuring segment in the region and a 29% year-over-year top line improvement in Brazil where we recently expanded our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segments construction and environmental services practice to match robust demand.
In North America first quarter revenues increased 1% year-over-year.
This increase was largely driven by 18% increase in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment and a 24% increase in revenues in our Technology segment which was offset by continued weakness in our North American bankruptcy and restructuring practice.
Turning to our cash position net cash used by operating activities for the quarter was $110.8 million compared to a usage of $2.3 million in the prior year quarter as a result of funding our normal annual bonus payments and retention payments to key client service professionals during the quarter.
As a reminder in the fourth quarter of 2012 we paid $25 million of our 2013 bonus payments versus following our usual practice of paying those in the first quarter of 2013 which had the effective increasing net cash provided by operating activities in the comparable first quarter of 2013.
We had outstanding short-term borrowings of $20 million in cash and cash equivalents of $77 million at March 31 2014.
In addition during the quarter the company used $15.6 million for acquisition related payments and expanded $4.4 million to settle transactions to repurchase the company's common stock that were made but not settled in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The company did not purchase any common stock during the first quarter of 2014.
As of March 31 2014 the company had $328.6 million in available capacity on this revolving line of credit.
DSOs or days sales outstanding increased nine days from December 31 2013 to 106 days at the end of the quarter.
The increase was partially driven by slowdown in collections falling with seasonal collections spurt at the end of December.
The remainder of the increase resulted from an increase in unbilled accounts receivable given the accelerated revenues experienced in March at the end of the quarter and the cycle time of billing and collections on several large engagements in our economics practice which are subject to certain milestones for billing and collections.
Turning to our second quarter outlook.
As we discussed during our fourth quarter earnings call due to the ongoing strategic review through which Steve is leading the company and the potential for related one-time cost-reduction actions and EBITDA investments resulting from this review we will be providing second-quarter guidance today.
We will provide our full year 2014 guidance at our June 16<sup>th</sup> Investor Day.
Based on current market conditions and the second level driver described during today's call the company estimates that revenues for the second quarter 2014 will be between $430 million and $445 million and that adjusted earnings per share will be between $0.32 per share and $0.42 per share.
Expectations for the second quarter 2014 adjusted earnings per share consider projected shifts in business mix and increased cost as compared to the first quarter 2014 notwithstanding the non-recurrence of certain costs incurred in the first quarter of 2014.
This guidance assumes no acquisitions and no share repurchases.
As discussed previously full year 2014 revenues and adjusted earnings per share guidance will be provided during the company's Investor Day on June 16<sup>th</sup>.
As additional background to our second quarter 2014 guidance Forensic Litigation Consulting and Technology entered the second quarter was solid starts and we expect a good second quarter for both of these businesses.
However we do not expect second-quarter revenues or adjusted segment EBITDA results to be a strong for either of these businesses as was the case in the first quarter of 2014.
In Economic Consulting we are expecting revenues to improve from the first quarter of 2014 to point where they were reflecting mid single-digit percentage increase compared to the second quarter of 2013.
In Corporate Finance Restructuring we expect continued weakness in our core bankruptcy and restructuring practice in North America.
In fact according to Thomson Reuters U.S.
distressed debt deal activity totaled $4.5 billion during the first quarter a 26% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Further there were 22 restructuring transactions announced during the quarter which represented 51% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2013.
In light of the challenging bankruptcy and restructuring backdrop in North America we continued to focus on our go-to-market initiatives on our non-distressed product offerings.
As a result of this focus we currently expect an improvement in revenues compared to the first quarter of 2014 in this segment to a level that represent a flat to mid single-digit percentage increase in revenues when compared to the first quarter of 2014 and a related sequential improvement in adjusted segment EBITDA due to the expected improved realization and a reduction in SG&amp;A.
In Strategic Communications we currently expect second-quarter 2014 revenues and adjusted segment EBITDA to improve compared to the first quarter of 2014 as a result of unanticipated mid single-digit increase in revenues and a sequential reduction in SG&amp;A.
However I want to point out that a significant portion of that revenue increase is related to low-margin pass-through revenues.
Regarding corporate unallocated SG&amp;A expense we anticipate finalizing actions in the second quarter of 2014 to terminate the leases on the company's West Palm Beach office and the corporate airplane.
These actions when completed will result in cash expenditures and a special charge in the second quarter.
While we are not in a position to provide full year guidance at this time I want to reiterate Steve's earlier comment that we currently expect the second half of 2014 to be less profitable than the first half of 2014.
Even though the first quarter included certain costs that will not recur during the remainder of the year key client assignments that are driving Forensic Litigation Consulting and Technology are expected to be reduced in terms of activity and revenues in the second half of 2014 and though we see opportunity improve the economic performance of our business these opportunities required investment in 2014 and they are expected to benefit 2015 and 2016 much more than 2014.
With that I will turn the call back to Steve for his closing remarks.
Thanks Roger.
Let me close briefly so we can get to whatever questions people have for us.
First let me reiterate my invitation to each of you to join us in June both so we can share information plans but also just so I can get chance to meet finally one-on-one.
I am very much looking forward to that.
Second obviously let me say this quarter what we would like it to be and our current outlook for the year is unlikely to delight us or any of us financially.
Having said that I want to underscore my excitement about begin here and my confidence in the future success of this company.
The people I have now around this company are extraordinary.
We have great positions around the world.
This company has the right to win.
We win today in many places and we have the right to win in many many more places.
We have opportunity to leverage those positions our capabilities and the market to meet the high aspirations of our talented people and also the high aspirations that you and our shareholders have for FTI.
I am looking forward to sharing our concrete plans and the disciplines in accountabilities will allow you to have confidence in that journey in June.
With that I guess we are ready for question.
Mollie.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Tobey Sommer of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I wanted to start out with a broad question Steve what kind of economic conditions in trends in the economy do you view as positive for the business as it currently exists.
I asked that question in the context of what you said is with M&amp;A and kind of technology first look and economic stuff related to M&amp;A.
Historically I have understood that to be a driver and activity there seems to be up.
At least in the headlines but yet you express some caution.
Thanks.
Yes.
Tobey.
Nice.
Thanks for the question.
I look forward to seeing you out in June.
Look I think there is a fair amount of different analysis that's been done in the past around that question.
I haven't had a chance to go deep into that and update it.
I'll let Dave or Roger if they think it's useful to comment on the past analysis they had done.
Maybe I could take your question a little bit different.
I think my sense is that this company has the right and the ability to succeed in any market conditions.
Maybe - too strong you know I assume that there are 9/11 then you know world changes but I think many market conditions the companies outperform the markets.
My sense is that history of this company is when we were soaring we were outperforming the market.
Some of the market conditions were favorable to us but we also outperform the markets in which we were participating and I think a lot of the focus that I have had over the last three months is less around identifying when certain market conditions will create a tide for us and saying even if the market conditions don't improve where do we have the opportunity to improve this business and I think there is opportunity there Tobey and so I hope to share some of that with you in June.
Dave do you want to add something? Yes.
Tobey Thanks so much for your note earlier.
We read that we create interest on the M&amp;A as a driver and we fundamentally would agree with that across some of our businesses.
I think just a couple observations.
One is that the data clearly support that the overall M&amp;A environment has improved and improved significantly however that's based on a dollar value and the dollar value is up significantly but the number of transactions really started going up a year or two ago so that's not a dramatic change so number of transactions would translation number of engagements dollar value might translate to size engagements.
Our biggest opportunities are when post when something is announced so if you think of the things we really do the antitrust work is typically done after announcement the second request work is done after announcement.
Communications work will be done after announcement so forth so I think that the harbinger if those trends continue then those should be good drivers for us but the near pressured activity the activity that will proceeded mergers we will do some work on that but it doesn't have the fees and scale associated with it so hopefully that helps you a little bit Tobey.
It does.
Thank you very much.
Then my follow-up and I will get back in the queue after this is from a compensation standpoint the prior quarters report I think we were caught by surprise by the adjustment to the structure in the economic practice and with a couple more months under your belt I wanted to get your sense for whether you thought there were broad changes that would perhaps need to be reflected in other segments or at this point you feel like the economic practices is different structurally than the other businesses.
Thanks.
Let me make sure I understand the question.
I think the question is do I anticipate major changes in the cost structure over the next several quarters.
The answer is no.
We are not signing major new contracts that will fundamentally shift the economics of our business.
If the question is do I think overtime we need to look at our pay structures make sure that we are doing a combination of always paying enough to get the very best people but also making sure we do so in a way that enhances shareholder returns of course that's a subject of examination throughout this year.
Did I answer your question Tobey? You did.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Jason Anderson with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
On the Q2 guidance you referenced I believe some expenses there.
I don't think go back over but it sounds like some of those are non-recurring.
Is that included in the guidance and could you quantify that? No.
It's Roger Carlile.
I guess what I was referring to in our first quarter call we referenced that there were cost in that quarter that don't recur.
The biggest ones are employee benefits related FICA pension those things.
Also equity compensation related to our SMB incentive compensation program where the accounting for that tends to put a greater portion of that in the first quarter as related to the other quarters.
I think we referenced to a $0.15 to $0.20 impact in the first quarter related to those and in fact those costs don't recur in the second quarter.
Notwithstanding the fact that those cost don't recur in the second quarter there are other changes that go on in the second quarter that keep earnings as you see there at the midpoint relatively flat to the first quarter and those include things like business mix shifts in terms of which businesses we expected to better and the margins on those.
Some investments in the business in a variety of areas including some of the things you heard on the call this morning in technology and business development support and those types of things as well as merit increases for our employees around the world.
I am sorry to the that was all of that is being considered and you go from a $0.41 first quarter to a midpoint of the range of $0.37 in the second quarter.
It's Steve.
Just to be clear Roger mentioned two specific actions we plan to take in the second quarter.
Termination of the plan the termination of West Palm Beach office those are not included in the guidance and will be called out as special charges.
Okay.
I think those were the ones I was also referring to but that was great color.
I appreciate it.
Then also on the FLC business you talk about that slowing down in the second half.
I guess maybe you can provide a little more color on that because it seems like there obviously a lot of strength in the first quarter and you referenced still pretty good second quarter.
I don't know if you could maybe help us out there a little more.
Obviously you see in the pipeline there some more extreme falloff there in the second half.
It's Dave.
Let me take a first swing at that and Steve and Roger can jump in.
Recognize that we are comparing the second quarter to the first quarter for FLC which was an all-time record for that business so we are not suggesting that business will be weak or even weaken materially versus norms but rather that first quarter was just so hot with a couple of very significant engagements that were intense in their size and intense in their - that need to get work done very quickly so we are not suggesting that this is going to be poor or weaker.
Just we are comparing it.
Again it's just a tough comp.
This is Roger.
I would just add to that.
We have had a number of questions in the past regarding the utilization and capacity so what you see is that they had that capacity when they had large matters that come in.
They have a lot of revenue.
They have a very high fall-through too in terms of what hits the EBITDA lines.
You saw their margins jump substantially.
I think that Dave is right.
It's not that we are saying that the business is weakening.
It's just that you have got a very strong revenue results in the quarter.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Tim McHugh at William Blair &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
I guess just following up on that last one.
Are there specific reasons I guess in terms of the large cases that helping now that you expect them to end in terms of deadlines or is it just that you are cautious about assuming that it's going to continue and that's why you are kind of talking about the second half being lower.
Hi Tim.
It's Roger.
I think in FLC particularly and maybe in technology as well there are specific matters they are working on in the quarter that are very intense I think they are concerned both about the intensity of that continuing and the deadlines of those and how long they will continue into the future.
Okay.
Then just to understand comments so your comment was overall profitability for the firm then.
I guess just in terms of EPS or EBITDA would be lower in the second half than first half of the year? Correct.
Okay.
Then I guess more on a bigger question Steve you gave some color on I guess how you are trying to turn around restructuring and get ECO while it's a tough time you are still comfortable long-term with what you can do with that business but I guess Strategic Communications I apologize if I missed it but do you have a view yet you can articulate in terms of what plan or changes you need to put in place to start to drive the turnaround in that business? Yes.
Thanks Tim.
Look let me be clear.
I think there is potential in every business that we have.
Now every business we have has a set of sub-businesses with different market positions and so forth what I have had is the opportunity over the less than while to get deep into some of these businesses.
I asked every business to think through where we have a right to win and where there is untapped opportunities in that space we are adjacent to it where we have real credibility in the marketplace and people came back with those ideas and I also talked about where you are underperforming and asked for plans against that.
I have asked that for every business.
I think there is opportunity in every business so that is the foundational work that we have had underway that I am compiling and that we are going to share with you in June and so I look forward to that Tim.
Did I answer your question? I guess you will in June.
I'll reserve seat for you there Tim okay? All right.
Thanks a lot.
That's all for me.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Ato Garrett at Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I just want to get a little more details on the trends within Corporate Finance Restructuring.
You mentioned that the restructuring market within North American had seen continued softness.
Can you speak to that on an international basis particularly within EMEA? Are you seeing some similar trends there? Hi.
This is Dave.
The EMEA market is somewhat different.
One of the things you have to remind yourself of is that we are a relatively small participant in that market.
The big four will continue to dominate that market so while the overall health or vibrancy of the demand in that market is important to us we are small enough that it really comes down to individual engagements and the success and profitability of those.
I think the restructure market is a bit more robust in EMEA.
There is a slightly higher demand level and our business has been somewhat stronger there but it's a pretty small practice there.
Okay.
Great.
Then also looking at the Technology segment I know you had a couple of large engagements that had been cycling ebb and winding down over the last few quarters.
Have you completely cycled both of those at this point? I think we have referring two engagements for some period of time.
Actually one of those but two particular ones that we are referring to has been gone for some time.
The second of that is they are continuing at a much lower pace.
It came off a great deal from where it was last year.
We expect it to be fully wrapped up probably in the middle of this year.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Randy Reece at Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I am trying to get a feel for what you are saying about your end markets as opposed to your company-specific execution.
I was wondering if you might summarize that for me at least in analyst [palatable].
Randy that could be a very long answer is there a way to break that down? Like these are some particular segments or regional market you would like us to focus on? If you aggregate your segments as a whole do you believe that in each case demand is stagnant improving declining or unclear.
Okay.
Let me try to do it briefly and then Dave or Steve can add in as they see fit.
I think if you start with corporate finance restructuring I think we have been fairly consistent in the past and today that we see the core particularly North America bankruptcy and restructuring market is weak and the demand there is weak so we can see that end market is weak and continues to be so.
I think Dave just mentioned that the markets may have some more strength in EMEA and we referenced more strength in Latin America.
As David mentioned relative to our overall firm those are smaller portions of the business of the corporate finance restructuring segment.
Turning to Forensic and Litigation Consulting I think you have sort two effects there.
One we have those particular matters that we wanted.
It's our execution that there is feeling strong results but I think the demand in the market is generally stronger than it has been a year ago.
I think we started seeing improvement in those markets mid-last year and that has continued so I think those end markets have better demand.
I am not sure that we'll get there roiling or hot markets but you see stronger demand there.
I think it's the same in the Technology segment.
I think simply that a lot of those same issues that that they would work on with FLC or those kinds of matters investigations and major litigations.
I think there's some more strength in that so I think they have that.
End markets straight has improved and they have particular execution on a number of key matters.
With respect to Economic Consulting notwithstanding that business got off to a slower start this year and notwithstanding our commentary that we have some concerns about the number of matters in our first look M&amp;A pipeline and how those will turn into M&amp;A transactions and the crisis 2008 crisis what do we have going on and the lifespan of that will remain.
I think generally we see the end markets for that business as consistent as it has been over the last several quarters.
I think there's good end markets there again we obviously there were stronger but I think good end markets.
With respect to Strategic Communications it's as Steve mentioned I think it's a more mixed story.
I think the things that we have been strongest in in the past I think the market has been weak and continues to be weak.
The business has been transitioning organically and some acquired into other areas of the market I think have better strength such as public affairs and digital marketing and some of those kinds of things but some of the core services that we have offered for a long time I think those markets have been weak and continue to be so.
Maybe to add to the discussion that was earlier regarding M&amp;A and the question that Tobey had and how that impacts the businesses.
I think one thing we have discovered over time is notwithstanding how M&amp;A and maybe IPO activity fueled strong results of Strategic Communications in the past it's not doing so anywhere near those levels at the present and that's I think primarily because people aren't spending on the communications budgets in those matters at the moment at the same way they were before possible because there are not as many contested deals or possibly because people they are just happy to do transactions again.
I think that then has had a detrimental and adverse effect on the pricing of those services in those matters so I don't think gives sort of an overview of the end markets versus the company-specific execution.
David do you want to add anything? I think having seen a number of the other companies I don't want to get into the comps on the call particularly but seeing other companies reported over the last week or so we would be seeing the same trends they were so you have seen comments by the technology space.
Our demand has been consistent with that.
You have seen comments around the economics space.
Our demand has been consistent with that.
Roger did mention healthcare and while we have some because again it's a relatively small business for us we had some ups and downs as it relates to individual engagement timing we would concur that that continues to be a healthy market.
I couldn't have asked for a better answer.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joseph Foresi at Janney Montgomery Scott.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
You mentioned some of the cost-cutting with the corporate plane in the West Palm Beach office.
Is there a philosophical change going on as far as how you view cost and can we expect more of that taking place going forward? Joseph nice to meet you.
It's Steve.
Look I don't want to comment on a philosophical change because of course I wasn't there right? You can figure out whether there was a change.
Look I think I'll just tell you simple - year we are looking how do we drive this business so that we need our employees' aspirations also our shareholders' aspirations and we are looking - I am going to be willing to invest EBITDA where that supports that thing but we also have to look hard at - think we are spending money that don't support those aspirations and then management team looked at look it and looked at the plane in West Palm and decided that those were not critical investments to support where we need to take the company going forward and so we moved on that and that mental map is one that we will take into the business going forward so does that help? Yes.
I am sure your shareholders are pleased as well.
On the restructuring side of the business can we talk just a little bit about what actions you may take or may not take if this continues for another year or so given sort of where we where or do you view it as a bottom and you think that maybe there is reason to keep resources or more resources there? It's Dave.
Let me start off with that and then I will let others jump in.
As everyone on the call recognizes FTI has long been identified as the leader in the restructuring market.
We have a fabulous practice there fabulous group of practitioners and continue to have extremely high market share and delighted clients when they are needed.
It is also clear that we are operating in an environment much like 2007 where we had covenant-light loans we had tremendous access to capital we continue to - although slowing a bit we just read this morning slowing a bit continue to buy bonds and capital in the market.
It's unlikely that we could predict a rapid turnaround I in that.
I would suggest that over the course of the last 30 to 40 years when these things turn they are rarely predicted and they turned quickly so we look at 2004 2008 or 2000 when we had this quick turns the result of either or back in - when we had the invasion of Kuwait or we had exposed in a dot com bubble or we had great financial crisis.
Those things happened quickly and dramatically so I don't think we believe philosophically that there will never be a robust restructuring market again but we are guiding ourselves accordingly.
We have certainly taken some difficult headcount moves in that practice we are realigning some of the marketing emphasis around call it earlier stage unhealthy but not distressed companies to try and help work with people as they moved through their portfolios and we will continue to look hard at it.
We also have some work as Steve mentioned work going on in terms of aligning compensation structures there more appropriately with demand levels and we have some work to do on that that we will talk about in June but we think that there is there has been in the past and there will be in the future a role for FTI in the restructuring business.
We it's a flagship business for us.
We are not going to give up that very important positioning of the business but demand really is weak now.
Okay.
I just wanted to squeeze one last one in here.
Can we get some color on what the attrition rates look like across the managing director group? I apologize.
I don't have those numbers in front of me at the moment but they haven't changed dramatically and our attrition at SMB are all senior level has been very good.
The retention rate the attrition rate has been very low and remains that currently.
In the MDs next year down.
As it would be in any order as you move down you have a bit higher attrition but again I think our retention of our key people has been very good.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Gold of Sidoti.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups a lot of headwinds I am still not clear on the bridge there from first quarter to second quarter given the higher revenue in the $0.15 to $0.20 headwind so I was curious that either you can give a little color if there is something in the first quarter that was just exceptionally profitable for you that sort of led to that caught you guys by surprise versus say the guidance or what matter.
How do we get down earnings in the second quarter? Sure.
Hi David.
It's Roger.
I mean I think the premise of your question answers the question.
FLC particularly in March was very very strong.
As I mentioned because they had the capacity they didn't have to add any cost.
You had a very high fall through in terms of profitability on that additional revenue and you can just see that when you look at that their EBITDA margins.
I don't know the last time they have had EBITDA margins at that level.
As we mentioned in the call we have concerns about some of those projects continuing into the second quarter and the second half of the year so that's why obviously technology was strong as well.
Working on in some cases some of those same matters so we have the same concerns there a bit so I think that gets tied up in the in the mix shift issues I spoke about because we are no expecting those businesses to be as strong and have that kind of fall through particularly with FLC to the EBITDA line so I don't know if that answers the core of your question but those businesses were strong.
Got you.
Okay.
It does.
Then second I remember there was some commentary maybe around technology side about increased in that market business marketing.
Curious if there were other areas that you can talk about where you have made changes to-date that you can sort of call out whether it would be the way you are selling to that matter I think someone asked earlier compensation.
Yes.
I think that's the primary one to call out at the moment.
I mean there are investments that are being made as a part of our strategic review to assess our positions and do something.
Those things I don't think that the core of that as Steve mentioned in his comments.
The core of that doesn't really kick in until the latter half of the year but there are number of smaller investments but I think Technology's business development support is the primary one.
David? David but we are going through a very rigorous process.
We have had three-day sessions of what we call our executive committee are really stripping apart different businesses and activities and are looking hard at any number of projects that are underway underneath that in a way of looking where we opportunities to grow where we have the opportunities to rationalize costs and so forth and so on.
Those are all very much in process now so I would I would beg of you some patience until June to where we are going to speak wholesomely about this.
I think if you try and pick out individual things and say we are doing this in R&amp;D and Tech we are doing that and staffing and build the tower something like that really would be incomplete and unhelpful until we have - sort of pull it all together in June.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for the questions and for the engagement.
I really appreciate it.
I do really hope I can see you all in June and looking forward to sharing what we know at that point and also going forward just engaging with you individually and as a group.
I think we can take this company quite a bit further and I am excited to be on that journey and I am excited to be connecting with you throughout that journey.
Thanks very much for your time today and look forward to seeing you in June.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the FTI Consulting Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Mollie Hawkes Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's second quarter 2014 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results and other matters.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings filed with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
Before I turn the call over to management as I reminder it is important to note that with the first quarter of 2014 the definitions of our non-GAAP measures have been updated to exclude remeasurements of acquisition-related contingent considerations.
We believe these non-GAAP measures when considered together with our GAAP financial results provide management and investors with a more complete understanding of our operating results including underlying trends by excluding the fact of remeasurement of acquisition-related contingent considerations special charges and goodwill impairment charges.
Prior periods presented in our earnings release and Form 10-Q with the second quarter have been reclassified to reflect this definitional change.
And all comparative periods going forward will reflect this change as well.
With these formalities out of the way I am joined today by Steven Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Roger Carlile our Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steven Gunby.
Steven please go ahead.
Thank you Mollie.
And let me welcome everyone to today's call.
I think I had the chance to meet most of you if not all of you at the Investor Day a few you weeks ago.
And I enjoyed that a great deal and I look forward to spending more time with you going forward.
For those of you I haven't had a chance to meet I look forward to changing that as soon as we can.
Today with your permission I'd like to avoid spending much time personally on the financials.
The financials -- the second quarter results are very much in line with what we talked about a few weeks ago.
We have continued comfort with the guidance we gave you for the full year.
So I think what I'd like to do is to leave the financial review and the detailed financial questions to Roger in the Q&amp;A and with your permission spend a few minutes upfront to talk about the people announcements we made this morning.
At Investor Day a number of you expressed some enthusiasm for the initiatives we were contemplating at that time but a couple of you raised questions that asked whether we feel like we have all the resources we need to pull it off.
I think I said to a couple of you "Look you are in professional services firms as well you never have all the resources you need to pull off the sorts of changes you want to make." But I think with the announcements today we have made a terrific start on that and a terrific addition to the team that will really be helpful.
So with that let me introduce several people the 3 people we announced this morning.
David Johnson is one who maybe some of you on this call know.
I mean he's been a CFO at a number of prominent companies over the years.
He began his career in investment banking.
He spent 12 years at Merrill Lynch.
He then left Merrill Lynch to become CFO at the Cendant Corporation where he was named by CFO Magazine as one of the leading U.S.
CFOs under the age of 40.
I think he is still a terrific CFO.
I don't think David is still under 40 but he's still a terrific CFO.
Then for 7 years he served as the CFO of The Hartford Financial Services Group which I think you know is a publicly traded Fortune 100 company.
And there he was also awarded a number of accolades including being named by Institutional Investor as one of the top CFOs in America for 5 consecutive years.
Then David took on more of a public service role becoming the CFO of Fannie Mae in 2008 shortly after Fannie Mae was placed into government conservatorship a role he played for a number of years.
Most recently he's been the CFO of Athene Holding company which is an insurance holding company focusing on issuing or reinsuring fixed and equity-indexed annuities which he is in that role and will remain in that role until he joins FTI next month.
More than his credentials those of you who know David know that he is a very smart guy a strategic guy and an analytical guy and a collaborative individual.
And I am thrilled to have him as part of the team.
And I hope that all of you will enjoy working with him going forward as much as I am looking forward to.
The second person I'd like to talk about is Holly Paul who will join us to become the company's next Chief Human Resources Officer.
We have had people in that role before but I think we've not had anybody fully dedicated to that role since 2010.
And I think for a people company like ourselves it's critical to have somebody focused on the people full-time.
And so I'm excited not only to have someone in that position full-time again but in particular to have Holly in that role.
She is a terrific individual.
She has drive she has energy she's intelligent.
But she also has a lot of good experience.
She started her career at PwC initially on the audit side and then the consulting side before being lured into taking an HR track.
She grew to become one of the senior-most people responsible for talent acquisition both domestically and globally.
And then in 2013 she was lured away to become the Chief Human Resources Officer at Vocus which for those of you who don't know it is a publicly held marketing and public relations software company.
There she work directly with the CEO and the management team to develop a whole set of people initiatives and strategies including recruitment compensation and talent management.
So I am excited to have Holly join us as well.
And she'll be joining us at around the same date as David in the end of August.
Before I go on to the other folks let me use this point as a moment to say a few words of thank you to Roger.
And I do that because Roger has played each of those 2 roles and a number of other roles in the C-suite over the years.
Most of you know him as the CFO but he has also been the Chief Administrative Officer the Chief HR Officer.
And Roger I don't know how many other roles you've played.
But no matter what role Roger played he has been a key person of stability here at FTI and an ambassador of FTI in the C-suite.
At the beginning of the year Roger approached me and said he wanted to get involved in a more operationally-oriented role that he enjoyed the role as Chief HR Officer and the Chief Administrative Officer and enjoyed working with you all as CFO but that his heart is in client service and in operating.
And he asked me to start a CFO search as soon as I could.
I tried to ignore your request Roger for a while.
But then he came back to me and said "It's time to start the CFO search." So he and I just did that.
Roger I was very happy was very involved in interviewing all the candidates for both the CFO and HR roles.
So I want to thank Roger for his help with the selection.
But more fundamentally thank you Roger for the important roles you've played in the C-suite over the many years and for your commitment to helping Dave and Holly transition into their new roles.
Roger will remain in his current role through August 24 and will remain an EVP of the company.
And Roger and I continue to explore whether there's an operating role within the company that fulfills Roger's aspirations.
The last person I wanted to mention as a new addition to our team is Paul Linton who will be joining us as our Chief Strategy and Transformation Officer.
I know Paul well from his and my time at The Boston Consulting Group.
Paul began his career in a very different role developing microprocessors for personal computers and designing infrastructure systems as an electrical engineer with Motorola.
When he tells me the details of that I still don't understand what he says.
But after earning his M.B.A.
he joined BCG and rose to become a partner and has been with the company for 14 years.
Paul at BCG helped companies develop strategies and implement strategies but he was also a key member of BCG's transformation team which typically works with the new CEOs to help companies create and drive major change agendas successfully.
I worked with Paul closely a number of times at BCG.
But when I was working with him or when I was not working with him I always observed that he is not only a change agent but a terrific tenacious guy who gets stuff done and a terrifically collaborative guy who knows how to work with organizations and other people to get stuff done.
And I believe his skill set with those mental maps that orientation and those capabilities will be a terrific add to our team.
Finally let me talk about Adam Bendell who's not a new addition to our team.
But Adam as some of you know has been serving as our SVP of Strategic Development over the last while.
I'm pleased to say that Adam is going to move into a new role as Chief Innovation Officer.
In that role he's going to be focused on many of the things that he discussed with each of you at the Investor Day commercialization of new products and services adjacent to our existing businesses mining our existing businesses for core ideas that can be repurposed into new businesses.
Adam is extremely well skilled to fill that role.
He's also excited about it as I am.
So I'm confident that that will be a great place for Adam to contribute to our company.
Those are the people announcements I wanted to make.
It took a little bit time going through -- away from going through the numbers.
And I'll turn to that Roger in a second.
But I think given the importance of not just coming up with ideas for change but getting them done I thought it was important to take some time on that.
Let me conclude with a couple of more general remarks.
We talked at Investor Day about the tremendous capabilities that this company has and the tremendous future that we see this company having.
The issue is not the potential of the company.
The issue is actually making it come to life making it come to fruition.
And we described many of those initiatives that we're driving.
We have great people to drive those initiatives but the addition of these 3 people to me and the movement of Adam into the new role is a terrific step forward in terms of us not just having ideas on a piece of paper but making sure they come to life and support the company in its next generation of growth focused on organic growth and enhancing the capabilities that we see critical to building this business going forward.
So with that let me say welcome aboard David Holly and Paul and turn the call over to Roger to give you more texture on the quarter.
All right.
Thanks Steve.
Before I turn to the quarterly results I would like to take a moment to share as well what an honor and a privilege it has been to lead FTI Consulting's finance human resources and infrastructure teams over these last several years.
I also want to express what a pleasure it's been to work with the leadership team at FTI Consulting my colleagues at the firm and those of you joining us on today's call.
We hired David Johnson after an extensive search spanning several months.
During this time I worked closely with Steve and members of our executive committee to identify candidates who we believe were the best fit for FTI Consulting.
And I can tell you that I believe David is the right CFO to take this company to the next stage of growth.
In fact I'm excited not only about David joining us but also Holly and Paul in what I believe is a meaningful step forward in the company's evolution.
With that let me take you through the quarter in more detail.
During the quarter we realized organic revenue growth of 9% which was driven by year-over-year revenue growth across all of our business segments.
As expected the major drivers of our quarterly results were our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Technology businesses.
In addition the second quarter results in our Economic Consulting business demonstrated a rebound from a slow start to the year in this business with revenues increasing 10% sequentially as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
For the quarter revenues increased 10% to $454.3 million compared to $414.6 million in the prior year.
Fully diluted earnings per share or EPS was $0.42 compared to $0.58 in the prior year quarter.
EPS for the quarter included a special charge of $9.4 million related to the closure of the company's West Palm Beach office and the termination of the corporate plane lease as we discussed in our first quarter call which reduced EPS by $0.14.
And as a result our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.55.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $59.9 million or 13.2% of revenues compared to $66 million or 15.9% of revenues in the prior year quarter.
Turning to a review of our segments.
In the second quarter Forensic and Litigation Consulting revenues increased 13% to $119.1 million in the quarter compared to $105.1 million in the prior year quarter.
Revenues increased organically by 10% due to increased demand related primarily to disputes and investigations in the segment's North America and Asia-Pacific regions.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $22.3 million or 18.7% of segment revenues compared to $18.8 million or 17.9% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
The increase in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to strong utilization and employee leverage in the aforementioned practices which was partially offset by higher performance-based compensation costs as well as lower success fees and lower utilization as a result of increased hiring in our health solutions practice.
Within the Forensic and Litigation Consulting business segment our health solutions practice revenues declined 5% year-over-year as clients delayed projects while assessing their needs as a result of further changes in their marketplace.
Adjusted EBITDA in this practice was also challenged compared to the prior year as a result of reduced success fees as compared to the second quarter of 2013 and lower utilization as a result of increased hiring to support anticipated growth in this practice.
During the quarter the segment continued to make headway on the strategic initiatives we outlined during our Investor Day.
For example in our new cyber security offering we now have 4 senior leaders with deep expertise who are fully dedicated to this practice.
The team is up and running and the market has been very receptive to the growing need of Directors General Counsels and Chief Information Officers to ensure they are abreast of the cyber security risks.
Similarly we continue to invest in our construction solutions practice which showed strength during the quarter reporting double-digit revenue increases in Asia and North America.
In our Technology segment revenues increased 19% to $60.7 million compared to $51.2 million in the prior year quarter.
The increase in revenues was primarily due to increased demand related to large-scale complex global investigations.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $15.1 million or 24.9% of segment revenues compared to $16.9 million or 33% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to an increase in the mix of lower margin services and increased investment in business development activities.
As we discussed in our Investor Day our investments in this business are proactively focused on corporate clients as we pivot towards a scale play due to continuing price erosion in the market.
These investments which we will make predominantly in the second half of 2014 as compared to the first half of 2014 are in our products and business development capabilities and are rooted in our mission to increase scale.
In Economic Consulting revenues increased 6% to $117.2 million in the quarter compared to $111 million in the prior year quarter.
The increase in revenues was largely due to higher demand in our EMEA-based antitrust litigation practice and higher demand and realization in our EMEA-based international arbitration regulatory and valuation practices.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $18 million or 15.4% of segment revenues compared to $20.8 million or 18.7% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
Decline in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due largely to increased compensation expenses related to the previously discussed extension of employment contracts entered into late last year with key senior client service professionals and lower utilization of our financial economics practice in North America.
Following a slow start to the year revenues and adjusted EBITDA in this segment increased 10% and 38% respectively compared to the first quarter of 2014.
The increase in the segment's M&amp;A activity during the quarter indicates that we are beginning to convert our sustained strong volumes of early-stage first-look work into more significant M&amp;A projects.
As we discussed at our Investor Day international arbitration is an area where we believe we have the right to win and an area in which we will continue to invest.
On a sequential basis our international arbitration services has experienced double-digit revenue increases.
In Corporate Finance and Restructuring revenues increased 8% to $104 million in the quarter compared to $96.7 million in the prior year quarter.
The increase in revenues was driven by higher demand for our North American non-distressed service offerings which was partially offset by continued softness in global bankruptcy engagements.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $19.1 million or 18.4% of segment revenues compared to $17.8 million or 18.5% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
At our Investor Day we discussed our intent to invest in organic growth of our non-distressed businesses and services by serving companies seeking our unique growth and efficiency improvement offerings from our Office of the CFO offering to our services for industries facing disruptive change.
We see opportunity to expand our market share in these areas.
During the quarter our non-distressed revenues more than doubled as compared to the non-distressed revenue levels in the second quarter of 2013.
As you can see our second quarter results reflect our results -- our efforts to invest in these non-distressed services which can help us achieve growth despite a weak market environment for bankruptcy and restructuring services.
In our North American bankruptcy and restructuring practice the demand environment remains soft at the moment and continues to weaken globally.
In EMEA we discussed at our Investor Day that we anticipated the corporate restructuring market was going to slow down.
And that was why we were investing in our transaction advisory services and tax groups in this region.
These initiatives are on track and we will continue to invest in those businesses.
In Strategic Communications revenues increased 5% to $53.3 million in the quarter compared to $50.6 million in the prior year quarter.
The favorable impacts of foreign currency translation contributed to an increase of approximately 3% with the remaining growth resulting from increases in a number of retainer-based relationships in our EMEA business.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $5.8 million or 10.9% of segment revenues compared to $5.2 million or 10.3% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
The increase in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to higher margins on pass-through revenues and the favorable impacts of foreign currency translation.
As we mentioned at the Investor Day we have been actively rotating this business so that we are less dependent on financial transaction-oriented communications.
As a part of this rotation we have aligned and upgraded our talent with a focus on businesses such as our public affairs crisis and litigation communications shareholder activism counsel and change communications offerings.
The skills and expertise of these new professionals are better aligned with our strategic initiatives to improve EBITDA.
From a geographic perspective international revenues accounted for 29% of revenues in the quarter compared to 27% of revenues in the prior year quarter.
In EMEA revenues increased 19% year-over-year driven by a 28% increase in Economic Consulting revenues; a 50% increase in Forensic and Litigation Consulting revenues which includes the acquired revenues of the insurance-oriented acquisition we announced in the fourth quarter of 2013; and a 14% increase in Strategic Communications.
Asia-Pacific revenues increased 4% year-over-year.
The revenues increase was driven by a 38% increase in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting business resulting from a very strong quarter for our forensic accounting and advisory services and our construction solutions practices in that region.
A 24% increase in revenues in Hong Kong more than offset a 14% decline in revenues in Australia which was largely driven by weaker demand for our restructuring services there.
In Latin America revenues increased 22% year-over-year.
The increase in revenues was largely due to a near doubling of revenues in our Corporate Finance and Restructuring segment.
In North America second quarter revenues increased 8% year-over-year.
The increase was largely driven by a 22% increase in revenues in our Technology segment related to increased demand from large-scale complex investigations a 10% increase in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring revenues resulting from higher demand for our non-distressed services and an 8% increase in Forensic and Litigation Consulting revenues resulting from increased demand related primarily to disputes and investigations.
Turning to our cash position.
Cash and cash equivalents were $94.4 million at June 30 2014.
Our net cash provided by operating activities for the quarter was $33.7 million compared to $21.7 million in the prior year quarter.
The increase was primarily a result of lower funding of employee notes receivable and higher revenue-driven cash collections which was offset by an increase in compensation payments and the lease payment related to the termination of our plane lease.
Our net accounts receivable balance increased by $112 million from December 31 2013 driven by the increase in our revenues and was also impacted by the increase of our days sales outstanding or DSO which increased 11 days from December 31 2013 to 108 days at the end of June 2014.
The 108 days also represents a 2-day increase from the March 31 2014 quarter end.
The majority of the increase the 11-day increase is driven by our receivables related to our Asia-Pacific liquidation business which has extended cash collection cycles that generally range between 18 and 24 months or longer due to the regulatory nature of the process.
In addition we have agreed to extend payment cycles for certain large-scale engagements.
In summary as Steve indicated earlier our second quarter results are in line with the expectations and guidance we provided at our Investor Day.
We continue to be confident in our full year guidance at this time.
And we continue to invest in the businesses as we discussed at our Investor Day.
And with that we'll open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Kevin McVeigh from Macquarie.
One quick question just into the numbers on the West Palm Beach and corporate jet is that already factored into the longer-term cost synergies? Or is that something that would be incremental? And how is that set up in terms of savings in the back half of the year? And is that already in the guidance? Kevin it's Roger.
Yes the savings that we will achieve from the ending of those 2 leases was known at the time we gave the guidance at our Investor Day.
So that savings is built in already to the guidance we had for this year.
Okay.
And just Roger can you remind us what those savings were just so we have a sense? For the remainder of the year it's roughly $2.5 million.
Great.
And then I wanted to congratulate all you folks with the moves.
And any time we see this -- always like to get a sense from David and Holly kind of what drew you to the FTI opportunity.
And I know it's obviously early days you haven't even started.
But as you think about the organization just what drew you to it I think more importantly than anything? So Kevin this is Steve.
I would do my best to imitate David and Holly's voice.
But I think by the time I got to Holly you would figure out that neither them are actually here.
So they don't actually start work until August 25 so we'll try to give you access to them.
And rather than me make up the answer that they like my suits or whatever it is that -- let them answer your question directly if that's okay with you.
Awesome.
And then real quick and I'll get back in the queue.
It seems like you saw overall just a nice uptick in bill rates.
Was that just mix or better pricing with current clients just any thoughts around that? I think -- I don't think there's any strong differences in the market.
I will say that and I've said this a number of times before as the demand environment improves for our services whether it's just us individually or the market generally our professionals are less required by their clients and maybe less likely to agree with their clients to discount their rates.
So I think what you see there is more as our businesses are improving on the demand side some of that discounting is sort of dissipating.
And we'll go next to Tim McHugh from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So I guess a few questions.
One the strength in I guess the non-distressed piece I guess doubling year-over-year is a pretty big growth rate.
So are there large projects in there? How sustainable is that I guess as we think forward? And can you remind us I guess the split within the Corporate Finance and Restructuring between kind of distressed and non-distressed type of work? Yes.
Look some of the doubling is -- and I'll let Roger answer in more detail.
Some of the doubling is off of a smaller base than we would've liked to have had a year ago.
But as we talked about at Investor Day this is a thrust going forward.
And I think we continue to grow that business going forward.
In terms of the specific questions do you have a sense of that? Yes.
Well I think we've said in the past that it's roughly a 65-35 split between restructuring work and what we've termed as non-distressed work.
I will say it may be a little funnier for me than for Steve but Steve notes that what we call non-distressed work in the real word is distressed work.
We're helping companies that aren't bankrupt but need help in maybe a more immediate sense than others or they're dealing with issues spinouts and carve-outs and things like that.
And there are a few matters in there that are of large size as there always is and frankly in all of our services.
And we're hoping really to build off of those the knowledge of those and the success stories of -- marketing program that we spoke about in our Investor Day is really to help drive the growth in that business.
But I think it's based on Tim really just a focused effort by our practitioners in that business to grow notwithstanding the difficult market for restructuring services.
Research Division</strong> And am I -- would it be misleading though to take -- I mean if I do a 65-35 split if I'm assuming that 35% portion doubled it obviously implies a pretty sharp downcrease still on that 65%.
Or is it -- I guess is it really an easy comparison I guess partly? It's not quite that simple because we're talking I think more about a doubling in the Americas.
And we do have -- that split I'm giving you is a global split.
So it's not quite that simple.
Most of that non-distressed improvement is coming in North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you've talked about a kind of Office of the CFO.
You've talked about transaction support-type of work.
I mean is it in a particular area of that non-distressed? Those 2 in particular you mentioned the Office of the CFO which is involved in helping CFOs generally and also in helping with transactions and carve-outs and those kinds of things it's also in general areas such as our telecom media and technology industry practice.
So I think it's generally in those areas that we're seeing the most improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the next thing I just -- you've talked about in the second half of the year you expected some big cases.
I think it was both in e-discovery and forensic rolling off and that's probably why you expect a lower run rate in the second half of the year.
What are you seeing at this point? Do you have -- have you seen those roll off? Or I guess -- or is that still something you're just being cautious about happening at some point? Well I think the matters we were most focused out of that commentary are still -- persist today and we're working on those.
I think we still have the same concerns we had on June 17 when we gave the guidance that there is some risk that those won't persist at that full level through the second half of the year.
So I think we're trying to be smart about how we think about that in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you -- I guess you've also talked to I think for the second half a pickup in investment spending to drive kind of your multiyear plan here.
I don't recall if you did this at the Investor Day.
But can you quantify I guess how much of a drag or I guess how much spending that is in the second half of this year? I think -- good try Tim.
You thought I'd forget that we didn't quantify that.
We did not quantify it specifically and won't do so now.
But I think between -- if you look at the sort of the total guidance versus the first half of the year and you take that difference that difference is primarily related to 2 things.
It's related to these concerns we mentioned about these large projects and whether they would be at same levels in the second half of the year and our investment spend.
So it's really those the 2 primary drivers.
And let me maybe add one point to this.
I think the way to think about the investment spend is if we had gotten ourselves fully organized we would would've had that for the entire year and we will have that going forward.
I don't envision this investment spend as sort of a one-time spend Tim.
I mean this is what you do in a professional services business if you are trying to grow organically which we are putting emphasis on.
It means you don't just hire reactively you hire proactively.
You figure out whether you need to hire sales and marketing people in a business in order to get scale.
And you invest aggressively in R&amp;D even if the quarter is tight.
And I think that is something that we as a management team have committed to going forward.
I think the back end-loaded is just because some of the initiatives have taken a while to get organized to actually fund them.
And you shouldn't view that as a one-time thing.
I think you should build an expectation of ongoing investment into the models for the future because certainly that's our intention to continue to do that.
I hope that's helpful Tim.
And we'll go next to Randy Reece from Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> To go back to that investment concept there are 2 things going on that I can see you're putting in some additional management infrastructure and some supporting costs that are new step-ups in cost levels.
And then there is this shift towards more internal hiring and reliance on organic growth as opposed to practice acquisition to add staff.
And what I'm wondering is when is the point where the additions of the supporting infrastructure are in and we're just looking at the additional incremental cost of basing your growth more on internal hiring? Yes.
Look I think we don't anticipate a huge -- if I understand the question correctly I don't think we are going to be adding a ton more to the corporate center over the next while.
It doesn't mean there aren't some costs that we will incur at the center.
We're going to have our first-ever all-SMD meeting later this year which we'll fund out of the corporate center which is an investment in connectivity and helping us bridge across the segments which is something that is important for the company and that sort of thing.
But I would say that if you're asking is there going to be a trend that's going to continue up into next year I wouldn't -- I don't currently anticipate that.
We are -- I think we have the central initiatives all in mind or at least the ones we know about now.
The business-related initiatives will change every year.
Every business will have different -- we have a process in place to sort of say "Okay so where can we invest now in selling capability in marketing in headcount in acquisition of talent in a way that helps us build our business to the position that we think we have?" And that's an ongoing strategic inquiry which gets updated every quarter.
So we have investment levels in mind.
We prioritize against that.
But the specifics around that will be modified over time.
Does that help Randy? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
As you've been going over the structure of the company do you have any further thoughts about any need to integrate or standardize like back-end support functions for example or more maybe consolidation of accounting functions just across all of the different acquired businesses that you have? Yes.
Let me maybe answer that in a more general way.
So if you think back to the Investor Day I think there's 2 different core thrusts besides addition of capability.
I mean one of them is stuck within the current organizational structures.
Where do we have the right to win in our current segments and regions? And how do we invest sufficiently in that? The second one is a set of crosscutting initiatives really leveraging this enterprise beyond the individual segments.
And within that are a variety of different things client service ideas that cut across segments HR ideas that cut across segments but also obviously costs ideas that cut across segments and effectiveness ideas that cut across segments.
And so we clearly have questions and thoughts about how do we most effectively support the businesses around the world.
And that's part of the initiative discussion underway.
Did I answer your question Randy? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes very much so.
And we'll go next to Jerry Herman from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Steve and Roger I just wanted to ask you a little bit more about the second half of the year.
You guys have been pretty clear about your guidance there and that investment spending will be a factor in that.
But if the business happens to perform better in the second half of the year would you be inclined to step up the investment spend as the year progresses? Look I think we need to do the right thing by the business.
I think we have responsibility to shareholders we also need to do the right things by the business.
I wouldn't automatically step up investment spend just because that's the investment numbers.
Just like I wouldn't automatically cut investment spend if something went awry in a business for a quarter.
I mean that's not consistent with the concept of investment.
Obviously if we have way above and we find a whole lot of other good investments we'll consider that in turn.
But it's not -- there's no automatic migration of that.
To the contrary I think we're thinking about investment as what we need to do to build a sustainable powerful business over the medium term.
And where we have ideas for that we'll invest and we won't be affected by the swings of the quarter.
Did I answer your question Jerry? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And just from a process perspective can you help us understand what that process of investment spending looks like in other words your return on investment calculation? Or what metrics and framework do you use to commit money? Yes look -- and that's also in refinement.
But I think the best way to understand that process is -- and if you remember from Investor Day one of the things we did was we said "Let's start to think about it." What we're about is building businesses that are reflective of the powerful group of people we have the powerful position the needs in the marketplace and that you as shareholders but also employees will reward us building a much more powerful institution over the next while versus this month doing better or worse than planned.
So with that in mind the management team and I sat down and we said "All right let's set some targets out here for 18 to 24 months out and say if we really wanted to have a fundamentally more powerful set of businesses both in terms of EBITDA-earning capability which I shared with you also just robustness in the market what would we need to do now?" And then out of that came "Okay so how much of that can we afford within the current year budgets that each person has put together?" And then not everything can be afforded within the current year budgets.
And so the question is then "So how do we rank those ideas in terms of where would we be willing to invest from the center because it's powerful and supportive of the company as a whole okay?" And then behind that you need a set of metrics as you say but actually more important than the metrics because it is more around a sense of accountability it's a follow-up process and say "Are we investing this? Is it working? Is it not working and so forth?" So we put that in place.
We have quarterly updates of that dialogue that I just described.
The next one will be held at the beginning of next week for 3 days where we're going to go through all the initiatives that people have committed to where are we on those where else which are working which are not where do we want to double down where does it not look like it's working we want to total back what other ideas do people have do we have any money left in the investment budget do we not have any money.
And we have those conversations and that's on an ongoing basis.
Now I think those would be helped by strict financial metrics that -- but I think the truth is if you get into details enough you have a sense of which ones of these are powerful and worthwhile betting on.
And I think that's the first stage that we have gone to here.
Does that make sense to you? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> It does.
And last one for me the organic growth in the quarter was pretty strong.
I'm assuming there's really not any measurable impact on some of these initiatives at this juncture.
But that's sort of Part A.
Part B is professional service firms aren't really known for collaboration among segments.
Have you addressed or thought about the compensation system? Or is that something for the new Chief Human Resource Officer? In terms of the organic growth some of the organic growth actually comes from some of the initiatives that we have talked about.
Even though we talked about them to you first only a few weeks ago we had some of these conversations as a management team within the first few weeks of me starting.
And although we didn't have the full list fleshed out we could already then start to indicate real support for bets.
And so you talk with Bob Duffy and Kevin they know that they had support for the Office of the CFO back in February and so forth.
So I think it's a blend.
In terms of collaboration across segments where have you seen it? I've always seen complete collaboration across all boundaries in professional services firms.
Does that not happen in your organization? So more seriously of course look you have in every organization -- I think sometimes we demonize that.
I mean in every organization you have powerful professionals who really care deeply about what they're doing and they're focused on what they're doing as opposed to what other people are doing across segment boundaries.
And you can demonize that or you can recognize what it is that you have great professionals who are really busy doing stuff and they want to be value-added.
My experience here is that we do have structural barriers to some of the collaboration that we could get people to do and we need to explore different ways to break those barriers down.
Some of it is compensation which we had talked about first at the ExCo level to make sure the ExCo itself feels like they are incentivized to be a team.
And we're having conversations with that already before Holly gets in there.
We can think about whether that extends more broadly to the SMDs.
I think beyond compensation though which you all know is human resources -- I mean the professional services firms are places of trust and knowledge.
And what you have to do in a partnership of 450 partners is actually get exposure to what people are doing.
I just had a group of key drivers from the -- our partner was grouped together maybe 40 people.
And they loved the conversation with me.
But they loved it even more the conversation with each other about what they were all doing.
And you could see people get pumped up and motivated and people talking about collaborating just by understanding that there were cool people on the other side of the segment boundary.
So there's lots that we are doing are against that compensation may be part of it.
But beyond the compensation one of the core reasons for this all-SMD meeting is to start to break down some of those barriers.
Does that help Jerry? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And we'll go next to Joseph Foresi from Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is just back to the business.
I wonder if you could quantify or let us know what impact you're seeing from the M&amp;A activity.
I know it's been sporadic in the past.
But certainly Strat Comm seemed to do okay this quarter.
And is there any way to quantify that in your expectations for the back half of the year? Well I think -- it's Roger Carlile.
I think a couple of things.
We spoke about in the beginning of the call that our Economic Consulting segment has seen a good movement from their first-look cases into sort of more sustained or larger numbers of sort of the second round of work on those cases.
And our Technology segment has also seen projects related to second requests in those matters.
So I think we're seeing that.
And it is correct to say that our Strategic Communications segment has had more of those activities particularly around the inversion the tax inversion matter you're hearing a lot about in the press now.
So we are seeing that and we are benefiting from it.
I think it's still fair to say that at this moment M&amp;A probably impacts somewhere between 7% and 10% of our revenue.
And that's not been -- because of that first-look work that was in ECON that's not been dramatically changed at this moment.
So I think we're seeing some improvements in the market on those issues.
But I don't think we're looking at that as what's going to really turn the dial in the short run in the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And sticking with a business question I think you mentioned that health care was I think flat or declining in the quarter.
What caused that decline? Are you doing just ICD-9 and 10 work and that got pushed? Or is there more associated with that? And will that continue in the back half of the year? Yes.
I think there's 2 primary drivers.
One is the sort of delay or push of work.
And I think I mentioned that earlier in my comments that with clients looking at the change and how rapidly things are changing we're finding that the activities and projects they wanted to undertake they're now concerned whether or not those are material enough or significant enough to deal with the issue.
So they're taking some time to step back and look at that.
So it has been a push in work.
There's also a timing issue for us in terms of when you're doing sort of the first stage assessment work and the size of those projects versus the implementation part of the work and the success fees that come with that.
So as I mentioned in the comments there were fewer success fees in this quarter.
And that combined with the push of the work caused us to be flattish to a little down on the revenue line.
And however we're investing and hiring in that business because we see it as a strong market growth.
So that investment puts a little more challenge in EBITDA in the short run.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last one for me I know we've been through a lot of changes on the management side and running through the organization.
Is there any way you could give us a sense of sort of where you think you are in that cycle? Are we halfway through it? Is the team set and now we're moving forward? Are we 1/4 of the way? I'm just trying to get a sense of sort of what we can expect from the change function.
I know you've got a lot more to go but just where you think we are at this point.
Yes.
Look I think in terms of new additions to the team I think we are the bulk of the way through if not completely through.
There's still some discussions underway to figure out roles among the team.
And those are underway.
But if you're expecting -- if you're worried do you have to model 70 new C-suite people into your P&amp;L beyond the ones I just gave you today that you don't need to worry about.
And the rest of the discussions will be proceeding in the next little while.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Yes that does.
And we'll go next to David Gold from Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of points of follow-up there.
So first just following up on that one Steve so the senior management level I mean obviously a lot of new additions announced today.
Are there many or should I say any other significant holes or changes that you can talk about there that you plan to fill? I don't think I can really say much more than we've said here today.
I think there's not -- I think the way to think about this is we're well along the journey.
Look I think that I felt a little bad at Investor Day that I couldn't share more with you because some of these announcements were proceeding but not ready to be done.
And so I felt like just because of legal reasons you can't share those things until they're ready to be done and they've been voted and all that sort of stuff by the board.
So therefore I felt a little bad that "There's other stuff to share that I'm not sharing here" that's why I told you that that was underway this summer.
At this point if you see a great person might you move on that just because you find a great person or something? Of course.
But I'm never going to be bound by sort of saying we're going to never hire other people into the C-suite.
But what you've heard so far is the bulk of what I was referring to at the Investor Day when I said over the course of the summer you'd be hearing more about people.
Does that help? LLC</strong> Yes.
And then also on the people front looking at headcount sequentially we're down in almost all of the business lines modestly.
Curious on further thoughts there or plans say between here and year end.
Do we expect to end the year with a higher headcount than here? Or could there still be a little bit more attrition? I expect across the company we will end with higher headcount by the end of the year.
That's consistent with the concept of investment.
And I would say that some of the businesses are short of the headcount that we had hoped for them to hit at this point in time.
Some of this I suspect Roger knows better than I is a little bit seasonal right? I mean when you hire -- the business that hire from schools tend to have inflows in September.
And that's true from a lot of professional services firms.
But we do not have a conscious strategy of shrinking this company.
To the contrary we have to grow the right places but we're growing headcount.
And so I don't think you should extrapolate that trend.
Roger do you have a different view? Or is that...
No.
I think that's right.
I mean I think if you look at just the headcount numbers at the quarter end versus the prior year they're actually in total up a little bit.
They're up in FLC they're up in ECON and they're up in tech.
They're down -- they're essentially flat 5 people difference in Corporate Finance/Restructuring.
And they're down a little in Strat Comm.
And I think that's because we've talked about those 2 businesses being the ones that are probably making the most significant strategic moves at the moment.
And we talked about the rotation that Strategic Communications is going through.
And we've talked about Corporate Finance and Restructuring moving to more non-distressed work.
So you're searching for the people to fit those needs and you have natural attrition in the other areas that you're not replacing.
So those are -- I think those are just sort of normal parts of the investment and sort of transformation process.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
And just one last if I can.
There's been a lot of talk in the call about the spending that you plan to do in the second half.
And it sounds like you have a real good handle on what you're budgeting or planning through.
I guess 2 questions on that.
One why not call it out rather than risk the Street getting it very wrong? And two on an ongoing basis I know you said that this was maybe less one-time in nature but fair to assume that what you're embedding in the second half is a higher level than maybe the ongoing rate would be? Or is that not fair? To the second question let's see.
I think the second half of the year is at a higher ongoing rate than the full year probably not materially.
If we had a choice we would've moved some of the investments into the first half of the year.
Look I'll let Roger answer that.
But I guess the way I'm thinking about this is -- the reason I don't want to break this out because I believe that this is a normal course of business.
What we're doing is we're resetting the stage for this company.
As a company which has historically maybe not as invested as much in organic growth as some people -- as some of us could believe we could have we've invested a huge amount in acquisitions.
We will continue to invest in acquisitions going forward.
But on average I would say we're going to invest less in acquisitions.
But we have to -- but we're going to grow as a company.
We have a right to grow.
We have great positions.
And we will be investing in organic growth.
And so that is a part of the everyday fabric of the business.
And if you sort of break it out then people will sort of say "Well that one is running off or that one is running off." But the truth is we expect to replace that with other ones going forward.
And so I think it's -- the right way to think about this if I could is that this is a cost of being in the business of organic growth that we will be continuing to increase over time.
As the company grows we'll probably be investing more to continue to sustain a growth rate.
And so the reason it looks noticeable is because it's a shift from the past.
And that's why we're calling it out here.
Does that help? LLC</strong> Yes.
So David I think financially how to amplify what Steve said was this if you were to look at just the second half of the year is it likely that or possible that the investment if you annualize that number a bit more than it would be if we were doing it on a full year as Steve said? And yes that's the case because we're starting some of those things a little bit later because of the process.
I think what Steve is saying as we grow you wouldn't necessarily want to think that in fact in '16 as we're hitting those targets that the investment wouldn't be an annualized run rate equal to the last half of the year because I think we're going to grow.
We're going to be able to invest that amount.
So I think that's sort of what's going on.
And I think the reason we haven't called them out specifically is that it is a somewhat fluid process and a dynamic process as Steve mentioned.
We're currently going through review sessions.
We're looking where we are.
We do have a good handle of what we want to do.
But some of those things require finding the right people and you can't -- you can hope to find them by a given date but you can't be certain you can find it by a given date.
So it's somewhat a fluid process.
So I think what we've tried to do is be as clear as we can and giving you -- you now have the full year guidance.
You have what we've done in the first half of the year.
You can see what that difference is.
And we've tried to say that the 2 primary reasons that the second half is down from the first half is because of the concerns of will the strength in FLC and tech continue at the same exact levels in the second half of the year and the investment? And we'll take our final question from Ato Garrett from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So just one quick one on the economic segment and the recovery from the slow start to the year.
So I mean we can see pretty clearly that margins improved utilization rates improved pretty well.
Just thinking about that business kind of going forward as you continue to improve from start of the year do you think -- could you give some commentary around what we might expect around margins relative to say about last year given the new employment agreements that are in place? I think that business in the second quarter got back up on the revenue line to about the rate that we thought they would be at the beginning of the year.
So the first quarter as we've said was a slower start with January particularly being a slower start within that quarter.
So I think at this point they had adjusted segment EBITDA margin of around 15.4%.
And I think we're looking in the 15% to 16% range for the remainder of the year the next 2 quarters.
And of course as the business continues to grow and their investments start to come to fruition that can improve in the forward years a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Then also again on margins looking at Corporate Finance and Restructuring.
Clearly the margin improvement there was driven in part by improved utilization rates.
But curious whether there was anything else that might helped out? As you're making the investment towards the non-distressed businesses whether those happen to carry a higher margin or if there's something else that contributed? No.
And you're talking about sequentially right? Because their margins are essentially flat quarter over -- this quarter to last year.
Are you talking about from the first quarter to the second quarter? Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes.
I think the services that we're performing in the non-distressed services do not typically carry higher margins than do the more distressed bankruptcy kinds of services.
I think the primary reason for the improvement in margin there is better utilization so you can see they were able to get more of their people put to productive use.
And as they have been transforming their market focus and some of the people behind that to focus on those services they can be sure to have the right skills and the right leverage structure behind those projects to get the best margins they can out of them.
So I think it's really those issues that are driving that improvement from the first quarter.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Thank you all for joining.
Have a good rest of the summer.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and instructions I'd like to turn the call over to Mollie Hawkes Director of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Consulting FTI Conference Call to discuss the company's third quarter 2014 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results and other matters.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the safe harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings filed with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this conference call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
Lastly an earnings presentation and an Excel and PDF version of our historical financial and operating data which has been updated to include our third quarter 2014 results was posted to our Investor Relations website this morning.
With these formalities out of the way I am joined today by Steven Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; and our recently elected Chief Financial Officer David Johnson.
At this time I will turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steven Gunby.
Thank you Mollie.
It's nice that I've got a few months under my belt so I don't feel like I'm just staring at this Polycom but I've met some of you.
So let me join Mollie in welcoming you to the call and I look forward to getting to Q&amp;A where I can hear your voices as well as mine.
This quarter was obviously a good quarter one that exceeded the forecast we had had earlier in the year the forecast many of you had.
And I'm sure that leaves you with a lot of questions and interest in the details.
So I'm going to quickly just go to the preliminary remarks and then turn this over to David to get through some of the details that may be on your mind and also get to Q&amp;A.
But before I do that I thought -- David and Mollie and I all thought it might be of interest if I shared a few perspectives on a little bit higher level on what some of the drivers of this quarter were and some perspectives on those drivers.
And let me frame that in terms of 3 different drivers.
One driver which is obviously a good driver but it ties closely to the event-driven nature of our business which is the number of large assignments we've had during the quarter.
And that's probably the largest driver of the outperformance versus our earlier forecast.
One of the great things about this company one of the things you guys have noticed I've noted one of the best things is due to the strength of the professionals we have here and our reputation.
Corporations and lawyers tend to come here when there's truly a critical need and that allows us to disproportionately win some of the largest assignments.
That's not only a good thing it's a great thing.
It's the cornerstone of our business.
Having said that you and I all know we all know that being the big event business introduces some potential volatility quarter-to-quarter.
In some quarters you have the big events and you have the benefit of being involved in some of the major events and those quarters tend to surprise on the upside.
On the other hand in other quarters you have fewer large events and those quarters tend to underperform.
This quarter we had expected the run-off of a number of major global complex cross-border events that had benefited our results in the second quarter.
In particular we had anticipated reduced demand in Technology and Forensic and Litigation Consulting businesses.
Instead a number of the key events in those 2 practices continued into the third quarter.
And that's obviously a good driver.
And part of our strategy going forward as we discussed on our Investor Day is to build that reputation to build upon that reputation and get even a higher share of those events going forward.
But of course looking at it as a basis for forecasting one needs to be a bit cautious.
At some future date inevitably David and I will be in front of you where one of the -- where we don't have those large events.
And so this is a great piece of news and obviously we're excited about it and proud of the work we are doing on some of these large events.
And we're pleased that these engagements extended into the third quarter.
We would suggest that that is a soft foundation on which to build future forecast.
So that's the first driver.
The second key driver of outperformance during the quarter is actually something that I'm disappointed in which David tells me that he's not used to -- it's not usual that CEOs express disappointment about things that led to outperformance.
But in this case both he and I agree that part of the reason the quarter was better than expected is because we under invested relative to what we had targeted.
This is not a major issue.
Our third quarter results are strong but they do represent a slippage to some extent represent a slippage of investment spend from the third quarter to the fourth quarter in a few places.
First of all some of the central spend that we anticipated making in the third quarter to uncover other cost opportunities and commercial opportunities to drive profit improvement in 2015 took a while to get organized.
And so those efforts have been organized and they're starting but the bulk of those efforts are slipping into the fourth quarter and first quarter versus the third quarter.
And we had budgeted costs in the third quarter that have slipped.
Second and relatedly in some of the businesses where we had hoped to invest more in business and development and in R&amp;D it took a little bit longer to hire the people that we had hoped.
Again this is not a major effect but it caused some underspend in the third quarter relative to expectations.
More generally and this I think is an important point as some of you have noticed and as we've discussed as part of our focus on organic growth we have committed to grow our leverage.
I think some of you have noticed this in our job postings.
We are not committed to growing leverage in every place.
Rather we've been following a disciplined process of looking at where we have a right to win and focusing on growing leverage behind our senior professionals in those areas.
And that is a key thrust going forward.
And we've made progress on that but in some areas we are behind on those hiring goals.
We're making progress in the sense that where we identify the right candidates we had a very high conversion rate.
But this focus on leverage and organic growth is a pretty big change in philosophy from where we were in the past and we found restarting our recruiting engine in a bigger way has taken us a little bit more time than we thought.
And with Holly Paul onboard and a tremendous ongoing commitment from the Executive Committee we are making good progress.
But clearly our headcount in a number of key places in the third quarter was below where we had hoped it would be at this point in the year.
So falling short of our expectations in each of these areas of investment obviously benefited our third quarter of earnings.
But falling short here is not actually a good thing.
It's something that improves your earnings but by failing to invest in something that you think is actually key and beneficial for the long term.
I am not actually particularly worried about this.
My experience is in any major change effort things slip.
And you budget a certain amount of slippage into your expectation setting.
And my sense is this slower ramp in investment does not in any way compromise where I see this company able to get to both in 2016 and beyond.
But I thought it was important to mention that that was a not particularly a happy contributor to the third quarter earnings.
Mollie said by this point in the script I was way too dour for a good quarter.
So let me change the tone to be a little bit more upbeat.
The last driver I want to discuss is actually a driver I'm very excited about.
It's a key driver of the quarter and is one that engenders ongoing confidence for me for the company going forward.
And that is embedded in this quarter are also signs that many of the initiatives that we talked about on Investor Day are beginning to bear fruit.
There's a lot of examples that I could point to.
Let me just pick 3 give you some illustrations.
I think you'll remember that in Economic Consulting at Investor Day we talked about a number of initiatives including one around International Arbitration.
International Arbitration is a place where we have a leadership position a right to win but we thought there was opportunity by ongoing investment to grow that business and we committed to that investment.
Embedded into this quarter are signs that that is actually bearing fruit.
And that not only contributes to this quarter but gives us ongoing confidence that we can continue to invest behind that initiative and continue to grow our position there.
So that's a basis for excitement.
Similarly you can go through other segments and find similar stories construction solutions in FLC is a similar story.
Probably harder to see it in the FLC numbers because it's hidden behind some large jobs but it's also a very successful thrust that we're rolling out globally.
And the results in this quarter not only contributed to the results but yielded continued confidence in our ability to make those investments.
The last example I'll cite which I think David he'll go into more detail on is in Corporate Finance and Restructuring.
As you know the bankruptcy markets have not turned around.
And waiting for the bankruptcy markets to turn around is not a strategy for this business.
We talked about at Investor Day that we had real opportunities to win in key non-distressed businesses and that we had committed to investing in those.
And in this quarter a number of those initiatives again showed significant fruit -- bore significant fruit.
We still have a long way to go to turn that business to where we want it to be but the progress we're making there is really exciting.
And congratulations to the team that's been driving that.
So I could go through some other examples and if you're interested you can ask David or me during our Q&amp;A.
But this progress this third driver along with the fact that during this quarter we were able to launch some of the cross-segment initiatives that we talked about at Investor Day are to me a core basis for optimism going forward.
We talked about it at Investor Day.
The event-driven nature of this business means large jobs common large jobs go.
The question is the mission that we've taken on and that our leadership team has taken on is to build a more powerful underlying business with more powerful sustainable underlying trends one that confirms for our best professionals that this is the place where they can come and build a career and build sustained growth in real businesses and one that offers you the investor the confidence that we can over time grow this business profitably regardless of the business conditions and the economic conditions.
For this third driver though it's probably the smallest absolute contributor to the financials -- the growth of the financials in this quarter it's the one that has me the most excited.
It's something that we can and we will build on in the fourth quarter and going forward.
So that's one way to interpret the results.
That's not tied to the specific numbers segment-by-segment.
So for a little bit more detailed view of the quarter let me turn this over to David.
And I'm happy to answer any questions on this perspective during Q&amp;A.
David? Thanks Steve.
It's a pleasure to be here.
I'm going to refer to some of the slides in the presentation that we posted to the website and I think it's incorporated into the webcast.
Turning first to Slide 4.
The revenues this quarter were $451.2 million that's up 8.8% over last year and down slightly from $454.3 million in Q2.
Fully diluted earnings per share were $0.55 compared to a loss per share of $1.29 in the prior year quarter and $0.42 in Q2 of this year.
As a reminder last year's third quarter included a nondeductible goodwill impairment charge for Strat Comm that was $83.8 million; and a special charge of $10.4 million for headcount reductions.
Those were primarily in Corporate Finance and Forensic and Litigation Consulting.
EPS this quarter included a special charge related to executive departures primarily our former CFO Roger Carlile and our Chairman North America David Bannister.
Certain payments were accelerated.
Other compensation obligations were reversed or forfeited so there were pluses and minuses.
But net-net that reduced fully diluted EPS by about $0.08.
And EPS last quarter second quarter included $0.14 of special charges primarily related to the termination of the leases for the corporate plane in the West Palm Beach office.
So our adjusted EPS which excludes all of those special charges were $0.63 this quarter $0.55 last quarter and $0.72 in Q3 last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $63.4 million compared to $59.9 million in Q2 this year and $72.5 million in Q3 last year.
So turning to our segments on Slide 5.
In Corporate Finance/Restructuring revenues increased 6.4% to $100 million compared to $94 million last year.
Revenues were down 4% from $104 million sequentially from Q2 this year.
The increase in revenues over prior year was driven by higher demand for North American non-distressed service offerings that Steve spoke about and growth in the European transaction advisory and tax practices.
That was partially offset by continued softness in global bankruptcy and restructuring engagements.
The decrease in revenues versus second quarter this year was also driven by the same trend in bankruptcy restructuring with particular softness in North America and Asia Pacific and most notably weakness in Australia.
We also saw decreased revenue in our North America real estate advisory practice in third quarter versus 2Q this year.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $15.5 million or 15.5% of segment revenues compared to $19.4 million at the 20.6% margin in the prior year quarter and $19.1 million an 18.4% margin in Q2 this year.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin in 2014 quarter versus last year came from lower realized prices on the non-distressed work.
Declines in bankruptcy and restructuring work which was higher margin; and higher performance-based compensation.
The decrease from second quarter this year was also due to declines in bankruptcy and restructuring work plus some slightly lower utilization sequentially.
Now absent a recovery in traditional distressed work we do not see EBITDA margins in this segment recovering from current levels in the near term.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting or FLC revenues increased $7.7 million to $121.7 million in the quarter compared to $113.1 million in the prior year quarter.
Revenues were up 2.2% from $119.1 million in Q2 this year.
Versus last year organic growth up revenue 4.8%.
The largest drivers were increased demand in the North American investigations practice; and globally in construction solutions and disputes.
That year-to-year growth was particularly impressive given that last year's quarter benefited from a handful of very large success fees which contributed more than $0.06 of earnings to this segment in Q3 last year.
Success fees this year were at a much more normal run rate.
Revenues were also impacted by a decline even excluding success fees in our health solutions practice as we continue to see challenges in the operations improvement lines of business in health solutions particularly in securing large engagements.
The FLC adjusted segment EBITDA was $22.3 million or 18.3% of segment revenue this quarter compared to $25.4 million or 22.4% of segment revenues last year and essentially flat compared to $22.3 million Q2 this year.
The decrease in the adjusted segment EBITDA margin versus last year's third quarter was partly driven by the absence of those high-margin success fees weaker performance in health solutions and higher performance-based comp expense.
Those drags year-over-year were partially offset by higher utilization in global disputes investigations construction solutions and data analytics practices.
As Steve said we're firing on almost all the cylinders here.
The decrease in EBITDA margin versus second quarter this year was driven by slightly lower utilization and higher compensation expense.
The comp increase was due both to higher performance-based accruals in the practices where we're having a good year and salaries for added headcount.
In Economic Consulting revenues increased 6.6% to $120.5 million in the quarter that's compared to $113.1 million last year.
Revenues were $117.2 million sequentially from Q2 this year.
1.1% of the revenue increase over third quarter last year came from ForEx.
The rest came from higher demand for M&amp;A-related services and higher realized pricing in our International Arbitration practice due to staff and engagement mix.
Compared to second quarter this year sequentially we saw an increase in revenues from finance and M&amp;A-related engagements also but with a reduction in antitrust litigation work.
We feel very well positioned here and we're particularly pleased by a surge in first look M&amp;A work that we saw in the third quarter.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $18.4 million in ECON or 15.3% of revenues compared to $23.2 million or 20.5% of revenues in the prior year quarter and $18 million which is a 15.4% margin versus Q2 this year.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin versus last year was driven by increased compensation expense including the contract changes we have described in prior calls.
Our 3Q '14 margin is substantially the same as 2Q '14 and that's consistent with what we expect from the ECON practice going forward.
Turning to Technology.
In the third quarter revenues increased 21.8% to $62.4 million compared to $51.2 million in the prior year quarter and $60.7 million in Q2.
The increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher demand globally for our products and services in complex large-scale global investigations.
And that more than offset lower services pricing.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was $17.8 million or 28.6% of segment revenues.
That compared to $15.4 million or 30% of segment revenues last year and $15.1 million in 2Q and that was a 24.9% margin in Q2.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin versus the same quarter in 2013 was due to an increase in the mix of lower-margin services and investments in global data centers and operation support business development R&amp;D and marketing activities.
The increase in margin versus second quarter was due to an improvement in the mix of services provided.
In Strategic Communications revenues increased 7.5% to $46.6 million in the quarter compared to $43.3 million in the prior year quarter.
Revenues were $53.3 million in Q2 this year.
Favorable ForEx contributed 2.3% to revenue growth versus last year's quarter and the remaining 5.2% came from increased project work in North America and Asia Pacific.
The primary driver of the revenue decrease this year versus the second quarter was a large decline in pass-through revenues.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $6.6 million or 14.2% of segment revenues compared to $4 million or 9.3% the prior year quarter and $5.8 million 10.9% margin in Q2 this year.
The increase in adjusted segment EBITDA margin versus the same quarter last year and over 2Q was due to mix changes towards more profitable engagements also reduced headcount and lower expenses.
That -- expenses reflect many of the cost initiatives we described at our Investor Day.
Turning to the balance sheet cash and cash equivalents were $179 million at quarter end.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $97.6 million compared to $84 million in last year's quarter.
The increase primarily came from higher cash collections which was partially offset by higher compensation and operating expense payments.
Net accounts receivable balance increased by $89 million from year end $71 million from the prior year quarter and decreased $14 million from second quarter this year.
DSOs were 107 at the end of September.
That's up 5 days from last year but down 1 day from June 30.
Turning to our outlook.
As you saw in our press release we currently expect full year revenues to range between $1.755 billion and $1.77 billion and adjusted EPS between $1.85 and $2.
It goes without saying that we were delighted to have earned $0.63 adjusted EPS this quarter but we cannot multiply that by 4 and create a new run rate for the company at least not now.
As Steve mentioned before part of our success this quarter came from delays in hiring and a slow ramp-up of other investments we believe that are critical for our future.
More of those investments will come online in the fourth quarter and we will hopefully reach the level at which they will be just a permanent part of our comparison sometime in 2015.
We're in the budgeting cycle right now and we look forward to sharing guidance for 2015 with you on our next call.
But the biggest investment we are making is a long-term investment in increased revenue-generating professionals to drive leverage and organic growth.
There will be other specific expenses in the fourth quarter that give us foundation for our guidance.
And our guidance obviously assumes we will not repeat third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.63.
For example in November we will gather all of our Senior Managing Directors from across the globe and bring them together for a major meeting to further accelerate our work to reorient FTI towards organic sustainable growth.
This is a big deal both in the benefits we hope to gain but also the cost.
It's hard to precisely fix the revenue impact of taking that many producers offline for several days but the direct cost alone could be $0.07 per share.
Those expenses together with the normal seasonality in our business driven by producer and client vacations in December and the fact that FLC and Technology have now had 2 quarters of outsized performance driven by a few very large engagements lead us to put some bounce on our expectations for the fourth quarter.
There will be added expenses.
And we're planning those.
We know they're coming.
And the impact of seasonality is also reasonably predictable.
The only real wildcard is the large engagements.
Nonetheless our results this quarter actually give us increased confidence that we can achieve our 2016 EPS goals of $2.50 plus and make the required investments that are needed to fund sustained organic growth in 2015 2016 and beyond.
So with that operator we'll open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie.
Steve or whomever I wonder -- it seems like the headcount is kind of below where you were but the revenue really exceeded expectations on a nice way.
Was that a function of just you had more tenured folks stepping up? Or just any sense of what drove the incremental revenue beat even if the hiring wasn't where you wanted it to be? So let me take a crack at it and David you can add if it makes sense.
But Kevin I think the revenue comes from -- the incremental revenue comes essentially from the largest jobs.
I mean there's lots of different causes always.
But the bulk of it comes from the largest jobs just continuing while we're getting some of the underlying growth in some of the other businesses.
For example ECON had been slow in the first quarter.
ECON got back on track the way we expected it to.
But what happened is that we had these large jobs in a couple of the other segments like Tech and FLC and those continued into the third quarter.
The truth is you can always bootstrap to get some of the stuff done even without the headcount.
You basically blow off vacations you have people work in 70-hour weeks.
And you can do that for a while but that's not a sustainable way to grow the business.
And so what we had -- for a couple of the businesses we were running on fumes.
We have just too few too little headcount relative to where they're running on a sustainable basis.
And that makes your earnings in those segments look outrageously good but they're in some ways they're not sustainable.
And So that's how you can marry those 2 phenomena.
Does that answer your question Kevin? It does it does.
And then my second question and I'll get back in the queue was Steve and David since you've been here a couple of questions now I mean I just sense in terms of the calls just a much different feel of the organization overall.
How has that helped internally in terms of internal folks and then on the recruiting side as well because it really feels like you're on a significant upward trajectory in an early stage and just culturally how has that been helping? You or me? You do culture.
I'll do culture.
Maybe next time we'll have Holly be on that call and she can do culture.
Look I think I think -- look you'd have to talk with some of our folks on that right? I wasn't here a year ago and David wasn't here a year ago.
But what I would say is this is a great company.
And there are really really good people here.
And a lot of people know in their hearts that there have been a few years here where we haven't lived up to the history of this company or the potential of this company.
And people are leaning forward.
They're eager for us to get back on that track.
And so I found it -- there's a lot of people to meet and so it's a challenging thing to get out and meet everybody but got to tell you when I meet people it's motivating for me.
And I think the culture of this place is good and it's going in the right direction.
So I hope that partially answers your question Kevin.
It does.
It does.
Our next question comes from Randy Reece with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I don't know what you're complaining about headcount Steve.
It's better than I thought you would do.
Thanks Randy.
LLC Research Division</strong> I don't know how you've managed this sort of hire up with the cost involved.
I'd like you to talk a little bit more about the stages in that process of developing a plan for stepping up your hiring intentions and then how you manage incrementally -- as you go through the process how you manage and tweak your campaign to achieve your goals.
So look that's a detailed question a complicated one.
Let me try to see if I can begin to address it.
But it's particularly complicated because what we're not doing is saying just blanket hire of 1 million first-year consultants in every place around the world.
The hiring needs are derived from us trying to look at each business saying where do we have a right to win and what is necessary to support growth in those businesses? And sometimes what the right type of person is is a midlevel person who's frustrated at a competitor who doesn't feel like they have a right to -- that they're being encouraged to grow there.
Sometimes it is first years.
Each of those have their own unique circumstances because if it's first years you typically have to go wait for recruiting cycles.
You have to look for the right time of year.
And if you missed the recruiting cycle you have to figure out where you're going to get those folks.
Laterals.
A lot of times laterals come because of trust and they know somebody and they believe -- and we have a great proposition here in many of our businesses where we're going to grow but unless people know it they're not going to leave the comfort of their home.
And if you haven't been reaching out as aggressively recently then you haven't been out in the marketplace touching people.
So we have a series of different initiatives by segment by geography that varies depending on the exact goals that we have.
Orchestrating that is a challenge.
A lot of that is not done through the HR organization.
Some of that is done by our professionals just reorienting the time.
And it's a complicated thing because often you're doing that in your busiest businesses where people don't have that much time.
But also it's been -- we've asked the HR organization to step up in a big way.
And Holly Paul if you haven't met you should meet is a terrific add to our team.
I know she just had 3 days worth of meetings with all of her HR team where they were saying "Wow how do we get this all done?" And it wasn't -- and it was with a sense of enthusiasm and conviction.
It's a lot to do Randy but -- and it's a multipart program.
We're trying to organize it and drive it.
Does that help? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just extending from that your direct costs as a percentage of revenue has moved to 65%.
And that's been on a steady uptrend for a number of years.
Is there a point on the horizon we should expect that to max out and start to go the other way? And are there ways that you can influence your gross margin so to speak in the future to improve -- improve that reverse that trend because it would go a long way to helping you reach your EBITDA goals? Yes.
So look the -- I'm not sure I've looked at the exact trajectory of that specific number but let me make sure I underscore a point on that and this is an important point.
When you look at direct costs as a percentage of revenue often the instinct is to sort of cut staff.
But -- and that's the instinct in every professional services firm I've been at.
And yet what you find is that doesn't actually work because what you end up doing is you cut leverage you cut your junior staff and the issue usually is partner productivity.
When partner productivity plummets the revenue the denominator in all those calculations per partner is the problem.
And so what you have to do is you have to figure out who are your best professionals can you support them more and get the revenue per partner up again.
And if you get the revenue per partner up the direct cost as a percentage of sales drops.
Now that's -- you obviously have to disaggregate that.
You can't just hire willy-nilly because then you're hiring more direct cost than your revenue per partner and that part stays the same and then the costs go the wrong way.
But it's that sort of disciplined thinking through each segment of our business that is what we're going through.
And obviously the way I measure it is I don't look at that specific ratio.
I look at partner productivity.
David and I are monitoring that very actively once a month with our ExCo.
But the goal of that is to actually change those economic perspectives that you're talking about.
Does that help Randy? LLC Research Division</strong> Very much.
Our next question comes from Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one numbers question to start.
What was the size of the large projects that you got a sense are due to end? Can you put some parameters around that? Well no not really.
Obviously some of our most important clients are most sensitive about those sorts of things.
But if you look at the kind of the delta between the run rate we were on in the second and the third quarter and then the anticipated run rate into the fourth quarter interestingly enough the actual contribution to profit from the businesses second to third quarter was almost exactly flat.
So the delta really was expense.
If you then look at the delta going into the fourth quarter I'd say a little bit more than half of that is expense which not only do we control we plan on spending.
And then if you look at the other half of the delta downward in fourth quarter for which we're being -- I think looking appropriately at the guidance I would say maybe half of that is stuff that's almost kind of wired in in terms of seasonality and in things that we think are under way in terms of the just the rhythm of how the revenue is going to build in the pipeline.
But then I would say there's probably 1/4 of that -- or 1/2 a 1/4 of the EPS delta and then a 1/2 of the non-expense part of it that you could arguably say is driven by large jobs.
So yes if for some reason none of those dropped off could there be upside in kind of a 1/4 of the delta? Yes.
Again it's difficult to exactly box off what's a large job what's not a large job.
A lot of these large jobs have a bunch of associated revenue with them smaller ancillary assignments.
But I think that that's kind of the dimensions of what the possibility plus or minus is if the accelerators stayed floored on those sorts of engagements through fourth quarter.
That being said in October we're seeing a little bit of early indications that these tree is not going to grow to heaven with regards to those large engagements.
So we think it's appropriate to be cautious.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of headcount and hiring it looks like you hired a little bit over 100 revenue-generating people both sequentially and year-over-year.
But you started out by saying you weren't able to hire quite as fast.
How many more people would you have added in the quarter if every -- all the stars had aligned? Maybe 100? Well in a perfect world we would have transported down from the starship consulting 500 revenue people.
But what in practice could possibly have happened if the wind had been on our back given our recruiting resources maybe 100 more.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about the increased leverage that your strategy entails.
Do you have to wait for graduation in the spring? Or is it not contingent upon that and more focused on recent grads? I mean the answer is yes.
Leverage is driven by both but I think probably the most impactful leverage is going to be at the mid-levels in terms of its ability to get more profitable revenue per producing SMD.
So no we don't have to wait for the annual cycle but that's a very important part of our recruiting too.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question for me and I'll get back in the queue is how does international growth compare to the company's overall growth rate? What is it as a percentage of sales? And could you discuss kind of currency in general? We're looking at that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd be happy to take that offline if you don't have those numbers now.
Yes we'll take that offline.
I mean the answer is it's kind of all over the place.
Global -- it's in restructuring.
We saw some particular weakness internationally especially in Australia which is probably sort of not positive.
On the other hand in Europe we're seeing some real successes in ECON and in some of the other businesses and also Strat Comm too.
So I think it's hard to discern a global trend.
We'll tally it up and we can give you the breakout for growth offline.
Our next question comes from Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So one quick question.
Just the continuation or the contribution from long large cases were these new cases that came onboard meaning there's just a normal churn in it? Or is it some of the stuff from early this year just has had longer legs than you would have expected? David's just shuffling papers here.
Let me take a crack at that Tim and then he can correct me if I get it wrong.
No I think it's mostly continuation of cases that are large cases that contributed to the second quarter results that we had anticipated might either settle or end or reduce substantially into the second half of the year.
That continued into the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk the European tax and TAS practice was brought up.
That's an area you talked about even at the Investor Day and I think before about being an upfront investment you've made on people.
You brought over that we're on garden leave.
Is that -- can we take that comment as a sign that that business is ramping up? And I guess the -- and losses are up from investment.
Are you starting to see some traction with that going in the other direction? Yes.
We're making progress there.
We're excited about that.
We got a long way to go to turn that to its full potential but we're excited about those -- both of those bets in Europe and they're making progress.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair -- is it still in an investment mode or a loss-making mode? Or is it significant enough that that's not a major drag on profits anymore? Are we to answer at that level of detail? No I don't think we're able to break it at that level of detail yet.
But -- so I would not say there was a giant contribution in the quarter from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
Tim let me say this in a different way.
The hope there is that that business turns to a profit generator one actually that we thereby continue to invest in it in the sense of continuing to add headcount.
Because if we have the success we hope we're going to have room to bet behind the bet if that makes sense.
And what I would say is we're showing real progress in those bets at this point.
Was that helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes.
That helps.
You also talked about wanting to push the lever the staffing pyramid up or out I guess might be the right way to say it.
Can you quantify for us at all where you got to? Maybe this quarter where you hope to get that to in terms of a partner SMD to kind of a junior-level consultant kind of ratio or just some other metric so we can gauge kind of the progress on that over time? Yes I would think we would have to do that by segment.
Because it's quite different leverage ratios.
You might run in Strat Comm at a leverage ratio of 12 and you might run in certain disputes business -- businesses at a ratio of 3 or 4.
So it's quite different.
And the mix affects it.
So Corp Fin as we're now growing performance improvement leverage ratio on our performance improvement business in Corp Fin the target leverage there is quite different than the target leverage you have for if you're a Chief Restructuring Officer in a bankruptcy.
And so I don't have an aggregate number in part because we're changing the mixes of the percentages of our businesses.
So if we wanted to get -- I don't know if we release that level of detail or not but we can maybe get back on a little bit more general parameters around that down the road or -- David? Yes I think that will be frankly a major part of our guidance discussion for 2015 next quarter.
As Steve said it's a major strategic investment from us right now.
We're trying to figure out exactly how much investment we're going to make and leverage and what is the target leverage ratio for each segment.
We haven't finalized that yet though directionally everybody knows that with rare exceptions more leverage is the answer.
So I think we can certainly commit to giving you a lot more tangible detail on what we expect to get to and what our plans are next quarter.
But right now the hood is open there.
Everybody knows more is the answer.
It's just a question of how much more.
And the right core [ph] is an important issue too right? I mean leverage isn't leverage.
Great people is a different thing than lots of good people.
So we have to work through this to make sure we're getting the people who can build the business Tim.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then you brought up 20 -- guidance for next year.
I guess the standard answer is probably we got to wait until you get through the budgeting process but you are in a unique situation where you gave out a number in June for next year that people have kind of in their minds.
Without I guess maybe being more specific informed by the budget process just given what you've seen between June and now how does -- how should we think about that kind of guidance that you gave previously? Are there factors that make you feel more positive? Or are there -- is it unchanged I guess from what you were thinking at that time? Yes.
Mollie is putting in front of me what we said then since I wasn't here.
But look I think they're pretty much exactly what we said.
The fact that -- or the revenue and profit generation of this company can be quite strong as we saw in the second and the third quarter obviously gives us more confidence as we start to make more concrete our investment expectations and what needs to be in the permanent run rate of this company in terms of both cost of leveraging junior- and middle-level professionals but also frankly consistent investment every year in what's in the -- the businesses and the people and the products are going to generate the growth in the 2 or 3 years forward.
I'd say those pretty much offset and leave us -- we're not updating the guidance that was given for 2015 today.
But I think our path is we are where we are for 2014.
We are unwavering in our goals for 2016.
So you can kind of draw a line between them.
I think we're pretty confident that we can be on that line between them while still making the investments necessary.
What we're spending a huge amount of time right now is finalizing that investment program for 2015.
Your next question comes from Jerry Herman with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> First I sort of have a 2-part question on your producers.
And your results wouldn't necessarily suggest this but given the significant changes the organization has gone through have you seen any change in sort of regrettable attrition? Has that increased in any way? And really sort of part 2 of that question is you guys have taken a different approach in terms of higher compensating executives but can you speak to any changes or updates with regard to the producers and compensation changes? So let me take that -- those 2 parts on.
Look as far as I know and I monitor this we have not had substantial regrettable attrition at all and I've been pleased with it.
I think the -- as I talked about earlier I think -- and look there are 4 000 individuals out there.
I'm sure there are 4 000 different stories but if you get to touch people I think people are excited about creating a new FTI that starts to fulfill their aspirations.
And I think -- so I'm sure there will be at different points in time some regrettable attrition that happens in all professional services but it kills me.
I think I really like to avoid that.
And so far I've seen no substantial regrettable attrition.
So we're excited about that.
David it's actually down this year.
I mean regrettable isn't a term we have in-house but voluntary definitely is down.
And then part 2 of your question was -- I've forgotten.
Oh comp...
So look on that one let -- so let me talk to that for a second and let me make a big a very sharp distinction between comp at the executive and managerial level and the comp at our SMD level.
We've made substantial changes in the comp structures for my direct reports at the C-suite level the new people we've brought in.
My comps -- as you know my comp structure is quite different than was historically and the 3 new people we've brought in have been brought in with a very different comp structure.
And I think that's what you're referring to.
And we've had conversations at the ExCo level about the comp structure for the rest of my direct reports.
And we're in the process of seeing if we can retool that to be more performance-driven and more congruent with where we're trying to take the company.
And that is something that's actively being worked on by our chief HR Officer Holly Paul and we're trying to make very substantial progress on that over the next months.
So that is a place where I think we need to move fast just because we need to have the right leadership team with the right mental maps aligned and pulling in the same direction and we're moving fast on that.
I draw a big distinction between that and changing comp structures for the partners in a major partnership.
We have very different comp structures scattered around our organization very different history.
Some people come from one type of firm.
Some people come from another type of firm.
And you don't change that just unilaterally top-down.
If the partnership if the group decides that they -- that we want to change or we -- we will have the right conversation to do that but that's a much more careful and slow process.
You do that precipitously people jump out the window even if they would be benefited because people don't like thrust like change thrust upon them.
If your direct reports don't like this thrust changed upon -- change thrust upon them a little bit tough.
That's what part of being in the C-suite is.
But you don't do that with your 450 SMDs or SMD equivalents.
And so that will have discussions.
There's always been discussions.
Some of our segments are much more set up to be low -- not performance-based comp but more focused on building teaming within the segment.
Some of them are very much performance based.
There's lots of different philosophies about what's the right way.
We'll probably have conversations about that over time but I would say that's a thoughtful slow conversation as opposed to what we're doing at the C-Suite level.
Does that help? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes.
Another question I had was with regard to the investments that you guys have referenced to drive organic growth.
Steve I was hoping you would help us sort of frame what -- or quantify in some way what those investments have been thus far since the plan was initiated.
And any measure on how they have created yields? What those investments have yielded? You've given some good examples today but is there any way to put framework around that in terms of size or contribution? You want me to take that or you what to take that? Well on contribution I mean I think it's frankly at this early stage extremely difficult.
I would give you the largest example so far is the senior producer SMD meeting we're having this quarter.
That's going to be a very expensive investment extremely difficult to measure what its marginal return is.
Our assumption going in is that it will be excellent.
But it will play out in hundreds of different ways in terms of synergies with regards to teams working together product opportunities that heretofore had not been discerned building greater enthusiasm and understanding of some of our initiatives.
And if we can't discern a measurable or at least a discernible return after we do it we don't do it again.
But the -- I would say the majority of the investments are of that nature.
They're investments in ideas.
They're investments in coordination.
They're investments in study.
That's the lion's share of the direct investments this year.
And they're not huge.
I don't think we really have the ability to even break them out as a dollar amount though we can work on that.
I think going forward as the largest part of the investments starts turning towards leverage and changing the business model with regards to how we lever producers then yes we'll be able to have a fairly tangible measures of the return and we'll be tinkering with the leverage model for each segment to maximize profit.
Steve if you have a different take on it.
No look just that it's a wide range of investments and some of the them are very concrete and discrete to pay for headhunters to find David and Holly and that's pretty clear.
And those are onetime except that you might have other onetime things like that when you are in a change effort which is why we're suggesting you build in a certain amount of investment into your forecast.
Some of them are pretty squishy in terms of the benefits but we're -- we are really excited about it even if it's hard to quantify like the all SMD meeting.
And then there's some other stuff which is -- like some of the stuff that got delayed into quarter or a couple of consulting pieces of work where we're looking at indirect expenses.
And that's very clearly measurable.
You spend a certain amount and we're going to hopefully drive down our indirect expenses by a certain amount which would show up hopefully by the second half of next year.
And not in huge way but in a way that makes the investment in the fourth quarter cost effective.
And so it's a wide range of these sorts of things.
I think the reason we haven't been breaking them out is because we're trying to -- and this is David this is important for you to hear and to contribute to as we go forward is I think the issue is if you -- at least from my experience is if you're in a change effort like we are where we're trying to take this company from one period of greatness to the next one you're going to have ongoing investments.
The specific consulting study may be different specific headhunter search may be different.
Instead of doing the all SMD meeting you do something else that invests behind your people but my experience is there is always a substantial amount of investment in order to move from one model to the next generation of success.
And so I'm pretty willing for us to have accountability for us to show results at the end of the day.
But we can't be thinking of treating those investments as onetime because there's going to be another group of other so-called onetime investments behind it.
And that's why we're encouraging you to think of those as a slug of ongoing investments even though the specific studies and so forth may be different.
Does that make any sense? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes.
Very helpful.
I appreciate it.
And our goal is to have the right level of ongoing investment be just a permanent part of our run rate comparison starting in 2015.
And then we won't be speaking about investments as a discrete thing.
It'll just be a cost of doing the business.
Next we'll hear from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the performance improvement.
I think some of your private competitors do a lot of performance improvement because they have a lot of sort of debtor-side consultants in the restructuring process.
And I think that makes it easier to do both -- to do performance improvement.
Can you just kind of give us a breakout within your Corp Fin/Restructuring division sort of credit-side experts versus debtor-side experts? And how big currently performance improvement is maybe as a rough percentage within Corp Fin/Restructuring? Let me give you one qualitative point and then I'll let David see if he has the quantitative side.
I think we are obviously very strong in certain creditor side.
But I think people underestimate how much debtor side work we actually do.
So that's probably worth clearing up.
And we do actually a quite substantial amount of debtor side and I don't know if we released the specific numbers but I'll let David decide that.
And so there's that.
There's also some areas where we have I think unique advantages versus some of our competitors because of some of the multiple businesses we're in.
For example we have a business which we call the Office of the CFO where we have a group of people who sometimes do debtor -- who sometimes work in bankruptcy who are ex-CFOs who have worked in bankruptcy.
Well there are companies that need to go public and private companies that need to rapidly scale up their internal finance capability.
And they all need studies.
They need people who can do the study but also be on the ground and help ramp it up.
We have a group of people who can go do that and those people not only come -- are in our Corp Fin business but if they need to they can draw on some of the accounting experts that we have in FLC.
We have some of the great deepest accounting experts in FLC who can be brought into that.
And so this Office of the CFO business to me is an area where we absolutely have a right to win and we're scaling it.
And that's -- and we're not behind anybody in our right to win there.
So I think what we've been trying to do is to look for not just performance improvement that puts us in the face of a McKinsey or a BCG or other people.
It's a place where we have within that the right to win and let's scale those up rapidly.
Does that make sense Paul? Research Division</strong> Yes.
David anything to add? Non-distressed revenues were about 40% of the total segment revenue in Corporate Finance.
And again how you define that can vary.
But with regards to headcount actually I had this conversation with the man who runs that practice and he actually very strongly corrected me and said "Look the vast majority of our people there are not debtor they're not distressed they're not non-distressed.
They're experts who can work on any one of these types of engagements." So we might have some particular producers or originators who have strong guide on the debtor or the creditor space.
The vast majority of the capability there can go where the work is and where the need is for the clients.
So we don't look at having a lot of say stranded headcount in one side of it or another.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And David just a follow-up on that non-distressed revs roughly 40s.
Is health care the biggest piece of that? Or is it performance improvement? Health care has captured in a different segment than Corp Fin.
Healthcare is...[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Sorry yes.
So performance improvement is the biggest part of non-distressed? No I wouldn't say that.
Again the non-distressed is a much broader group of services as we execute in Corporate Finance which also includes for example our TMT Telecom Media and Technology practice.
You have post-merger integration.
You have tax and TAS as we were talking about before.
I mean there's a lot of stuff we do that's non-distressed.
Performance improvement I think has a much perhaps more clearly understood delineation in health services and that competitor space than it would in our larger Corp Fin business where we do a lot of different kinds of non-distressed work.
Our next question comes from Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I understand that the initiatives are fairly new but any idea of what kind of measurements we -- or measure what kind of measuring stick we could use to kind of get an understanding of the progress you've made or when we'll be able to get better visibility on those measurements? Well the way -- and Joseph I can't remember were you at our Investor Day? I'm trying to remember...
Research Division</strong> Yes I know you laid them out fairly clearly but I just -- and I know you gave some goalposts but I was wondering on a quarter-by-quarter basis when the visibility would kind of improve on something that we could look at directly.
Yes so I'll let David think about that.
Part of the issue here is some of these are competitively sensitive.
I gave these goalposts because I want you to have a guide and know where we were shooting.
And I think we owe it to you to tell you if we are as a company as a whole radically off from those goalposts or we still believe we're on track for those.
But then it's broken down into very specific bets where we're saying we're going to scale up because we think we could win competitively.
And I'm not sure if I want to be giving week-by-week or even quarter-by-quarter tips to our competitors that says "Oh boy.
These guys are succeeding there.
Maybe I've got to focus there also." So I think I'm going to have to let David think about how we balance that with you.
Let me say at the highest level I laid that out.
As you'll remember we gave financial goalposts which were tied to specific initiatives to every segment for 2016.
We do not assume that everybody would actually hit those numbers when we modeled our $2.50 a share.
We in fact had gone through a probabilistic discounting of those.
I would say at this point if I had to sit down and do the probabilistic discounting probably every number would change a bit.
But I'm still -- some of them up some of them down because of what you've seen in the interim 3 months.
But I would say that there's nothing that has made me less confident about where we're trying to be in 2016 and where we are on these initiatives.
And -- but we've got a lot of work to do is the other side of this.
I mean we got a lot of work a lot of investment to do.
We don't sit here and get to where we need to in 2016.
We've got a lot of work to do.
But I'm saying the goalposts overall goalposts are still in intact from my perspective.
Does that help Joseph? Research Division</strong> Yes it does help.
On the -- on the events why did they continue in this quarter? What was the surprise on that side? And I know this was asked probably 2 or 3 different ways but any color you can give around the size and margin contribution from the events that had the positive impact in this quarter? Well I tried to give some dimensioning of the potential impact good or ill on fourth quarter.
It's again difficult -- well it's impossible for us to go into the real detail obviously given these are investigations or other projects that are obviously sensitive.
But the dimensions of what -- well where FTI is most important and most valuable to its clients is in situations where the need for us is somewhat out of their control.
And so how long you will need to produce pursuant to a document to an investigation how wide-ranging it becomes whether -- if it's a dispute whether that's resolved early or late is very much out of our control and in many cases outside of the control of our clients.
So difficult to be much more specific than that.
But yes I would say about 1/4 of the delta between our second and third quarter run rate and the fourth quarter run rate that's in our guidance probably you could say is in the zone of the amount of exposure up or down to the pace dropping on these large engagements.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And are -- these are engagements I mean correct me if I'm wrong that could start and stop at any point in time? Not necessarily there's a tail to them and then they may end.
Is that a fair way of thinking about them? I would look at them as freight trains that unexpectedly drop off 1 2 or even larger numbers of cars.
It's...
You've seen too many Westerns.
Yes probably.
Does that help? Was that helpful Joe or was that confusing? Research Division</strong> I don't know if I'm going to touch that analogy one way or another.
I think I'll probably just stay away from it.
On initial...
[indiscernible] That's the model.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So it's just I guess keep it on the track or I'm sure you can use a bunch of different other things there.
On the -- just my last one from me.
Any way to think about the margin profile as we kind of just brush up our models again keeping goalposts in mind but also these events as we head into next year? And I'm thinking more on the consolidated basis.
Well I think the biggest driver of margin volatility is going to be corporate level expense.
That was the big driver one of the drivers second to third quarter.
I think the individual segment margins were not looking for big changes in most of them.
I think ECON is at a reasonable run rate where it is.
I think Corp Fin is not going to get to a much better run rate unless distressed comes back.
I think FLC could drop a little bit as they kind come off their white-hot pace.
And Tech is going to be a bit volatile as you saw in the second to third quarter.
In Strat Comm we're very pleased.
We had a previous question about how do you measure the benefit of the initiatives.
We'll they've been on a cost discipline initiative for a while even before Investor Day and I think you're seeing that in the stabilization of their margins.
And they've been on kind of a slow steady improvement there.
So I hope that that's helpful.
We are a sum of our parts with regards to margins.
There's not a stable corporate margin.
It really does build up from the individual units.
Our next question comes from David Gold with Sidoti.
Inc.</strong> I just have 2 quick questions.
One was I just wanted to get a little bit of better sense.
When we talk about the sort of delay in hiring and investment spending if you could give a sense for what went wrong there.
Was it just a later start? Or less folks coming onboard than you expected? Or where did we miss there? Yes I think -- look I think it's -- if you just think about -- I came in as the new CEO we start launching a whole set of initiatives and people put down numbers in terms of where they think they can get to.
And then they turn to people and ask them to go hire folks and it's -- but the sum of the numbers is radically different than what the sum of the numbers were that people thought they were going to do.
And because it's very different than the direction that people had.
And then you -- and then therefore -- and then by the way if you haven't been out recruiting for a while it sometimes takes a little bit of time to sort of reestablish contacts and reestablish access points and so forth.
And so I think we just missed a little bit how long it would take to ramp some of that back up.
It's not a -- I don't think it's a material issue with respect to where we'll get to in the medium-term but it was a shortfall in terms of this quarter.
Does that help David? Inc.</strong> Sure.
So...
And then the same issue -- the same issue with respect to some of the other stuff.
So for example I mean it's a trivial case but I wanted to launch a review of some of our indirect expenses in the third quarter.
And then we had to figure out who that'll report to and I ultimately decided that that should report to one of our new hires and the new hires were getting up to speed.
And so it took us a little bit longer to get that thing organized.
So instead of that consulting expenditure being in the third quarter the consulting expenditure will be in the fourth quarter.
I mean it's not more romantic or more profound than that.
And some of that happens when you have this number of new initiatives and a management team that's getting itself organized around those new initiatives some new members of the management team.
My experience is that I did a lot of change efforts in my previous life and my experience is some of that happens to all the change efforts.
You don't know exactly which things are going to slip but if you lose yourself into believing everything is going to be on time then you're going to get disappointed.
On the other hand you have to have an edge and urgency and demand because you can't allow everything to slip.
So you have to walk the line between that edge of we got to get this stuff done and occasionally knowing that stuff will slip.
But it's not more profound than that David.
Does that help? Inc.</strong> It does it does.
Do you think that part of it is new hires proving to be more expensive maybe than anticipated? Or is that not a factor in the equation? I don't think so.
I think that we've had pretty good luck in getting the people converted when we find them and more I think -- and Holly -- I'll check with Holly but I think that the truth is I think it's within the ballpark of what we thought we would get.
It's more around accessing all the pools that you want to go to.
I mean we all like to believe that when we put up a sign everybody stops what they're doing and says let me apply.
But you need to reach out to people.
They don't notice that you -- and then they have a perception that you weren't growing this business or that business and you have to change that.
And then you -- and once you get through that process then people say "Wow that's a great opportunity." But that process takes longer if you haven't been doing as steadily for a while.
And I think that's what we're encountering.
But it's not an expense issue as far as I know.
Does that help? Inc.</strong> Perfect.
Just one last quick one.
So with the delay in the hiring and the spending I think you said earlier no change to 2015.
But I guess the natural would be to think that some of this expense -- the would leak into 2015.
Is that a fair assumption? Let me say this and then David can correct me.
I've only talked about 2016.
I have aspirational targets for 2016 and we're not changing those aspirational targets for 2016.
I see us on the path of trying to create a business that can hit those numbers in 2016 and grow beyond and have a sustainable growth rate beyond.
And that's what I'm trying to organize our company around.
The quarter-to-quarter in between now and then can be affected by a whole lot of things.
Slippage of spend from 1 quarter a windfall of some big jobs that we didn't expect a shortfall of big jobs.
I haven't focused on that in Investor Day.
The only thing I did was give a range in between the 2 numbers where we thought '14 was going to come out in 2016.
If you remember at Investor Day I focused on really on the '16 numbers and then we had a forecast at that time for '14.
So I don't personally have a view on '15 at this point.
I have not formed a view that moves us off of previous estimates but I haven't formed a different view either.
We're going to do that during the budgeting process which is under way.
And I think of '15 as part of the change effort that is going to get us to '16 and beyond is the way I think about that.
So does that help David? Inc.</strong> Perfect perfect.
It sure does.
Okay.
Thank you much.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining today's call.
The call has now concluded.
Thank you all.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mollie Hawkes Director of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's fourth quarter and full year 2014 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results and other matters.
For discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the safe harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most recent Form 10-K and in our other filings filed with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this conference call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as our reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
Lastly there are two items that have been posted to our Investor Relations website this morning for your reference this includes quarterly earnings call presentation that will refer to during this morning call and an Excel and PDF of our historical financial and operating data which has been updated to include our fourth quarter and full year results.
With these formalities out of the way I am joined today by Steven Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Johnson our Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steven Gunby.
Thank you Mollie.
Let me join Mollie and welcome everyone to today's call.
As many of you know on the call that I recently had my one year anniversary as CEO of FTI.
But I like to start by just thanking many of you on this call for the input and thoughts you've given over the last year.
It’s obvious that a great number of you have involved with this company for a long time many of care deeply about this company and number of you have been good enough to share thoughts and observations with me.
So thank you very much for that and for those you who I haven’t had the chance to meet this past year I very much look forward to changing that.
We had a pre-announcement this quarter that pre-announcement of course did not give the full texture and the opportunity for Q&amp;A that normally companies are earning releases.
I suspect therefore that many of you are eager for me to get off this stage and here David give more details regarding the fourth quarter and the earnings outlook.
So I will do that I will be brief here and just a brief introduction.
Which I really to make only one point and that is that I -- management team and I continue to have total commitment and conviction in the aspirational targets we have for 2016 and our guidance for 2015.
Doesn’t mean we don’t have work to do of course in any professional services firm you have work to do.
But the fourth quarter changes not in any way -- in any material way in my mind change the amount of work the nature of the work and the type of work.
We're very much on track with the process that we outlined on Investor Day.
So let me maybe take a minute or two -- I'm sure that’s a question on your mind to flush out that logic as a preamble to David's description and then I'll come back after the more detailed preview by David.
Now the way I like to do that is maybe take you back to Investor Day which I know many of you were at which is when we first set our aspiration for 2015 and '16.
If you remember back then our projected EPS that we shared with you for 2014 at that point was 155 to 170 i.e.
essentially where we came out for this year.
So the question becomes how did we get to the end of the year and you'd get to the end of the year in a root that actually strengthens your confidence and the underlying business or weakens it.
But let me tell you why it leaves me at least as bullish as it did during Investor Day.
If you recall over the course of fall what happen was our sales continued stronger as some of the big jobs we were involved in continued longer we got some other jobs and so by the end of October we felt force to raise our guidance for the quarter.
And that was despite the fact that we thought to as a chance there was going to be a whole lot of investment in the fourth quarter we always know there is a chance of volatility of sales and so forth and so we raised our guidance at the end of October.
Then late in the fourth quarter couple of things happen first of all we actually did invest a lot in the fourth quarter second of all we finally had the sale slowdown that we’ve being thinking about during the course of the year.
And then far more significantly we also in December and during the close and covered a series of cost items.
So a bunch of tax items which David will go through with some [freverance] that ended up cumulative returning our forecast back to the earlier range.
So may be let me pull that a part revenue weakness is obviously something you take seriously in monitor and fact that David will say some of that revenue weakness in a few of our businesses extended into January and so we’re monitoring that and we're looking at the plans that people have to get it on track and so forth.
But the important point is that the revenue weakness in the business was by far the smallest portion of the short fall in the fourth quarter.
Largest part of the fourth quarter mix was not business driven not the revenue was not business driven in fact had nothing to do with the initiative to drive growth.
The actions we have underway to liberate the underlying value of this company with a bunch of tax issue severance issues and so forth.
So at least when I look at it it did not change my -- neither our plans for 2015 or ’16 nor lessening the confidence that we have for 2015 and 2016.
We have work to do in this company as many of you said and when I took the job the changes to liberate the value of this company is not a one year job and we know that I know that David knows that the management team knows that.
But as we will talk about it during David's talk and it has come back and we're making progress on that journey people are making progress we have initiatives that are working.
So I end the year little silvered by some of the things we've learned in the fourth quarter but with tremendous conviction that we're on track to liberate the underlying value on this company and with tremendous conviction in our plans for '15 and '16.
So with that as a preamble let me turn the call over to David and I will share some other thoughts with you a little later.
David? Thanks Steve.
Before I turn to the results I would like to also briefly talk about our decision to preannounce results.
This wasn't an easy decision when the information came together in the last week of January our results were still preliminary and we were not completely done closing the books we certainly weren't with the audit.
Nonetheless we felt it was important to share what we knew quickly.
There are two things we value really highly in our communications with our investors communicating promptly and communicating in depth.
In this case we're faced with a conflict between the two and we choose prompt.
We understood and we regretted that being early left us unable to make phone calls answer your questions offer more details and explanation and I hope they won't be put in that situation again.
Turning to the Slide 4 on the deck I am going to speak in the reverse of our normal order.
I talk about some of the mundane but in this case small details and then speak about our business results.
So let me start by being clear as Steve said a portion of our mix was driven by the business we ha d some revenue softness later in the quarter.
But the business shortfall would have led us to disappoint not preannounce.
So let's first walk through some of the unexpected items.
For your convenience I have laid those out on Slide 4 with reference to the middle of our previous guidance range $1.93 and compared that to our reported adjusted of EPS of a $1.64.
There were a number of tax adjustments in the fourth quarter.
The largest item by far was the Australian tax reserve which impacted EPS by $0.11.
Over the last few years FTI has made a significant commitment to Australia notably with the acquisitions of Taylor Woodings in 2013 and KordaMentha in 2012.
Our commitment to Australia is unchanged but in 2014 our results were disappointing.
Continuing weakness in the Australian restructuring markets hurt us and the fourth quarter was well below our forecast in fact it put us in a three year cumulative tax loss position in the relevant entity.
Under U.S GAAP that calls for us to set up a reserve offsetting the future benefits of the units NOLs and that reserve is required even if you project future profitability in the ultimate use of the NOLs which we do.
With some good fortune we might even see some of that valuation allowance come back in 2015 but it was a big number $0.11.
Other changes in our annual income tax rate excluding the Australian valuation allowance contributed about $0.03 to the variance from our expectations for fourth quarter results and included amounts related to deductibility of certain international tax items outside of Australia.
We off set just $0.02 for severance for a senior professional in our corporate finance business just to clarify that's on top of the $0.02 special charge we previously disclosed in connection with departure of our GT.
Additionally our results in the economic consulting segment were impacted by a true-up of our obligation to equalize practitioners for state income tax paid when they travel for business outside of their home state.
That adjustment impacted our adjusted EPS by about $0.03.
The tax equalization program that caused us to have that liability has been capped going forward; we will address this volatility and significantly lower cost going forward.
Other items of similar nature but much smaller aggregated to $0.03.
In operations revenues were weaker and particularly in a couple of segments in the latter part of the fourth quarter and that contributed to segment operating performance reductions that netted out to about $0.07.
So I will now turn to talk about the business results.
So turning to Slide 5 revenues for Q5 were 425.2 million that's up 2.2% from the prior year quarter and down 5.8% from 451 million in Q3.
FX contributed 1.4% of the sequential revenue decline; excluding FX revenues were down 4.4% for the third quarter.
Fully diluted GAAP EPS not adjusted were $0.02 compared to a loss of $0.18 in the prior year quarter and $0.55 in Q3.
Q4 fully diluted EPS included many items we discussed above plus the previously disclosed special charge and as some of you probably know we exclude special charges from adjusted EPS of 1.6 million which was also $0.02 and that was related to the departure of the GT.
Excluding those special charges adjusted EPS for Q4 were $0.04 as compares to $0.63 in Q3 and $0.39 in the prior quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was 36 million or 8.55 of revenues compared to 63.4 million or 14.1% of revenues in Q3 and 47.7 million or 11.5% or revenues prior year quarter.
Full year revenues were 1.76 billion up 6.3% year-over-year.
2014 fully diluted EPS was at $1.44 compared to a loss of $0.27 prior year and as a reminder the prior year included a goodwill impairment charge for strategic communication special charge related executive terminations and a reduction of a liability related to contingent acquisition or net all which net decrease fully diluted EPS by 2.43.
For fiscal 2014 our adjusted EPS were $1.64 which compares to 2.09 in 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA for the year was 210.6 million or 12% of revenues which compares to 245.6 million or 14.9% of revenues in 2013.
Turning to our segments on Slide 6.
In corporate financing restructuring revenues in the quarter increased 0.3% and 93.1 million compared to 92.8 million last year revenues were down 7% from a 100 million in Q3.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was 9.9 million 10.6% margin as compared to 10.9 million or 11.7% margin prior year quarter and 15.5 million or 15.5% of revenues in Q3.
Adjusted segment EBITDA margin was impacted unfavorably by a decline in higher margin bankruptcy and restructuring activity lower performance in Asia lower bill rates in North America and EMEA and severance cost related to the departure of the senior professional that I spoke about before.
The business continues to benefit from investments in the EMEA region.
In Q4 Europe Middle East Africa resulted in organic growth of 60% in that region compared to the prior year quarter led by our transaction advisory and tax practices both of those businesses are expected to be EBITDA contributors in the second half of 2015 and that gives us increasing confidence that [bad debt] will begin to pave up for as meaningfully in 2015.
In North America we continue to benefit from strengthening non-distressed business.
In Q4 non-distressed revenues were approximately 45% of the core North America business up from approximately 35% in Q4 ’13 and about 40% Q3.
Growth in our transaction advisory and tax practices in EMEA and the non-distressed business in North America was partly offset by decline in North America and Asia Pacific bankruptcy and restructuring practices where that was noted several times already with particular weakening in Australia.
That weakness in Australia has been led by a decline in the Australian dollar lowering of interest rates by the Australian Central Bank and that led to a significant decline in insolvencies in that market.
And lastly we remain committed to Australian and our team is working hard to reposition resources they are adding staff to support M&amp;A work agro business advisory funds mining while making offsetting cuts in those areas.
Looking forward to 2015 our corporate finance segment as a whole is off to a solid start particularly driven by North America.
Restructuring activity appears to be increasing particularly in interim management assignment and in selected industries notably retail industry we actively invested in 2014 adding headcount changing how we go to market.
We have recently won a number of headline engagements including RadioShack Wet Seal [ASH] and Caesars Entertainment among others.
We’re also holding cache -- we also pulled a continuing momentum form our investments in the tax and advisory business in Europe we’ll add another layer of increase to the bottom-line in the second half for the year.
Consistent with last year we see the first quarter contributing less than a quarter of the full year’s results with the mid-teens EBITDA margin in the segment for first quarter.
Both the EBITDA margin and the share of annual contribution from [indiscernible] will hope to move up in the latter half of the year comparable with last year’s seasonal pattern.
Forensic and litigation consulting or FLC revenues increased 5.6% to 121.1 million in the quarter compared to 114.7 million in the prior year quarter.
Revenues decreased 0.5% from record revenues of 121.7 million in Q3.
Compared to Q3 fourth quarter ended up roughly where we expected in FLC the utilization is slowing down due to the holidays and some major matters winding down and we had some offset from improvement in our health solution practice.
FLC adjusted segment EBITDA was 19.4 million or 16.1% of segment revenues compared to 17.6 million or 15.3% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
On a sequentially basis adjusted EBITDA fell 12.7% compared to 22.3 million of 18.3% taken revenue margin in Q3.
The sequential decline in adjusted segment EBITA was due to lower utilization higher bad debt expense compare to prior year quarter third quarter benefited from me recovery on a previous right off and that was partially again offset by improved margin and [indiscernible].
I have to mention FLC experienced the segments best full year results ever in 2014 a strong performance across the globe.
For the full year revenues increased 11.5% 483.4 million that compares to 433.6 last year and adjustments segment EBITA was 90.5 million that compares to 74.5 million in 2013.
A tremendous year but it leaves FLC with a tough comparison for 2015.
This year FLC will have to run hard to stay even as a very large engagements from last year continue to roll off emerging recovery in our health solutions work should help deliver moderate positive comparison for this reported segment in revenue and EBITA in 2015.
In addition we expect to continue to benefit from our investments in our global construction solutions practice.
Practice that grew revenues by 30% and nearly doubled EBITA in 2014.
Looking forward in FLC we're hoping for moderate growth with margins in the high teens consistent with most of last year.
FLC did have somewhat slow start in January which will likely put some pressure on first quarter volumes and margin.
In economic consulting revenues decreased 1.5% to 106.5 million in the quarter compared to 108.1 million in the prior year.
Revenues were down even more sequentially from 120.5 million in Q3.
Revenue increased 1.0 million year over year due to the acquisition of [PlatSparx] a small group of Houston based petroleum engineers with evaluation expertise who joined us in November.
Ex-acquisitions revenues declined organically by 2.5% that include in negative impact of 1% from FX on a sequential basis declines in the Antitrust litigation explain in the fourth quarter decline.
Largest driver was a significant drop off in large Antitrust deal activities as a number of significant matters wound upper pause in last two months in 2014.
Adjusted segment EBITA was 9.8 million or 9.2% of revenues compare to 22 million or 2.03% of revenues in the prior year quarter an 18.4 million or 15.3% of revenues in Q3.
Adjusted segment EBITA margin dropped significantly below our run rate due to a significant increase in the state income tax equalization obligation that I spoke about before and an increase in bad debt expense.
As I noted before the equalization program was changed in capital last year which was significantly reduced as going forward.
In Q1 and economic consulting we hope to see margins comparable to last year's first quarter and a contribution to the total year results comparable to last year's first quarter contribution.
The rest of the year we expect econ to be up year over year based both on core business and continued success in some of the areas and investment we pay like international arbitration.
Margin should recover to the mid teen levels we saw in the second and third quarter last year.
We have high single digit revenue growth year over year in the out quarter.
In the fourth quarter technology revenues increased 8.6% to 58.2 million in the quarter compare to 53.6 million in the prior year quarter and down 4.2 million from 62.4 in Q3.
We had expected pressure on revenues in tax due to the roll of large projects that we discussed during our last call.
But December revenues were a little below that expectations mostly as a result of lower headcount and a slightly smaller part due to a combination of higher vacation and lower utilization that was by far the smallest contributor to the revenue and profits shortfall in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted segment EBITA for the quarter was 13.3 million or 22.8% of segment revenue compared to 14.7 million or 27.4% of segment revenue in the prior year quarter and 17.8 million in 3Q 28.6% margin.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITA margin was due to a higher mix of lower margin services compellable and coupled with increased investments in business development marketing research and development.
As discussed in our Q3 earnings call investments in this business for 2014 were heavily weighted to the second half with more than half of the annualized 2014 investment occurring in the fourth quarter.
Our expectations for 2015 continue to reflect significant investments in the technology business.
We believe this is essential to continue to advance our strategic position in this business.
Again I'd like to note that 2014 was tax strongest revenue generating year ever.
Revenues increased almost 20% to 241.3 million for the full year compared to 202.7 million in the prior year.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was 63.6.
Looking forward to 2015 we acknowledge that this segment can and will produce volatile results.
This lumpiness has a number of causes for one we excel at executing large event driven matters than can produce major spikes in revenue and profit and these are great while they last will roll off.
Also as we’ve expanded and managed to review our margins in shift quarter-to-quarter as our revenue mix shifts unpredictably between higher and lower margin business.
First quarter in the technology segment will likely be down in revenue and profit versus last year with margin in the high teens.
We're looking for a return to positive revenue comparisons in margin similar to last year's levels which reflected higher investment spends in the balance of the year.
We're very pleased to announce the reseller arrangement we inked with IBM earlier this month.
This announcement is in line with our current go-to-market strategy and it further validates the strength of our Ringtail product which we continue to invest in.
This arrangement also aligned with our focus on enterprise clients as corporates continue to take on more of the purchasing decision in this business.
Our initial focus is on collaborating with IBM sales force on Ringtail as part of delivering this capability to the corporate market we're not counting on this deal to materially impact 2015 result.
Strategic Communications revenues decreased 1.2% to 46.3 million in the quarter compared to 46.9 million in the prior year quarter which included a 2.9% unfavorable impact from FX and was slightly lower compared to 46.6 million in Q3.
Excluding FX revenues versus the third quarter of last year were up 2.7% due to the project related success-fee that we got in EMEA.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was 7.4 million or 16% of segment revenues compared to 5.9 million or 12.6% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter and 6.6 million or 14.2% of segment revenues in Q3.
EBITDA benefited from our continuing cost reduction activities and in particular efforts to improving the mix of junior versus senior staff.
Looking forward Stratcom is off to a very good start in 2015 segment is executing well on their plan of focusing on profitable revenue and controlling cost.
Accordingly we expect first quarter revenue to be down single-digits year-over-year but profits should be up slightly in the first quarter.
Remember Stratcom's first quarter contribution to its total year results has always been small and we expect 2015 to be consistent with the 2014 contribution percentage.
First quarter EBITDA margin will likely be high single-digit as it was last year and return to mid-teens in second quarter and beyond.
We're also looking for revenue comparisons to turn positive in Stratcom in the last half of the year.
Before I go to the geographic results and I wanted to remind you that our first quarter in all of our segments typically has increased employee benefits cost for higher FICA and 401(NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) expenses as a result of our annual bonus payment that’s one of the reasons why this is historically our weakest quarter with lower margins.
Equity compensation expense is also higher in the first quarter due to some of the equity awards that are expensed up front if the recipient is retirement eligible or has met certain service requirements.
Turning to our geographies on Slide 7 28% of our revenues were from outside North America in the quarter.
That’s consistent with Q4 '13.
For the year 27.7% of the revenues were from outside North America.
I would like to highlight in particular the growth in EMEA where Q4 revenues increased 16.3% year-over-year.
This increase was led by a 60% year-over-year revenue increase in our corporate finance restructuring business which was the result of strong organic growth in our transaction advisory and tax practices in the region.
FLC also saw a 45.3% year-over-year revenue increase mainly due to accounting advisory and dispute.
For the year revenues in EMEA increased to 18.7% with revenue increases across all five of our business segments.
EMEA strength is particularly important given the contribution and improvement in that region to our 2015 outlook.
Counter to the growth at EMEA Asia-Pacific Q4 revenues declined 26.4% year-over-year primarily due to the softness discussed previously in this call related to our bankruptcy and restructuring business in Australia.
The year revenues in Asia-Pac declined 2.7% with year-over-year revenue decline in corporate finance restructuring being partially offset by increases in FLC economic consulting and strategic communications.
Latin America fourth quarter revenues were largely flat compared to last -- to the prior year quarter.
As this was due to an increase of 27.4% in FLC driven by investments we made last year in construction solutions but that was offset by revenue declines in corporate finance economic consulting and strategic communications.
For the year Latin American revenues increased almost 10% with particularly strong year-over-year revenue constitutions in this case from corporate finance restructuring.
As our overseas results become increasingly important to us it will continue to impact the volatility of our outcome some of which will come from the impact of foreign exchange and some of it will come from the mix of earnings by jurisdiction.
Lower tax rate of our key foreign countries versus the higher rate in U.S.
that means that we can hold a constant EBITDA on operations and yet still see some volatility at the bottom-line if our earnings mix shift significantly between the U.S.
and overseas.
One last modeling doubt in our budgeting we use 35% for our overall model tax rate and that’s what I suggest you use for your models but there of course will be volatility up or down around that.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our cash and cash equivalents where 284 million at quarter end net cash provided by operating activities was 115 million compared to 90 million in the prior year quarter.
In 2014 company spent almost 24 million on acquisition but the majority of that was connected to earn out payments from prior year deals.
DSOs were 97 at the end of December in line with 97 days the prior year quarter and down 10 days from September 2014.
Turning to Slide 9 in our outlook.
As you saw in our press release we held the pre-announced 2015 adjusted EPS range of between a $1.95 and 2.20 and our revenue expectation range for 2015 full year is between 1.8 billion and 1.9 billion.
We will work very hard to achieve these results but to reiterate our overwriting goals and they are in order of priority by 2016 we will move the company to a management business and financial models that incorporate ongoing investments delivered sustainable and organic growth.
2016 we will achieve EPS of $2.50 per share or more in 2015 we will achieve our guidance range.
We’re highly focused and all of those three goals but in that order.
I’ve been asked about capital management plans for 2015 and beyond; first and foremost if capital investment is needed to support our investment agenda that’s where our money will go.
However given the nature of our business as Steve says most of our investment is in EBITDA on the balance sheet.
In 2015 we will also consider reducing indebtedness but our plans are not cast in stone.
2015 and beyond we will likely return to share repurchase in the absent to investment needs for compelling strategic opportunities.
Our business plans does not call for acquisitions though of course that we’ll not as big great opportunity should have present itself our focus is on organic growth.
With that I’ll turn the call back to Steve for closing remarks before questions.
Thank you David.
Before we open for questions I want to say a few more comments which have the risk of some redundancy given David’s through remarks but I think there are some points that are worth underscoring.
First of all obviously Dave and I both share disappointment in some of the adjustments we need to make in the fourth quarter but just like David I just want to underscore the point it started with which is that shortfall in no way shakes our confidence and where we can get this company over the medium-term and in fact has not shaken our confidence and where we think we can get in 2015.
It was clear when we -- when I came here a year ago and as many of you said to me when I first came into the role the said of activities required to realize the full potential of this great company and other small list of activities and not a one-year activity.
We haven’t thought of it that way.
We’ve gotten enormous amount done in 2014 but that does not mean there is not a lot to do in 2015 and ’16 in each of our businesses and at the corporate level and not just to realize the targets we talked about at our Investor Day or today but it's more important to realize the fundamental underline potential of this company.
To realize the aspirations of incredibly dedicated people who work here what I feel good about is the fact that we are making progress and real progress.
And David highlighted some of those examples and let me highlight a few more here Investor Day last year a number of you noted that one of the keys going forward was to have corporate finance and restructuring start to contribute positively as opposed to being a drag on earnings some of you noted there has been a drag on EPS of 20 times to 30 times a share year-after-year.
And some of you said a little bit -- expect a little skepticism can you actually pull that off? We have a long way to go there is still lot of work to do but as David talked about we are making real progress.
Our non-distressed services in the U.S.
have shown enormous progress their percentage of revenue is up substantially.
The bold debts we made in Europe and transaction advisory and tax services it's too early to declare victory but as David mentioned those are growing substantially solid trajectory entering this year.
Our creditors rights group is something we don’t to talk about and typically the retail business also because that’s in our traditional old business but we’ve also been making investments in those businesses and the retail business those investments to focus has been key to all these great recent wins that you guys have talked about RadioShack Wet Seal yes it's Cache David.
But also in our creditor right business we’ve been continuing to focus in that area during the down turn at three great wins a number of great wins but three of the largest better rights awards in this past year have gone to all our group including Energy Future Holdings Teasers and [indiscernible].
So we clearly still have work to do everybody in the segment knows we have work to do but we are making progress.
In the same story could be said for all the business I'm not going go to the same level of detail.
But FLC which had a great year -- it's best year ever the team is not sitting still they're making further reinvestment in key areas including the construction solutions business that David talked about and other places where believe we can win.
The same is true for technology as those of who you are at legal Tech and saw and it's true in Econ in our industries and other segment.
Let me call out Stratcom because that was another business where a number of you who were candid with me expressed some concern when I joined the business.
We are seeing intangible real results from the change efforts led my management and the team there.
The stuff that most of you have noticed is the tangible cost reduction efforts which have shown up in the second half of the year but equally important that team is been putting together and is operating on tangible granular growth strategy that is focused on bets where believe we have the right to win.
And that is also joined beginning of results and have even a more powerful foundation for confidence going forward.
Look I don’t want to understate the work we have ahead this not a place where -- and I'm not sure ever in professional services firm you can put your feet up on the desk and play a victory.
There is no machine here that chunk out widgets and profits; there is a lot of work to be done a lot of change that we have to drive ahead.
But the bets we are making now the bets we are talking about every quarter in our strategy meeting.
Our bets that I’m excited about they are bets that build on the best of this company that build on the course strengths of the company.
The places where this company has a right to win where our client say we are excited to be working with you on.
I believe that focusing on those bets and making them boldly investing where we need to investing behind our professionals.
We are building a sustainable franchise with an underlying growth trend one that will support the earnings aspiration you all have for us and I have for us but also one that will support FTI's talented professionals make FTI -- continues to make FTI a firm that attracts a very best people and client.
With that let me open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Tobey Sommer SunTrust.
I was wondering -- just a couple questions on the economic consulting segment.
How do you feel like your market share is in the economic consulting area how do you feeling like that’s trending? I think our sense -- it can be very volatile quarter by quarter in the sense that you have a big thing that rolls often somebody else has want a big thing.
I think if you look over any extended period of time we have been gaining shares substantially in that business.
Originally primarily in the U.S but now both in the U.S.
and in Europe so I think that’s a long term trend that we have seen.
I couldn’t tell you what happened in the fourth quarter.
What is the backlog kind of retainer look like related to Anitrust work because you did cite some large project that I guess have either slowed or ended in the fourth quarter? But given all the transactions out in the news it would appear to me that you probably have some kind of backlog could you comment on that? Yes well given the sensitivity in some of that work we have to be fairly discrete about our backlog.
But I think the folks are feeling pretty optimistic about some of the activities that you're seeing out there and our ability to play meaningful role.
So again I would say that -- again we don’t necessarily have like committed set of hours that you're expecting through the balance of the year.
But in terms of the number of matters that have emerged or are emerging and the role that we expect to have them I think we're optimistic about the backlog in Antitrust.
We have actually wanted some very exciting things there the question is not only the -- of course the point about total commitment of ours is a real one.
But the other issues the timing in and the starts of those some of them have been laid up of into February-January so that none of those have really benefited Econ's early start to this year.
But I think as per the talk still in that group they're pretty bullish on what they're winning out there Tobey that’s the core question.
Just one follow up and then I'll get back in the queue.
When you're involved in a matter and you get kind of brought in because of your positioning in the economic consulting space do you often also capture much second request work as a result of that -- in the technology segment? Thanks.
So both as a result of that and independently.
We have a strong second request work in our technology booth independently because technology has done a lot of second request work and is seen as extremely capable and fast and moving on that but also sometimes joint with our economic consulting group.
And we will take our next question from Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Just beginning with economics I know that this was previous to your tenure but obviously you signed a new deal and the margins were a little bit lower.
How do you feel about that I mean how do you feel about the sort of fairness of that deal now and where can economic margins go overtime based on those new contracts that were signed a year ago? Thanks.
Paul anytime I can find people of the caliber that we have here are willing to work for a dollar a year I am signing them up.
So I haven't found that many folks like that but if you have folks to bring to my attention I am open to it.
I think it was obviously an expensive deal the people are very talented in that space I haven’t gone back and micro looked at that deal to say oh I would have changed this I would have changed that there is no use of that.
Truth is we're excited about the people we have there and that deal will be economically very attractive for this company so as long as we continue to grow that business in the way we have historically -- it looks a lot less attractive in a month were the revenue was down but that is not our long-term forecast for that business.
So I think our commitment is to grow that business behind those contracts and return to what has been historically a substantial contributor shareholders value and return that business to that overtime.
Does that help Paul? It does.
And I think you talked about high teens or David talked about high teens margins is that sort of the upper limit or it could? I think I said getting back to the margins that it was in for the latter of last year and the latter part of this year so I said that’s with mid-teens in the [indiscernible].
Just maybe let me speak one more on strategic how are you trying to reposition that what are areas are you investing in strategic communications? So look I think the strategy side of that we haven't been disclosed because it obviously has effects on hiring's and investments in certain areas.
But so I have to be at high level on that I mean we have obviously been a little more granular on some of the cost side.
But I think Paul I guess it's just in line with what you might expect which is that if you disaggregate our business we have places around the world where we're seen and sub-segments of that business where are seen as the leading folks or have a real credible shot at being the leading folks.
And the question we ask there is please can we grow that? For example energy public affairs in the U.S and globally what can we do to grow that so we ask those sorts of questions.
And then we have some places where we're weaker than we would like so we ask the questions do we see a credible way to strength that position where we do what do we need do.
And so it's that systematic process of asking questions that lead to quite specific sets of plans that are by sub-segment by geography which we put in place and then monitor quarterly -- in fact I am having a -- after this call while David is talking to all of you I am having four hour meeting with Stratcom to review some specific plans against that.
So I think I have to leave it at that high level but does that give you a feel? It does thank you.
And we will take our next question from Kevin McVeigh at Macquarie.
Hey can you give us a sense of how big Australia is today and what the FLC business restructured business grew without the Australian headwinds? I think David is looking up some answers.
I would say my answer is Australia right now is less big than I had hoped it would be -- quite in time Kevin but I think David will give you more granularities on that.
I had one other one just in terms of the items that caught us by surprise in Q4 is there any way to just frame that we have gotten it all at this point was it just a function of the year-end close kind of going through the first closure just any confidence that there is no other items that may kind of come out if you would? I am going to let David answer that go into the details of that but he is looking it up.
We will have to get back to you on the exact number on Australia what was the other question? David confidence that there aren't any other kind of unanticipated items if you would was it a function of just the year-end close or that we have all the tax adjustments and so on so forth it's in like there were a couple of items that maybe came in unexpected that we have captured them all and no other surprises after if you would.
Yes on Australia I think it's likely we’re talking about 3% to 5% of the whole company including all segments but we’ll get back to as more granular number.
So every quarter we do feel confidently that all the items in the fourth quarter absolutely some of those items were driven by unique events in the fourth quarter and could -- can and will there be unique events that give this continuous result in the future yes.
The question is can we do a better job of anticipating them and making sure that they are perfectly communicated.
So for example the largest one increase the evaluation allowance that we were not -- we were expecting a profitable fourth quarter in Australia that would have dealt with that issue and not put us in this position where we needed evaluation allowance.
So could we have a similar valuation allowance emerging some other taxable -- tax [penalty] or tax jurisdiction in the future absolutely; are we worried about one as we sit here today no; should we do a better job of forecasting and preparing for that in a sort of eventuality yes and we’ll be working on that.
The unexpected -- [equan] has its own story so then expected equalization expense we cap that program to eliminate that problem going forward.
Questions about severance that was a decision made that was good for the business and if that -- I think one of the things that we are committed to is to make decisions like that that are good for the business and will put us in the correct position going forward and if that causes us to miss or be at variance by a few pennies we will take those decisions obviously that was a small part of the $0.29 but that sort of volatility we will embrace if we have to keep positive our long-term future.
So I -- bottom-line is to the extent of volatility with us making decisions and not managing quarter-to-quarter or putting off important decisions in order to protect the quarter we will have that volatility but that can be managed and that will be small in scheme of thing but we have things like tax event yes and I frankly expect more tax volatility not valuation allowances but changes in the effect of tax rate as we get more of our income and profitability overseas which is certainly has not been a problem for FTI i.e.
growing profit but we see that going forward.
A long winded answer but the answer is yes and no I’ve certainly feel confident we captured everything we needed to.
The volatility had number of stories some we’ll do better with forecasting some we will do better with managing with business but some we will actually embrace it.
And then just real quick in terms of absolute dollars did FX impact to ’15 guidance from a revenue perspective? More than it has historically actually; again this is new for us.
Our team is actually quite surprised I think all things being equal the guidance could have been $0.5 to $0.10 higher if FX at all had been around back where it was six months ago.
We’ll take our next question from Robert Simmons with Janney.
Sitting in for Joe Foresi.
How do you think that the shifts in oil prices is going to impact these readings? Okay the subject that we’re talking about substantially here.
It has different effects on different businesses but I would say in general our business is benefitted from substantial market volatility we’ve substantial market volatility unfortunately it mean some companies who are in financial difficulty when then benefits our restructuring practices some of that sometimes will required need for prices communications or for advice on communication which benefits the communications business and we can also lead to mergers and acquisition sometimes which then effects some of our other businesses.
So we are obviously working on that pretty aggressively I mean all of our groups have reached out to contacts in those industries and are talking and we’ve had some too -- the oil volatility and we expect more going forward.
Besides just volatility that was higher -- is the oil prices generally going to be good thing or is that just the volatility going in that matters? Well I am not sure I haven’t really thought that through and I am not sure we have left we’re don’t have [communications] that have sat down and look through the correct order effects of lower oil prices through higher consumers and whether that means in other segments fewer people go bankrupt and stuff like that.
But I would say the volatility clearly creates changes in marketplace that drive demand for our services and I would say the drop to $50 in the near-term is a beneficial effect overall on our company.
Up next we got to Randle Reece Avondale Partners.
First of all if you look at your segment breakdown the unallocated corporate this quarter was 23.7 million.
And that was up from about 17 million in the previous quarter.
What was the change their? That was investments the biggest of which was our all SMD partners meeting which we held in November and that was expected.
Speaking of the partners meeting does that have any effect it all in your operating results this quarter? This is something you could torture the data either way.
You can obviously make the arguments that people taking a week of people’s time out of the market which in some cases it was a week and something those to three days has an effect and you say how can you not have an effect.
So I think you could say that what I think the interesting this is this is not your question we got 268 responses from our survey after it one person out of 268 thought it wasn’t work his time to go to the all SMD meeting.
I don’t know if you've been in professional services a long time Randy they're very few times you can get a professional services organization to that degree of unanimity.
They’re really scared of you? No that was an anonymous reply to the survey they were allow saying whatever they wanted.
But that still could be consistent with what we did here which people found the connections across the organization very powerful.
They thought it was both motivating but also very helpful for selling business going forward and finding linkage to the cost things.
So could be still consistent with a view that it had some effectiveness this quarter and we'll have a beneficial effect down the road.
But I don’t think either David or I want to say if it wasn’t for the SMD meeting the fourth quarter would have come in where we originally forecasted.
I don’t think we think it's the dominant cost does that helps Randy.
I understand that I know you anticipated the meeting beforehand.
Finally just looking across the business having been in for a year.
I was wondering if you have formulated any kind of view about what the most important driving trends in your end markets are right now.
The things that either presents your greatest growth opportunity or maybe increase risk.
Yes so we spend a lot time thinking about that I mean Paul Linton is in the room with me.
He is the head of Strategy and Transformation.
He kind of like to talk about it -- we do talk about that every quarter with the businesses.
Let me take you to the question slightly differently I think -- the issue here is I don’t see some market forces out there that are going to cause any of our businesses to implode nor do I see the market forces that we can sort of sit back and just say the tide will make us rise.
But what I do feel like we have in the every business.
In sub segments in every business and in parts in every geography not in every geography but in parts in every geography.
We have powerful positions that are under exploited that if we just focus on them and deepen our client relationships or extend our brand to people who don’t know what we did for X Y or Z case but should we find results.
And that’s a large amount of what we're doing.
I mean in Econ we are the leader in international arbitration.
Somebody in London realize we had only talk to I think 23% of the leading international arbitration attorneys in London.
Now we probably have talk more than any of our competitors but 23% leaves you a lot of room to grow.
Now there is an opportunity that international arbitration as a market will grow which we believe it will but actually by far the biggest opportunity is not waiting around for the market to grow but us to make sure that our message about why our core client see that they get better results hiring us is out there to more people.
And so that’s where we're driving it.
My goal for this company is to not have to stand up year after year and sort of blame bad results often on market conditions or you know [crow] that market conditions are good our goal and it doesn’t mean we won't be effected quarter by quarter is to actually make a company that can grow successfully over any extended period of time independent of market conditions and I think the conditions are right for that does that touch on your question? And we go next to Tim McHugh of William Blair &amp; Company.
On economics I guess just a come back to that I guess what gives you the confidence that the demand trends are going to rebound? I guess you talked about your monitoring the revenue trends from late Q4 and early Q1 but I think people have asked about the backlog but just given there is a not a ton of visibility I think you had talked about your guidance expecting them to get back to high single-digit growth by kind of after Q1.
What gives you the confidence around that I guess? I will give you two answers David can chime in if he has anything different.
One of them is just the fundamental capability and we're clearly the leaders in that practice and around the world.
Now that doesn't necessarily mean that if the markets go south in a hurry then you don't get affected but my experience of professional services is the leaders in businesses tend to gain share when markets go south.
And so even if it did I would suspect we would do better than the market.
The other issue is just actually the collection of anecdotes I have had as I’ve talked with John and some of the folks like Donald and Michelle in the business we are winning some of the major jobs that are you reading around in the world on the Wall Street Journal and have been in the last two months.
It's just some of them haven't started.
So I think we have more than just a general view that supports the sense that business has kind of rebounded.
It's taking a little longer than would you have liked this year.
And again to not to make reference to history to support but the Ecom gave us a little scare at the beginning of last year and also and came back quite nicely in the second and the third quarter so that combined with what we're hearing about their backlog give us -- we are not panicked.
This kind of December January effect seems to have been and that thing is becoming a yearly pattern but we've seen weakness in the beginning before.
Answering the question that we heard earlier I apologize for the delays we're segment oriented so we had to add up Australia in each of the different parts of the company and it's about 45 million in revenue last year.
Okay.
And maybe as long as you mentioned how much of that is restructuring I think that’s the key kind of piece? It's the Lion’s share of it.
And then on the corporate finance and restructuring how do we think about maybe not even --.
It’s not like we don't defend our colleagues down there we also have a growing and very nice -- small but growing and very nice Stratcom business down there.
On corporate finance and restructuring what's the goal for the margin as you start to get a rebound there I guess I am sure that the big piece as we think about your business covering.
It's a bit different mix than the past so if we're trying to understand what that can get back to? Yes let me give you a little bit of a high level thing while David's looking up some numbers which is I do think that as we have gotten more into adjacent businesses which I think we've been slower than we could have been but we're now moving forcefully into them like performance improvement.
We will not have the peak margins that we did back when we were purely a restructuring house in the middle of a restructuring boom.
I think those days are behind us but obviously we beat the margins in this business both by growing performance improvement to a more profitable business and by rebound and restructuring can go up and quite considerably from where they are.
That's a conceptual answer David I don't know if you want to give more specifics on that.
I think we were looking at that being around in the high teens this year consistent with and a little bit better than last year.
I guess and is the high teens where you would -- is that optimal for that business than given the mix or that is still --? If went to a heavy overweight distressed obviously that could go higher.
What's optimal is a really good question.
I mean we sometimes debate about wouldn't it be wonderful if -- with all bankruptcy all the time and the margins look like they did four or five years ago or five or six years ago.
But then you would be giving up the non-distressed franchises that we have worked so hard to build which are lower margin but nonetheless generate good profit and keep the segment engaged in good times as well as bad but of course that's reversed in that segment.
So I am not that very well couldn't prove to be optimal if we really achieve everything we want in terms of growing the non-distress business and that becomes a permanent and large portion of that business I don't think we planned it.
Let me maybe answer this in a different way.
I don’t think we lack ambition for that business.
If you remember at Investor Day if I get more questions on the aspirational targets for that business which if I recall correctly was a $100 million in EBITDA in 2016 and the reason was that lot of people were pointing to the fact that although we hadn't been north of that at one point in time we were down in the 60s in 2013 and predicting in 50s in 2014 which is where we came out.
So we clearly are committed to turning that around.
I just don’t like the focus on EBITDA dollars more than EBITDA percent because you get them by both growing top-line and bottom-line and because I do think we have to invest in adjacent spaces than we have to be willing to hit EBITDA dollars -- invest.
And so if you had only been focused on EBITDA percent we never have made these bets that we’re making in Europe and I think these bets in Europe are key to the turnaround we need to come up with other bets.
So hence you hear the squeamishness without sort of committing to EBITDA percent target but there is not a lot of squeamishness about the aggressiveness that we have to having that business player 2014 at the bottom in terms of EBITDA dollars and going up substantially from there does that help? We turn next to Jerry Herman of Stifel.
I know it's getting late just want to ask maybe one compound question if I can.
David I am wondering if you could give a little bit or would be willing to give a little bit more color around the first quarter you referenced Steven and David that there is some weakness in January and then some of the businesses you cited in expectation that they would strengthening as the year progresses.
But are you willing to maybe share some greater guidance on the first quarter? And then secondly I just want to be clear that your full year guidance and EPS does include the impact of that FX and I think you referenced that at whatever $0.05 to $0.10 per share? Yes sort of answered that backward the guidance does include the effects of FX and we recalculated that as recently as the end of January.
And though then the impact of that is kind of spread across there but probably was couple of pennies for first quarter.
The impact on the balance of the year again which combination of revenues and profit in which jurisdictions in which currencies but that would be depending on how you flex it while measuring it relative to -- I think our guidance would have been higher by $0.05 to $0.10 if we had particular configuration of revenues and currencies that was placed in mid fourth quarter.
with regards to quarterly guidance we’re not -- we’ve made decision we’re not doing quarterly guidance at this point but I think it's fair to say that first quarter is always generally been our weakest quarter seasonally that’s been our pattern and that’s what we’re expecting this year.
We are definitely monitoring -- I think we’ve called out the segments that we’re monitoring that had a flow out of the box January economics and technology and -- so we were definitely focused on them but they are working very hard and in economic especially very encouraging backlog developing.
And we did give the specific guidance segment-by-segment which I am happy to go over with you again in terms of margin and contribution in each segment for first quarter so happy to reiterate that for you.
And we’ll take our final question from Tobey Sommer of SunTrust.
Just one question what are your plans to grow the billable consultant headcount in 2015? Yes there are substantial plans to continue to grow those.
As I think I’ve mentioned earlier a key to organic growth is to actually best kind key positions and some of that is around -- a lot of that is around hiring into the right place.
We did have some success on that in 2014 in a number of areas; I mean if we look at FLC particularly even though we probably didn’t fully hit the targets that we had for FLC I think the headcount year-on-year is probably up close to 10% or maybe over 10%.
And we’re excited about that and that’s net obviously of people who you treat and some of the other segments had fair amount of success in the -- later in the year.
We have ongoing plans I mean that is just part of our business going forward and we -- what we have to do is the budget bringing in people ahead of demand not just waiting and reacting to demand because what the scoop is in professional services you react to the demand and then you're just pulling people off the street who you can get and you need to be proactive about that and that’s probably not a muscle that has had as much working here as it has been in other professional services firms of muscle or developing but it's a muscle we’re committed to develop.
So every year we are committed to budgeting in the budgets the additional span segment-by-segment and region-by-region to support the growth not only for that year because usually it's a cost of that year it's essential for the growth for the next year.
So that’s the qualitative answer do we have any specific numbers you want to share on that or not? We don’t share those numbers but the key part of our budgeting process that will be a backhaul.
So if you're not going to get specific numbers would it be fair to say that the growth in billable headcount will likely at least slightly exceed growth in revenue? Well I would say over on an extended period of time we would expect revenue to grow faster than billable headcount because we will overtime improve price realization and so forth.
Now in any short period of time as we’re doing catch-up headcount will grow faster than revenue in certain segments that will clearly be the case this year.
I haven’t done the calculation to look at that overall.
Yes for improving leverage obviously with lower price people it should keep up --.
Some segments we're really focusing on increasing the leverage.
So I would think on average this year the headcount probably goes up faster than revenue but that’s a guess I suppose -- I'm not looking at a sheet of paper to give that answer.
Does that give you a conceptual picture of what we're --? Yes it does thank you for your help.
Thanks to all of you guys for the support you've given over this past year and I really appreciate it.
Anything else Mollie.
Thank you everyone for joining and we'll talk to you next quarter.
And this does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I'll turn the call over to Mollie Hawkes Head of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's first quarter of 2015 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results and other matters.
For discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and forward-looking information in our most recent Form 10-K and in other filings filed with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speaks only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
Lastly there are two items that have been posted to our investor relations website this morning for your reference.
These include a quarterly earnings call presentation that we will refer to during this morning's call and an Excel and PDF of our historical financial and operating data which has been updated to include our first quarter of 2015 results.
With these formalities out of the way I am joined today by Steve Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Johnson our Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn our call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Gunby.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Mollie and welcome everyone to today's call.
I know many of you are interested in a detailed version of our first quarter results which David typically gives you.
So I'll turn the call over to him in a moment.
But maybe I can take a few moments upfront to frame the discussion and then I'll come back with David afterwards to open the floor for questions.
Our earnings of $0.57 a share in the first quarter is obviously a good number.
It outperformed our expectations and I suspect it outperformed the expectations of many of you.
What I would like to do however is avoid expressing delight or excitement about that number and on this call perhaps see if I can direct our attention elsewhere.
Everyone on this call knows how quarterly results in this industry can be affected by a lot of factors one-time charges or one-time benefits lumpiness in specific assignments timing of certain expenditures.
Last quarter I'm sure you'll recall we were negatively affected by some of those factors.
This quarter our results were positively affected by some one-time benefits and a slower ramp than we anticipated in investment spending which doesn't mean we're not going to do the investment spending.
It's a timing issue.
It just means that the investment is going to be back loaded.
So the $0.57 is a good number but I think it's not a number to get excited about.
It overstates the underlying core strength of the business just like last quarter's number understated it.
So I don't think the $0.57 a share by itself is a basis for excitement.
To me embedded in this quarter is news and activity that has both me and the professionals in our business excited.
We have teams that are doing a huge amount in every segment and I believe those efforts are changing the trajectory of our segments and of FTI.
Now that's a more qualitative statement and I think all of us on these calls like a little bit of numbers.
So let me do one statement about the numbers and then come back to try to make the qualitative statement a little bit more vivid.
So in terms of numbers though I don't get excited about the quarterly earnings because of the reasons I said.
I do want to underscore there is certainly nothing in this quarter that makes me less confident about the annual guidance we have given you of earnings between $1.95 and $2.20.
And as David will talk about we reaffirm that guidance for this year.
And probably most important nothing in this quarter makes me less confident of the aspiration that we have been talking about of $2.50 plus a share in 2016 and in turning FTI into a sustainable growth business.
Any given quarter can be off one way or the other.
But to me if we are setting a foundation if we do the efforts in the businesses to give the underlying businesses a sustainable growth trajectory then we are setting a foundation for the future.
And I believe within this quarter are signs that we are making that progress.
Most visibly this quarter you can see that in the numbers in Corporate Finance and Strategic Communications.
So let me focus my remarks particularly there.
But then I want to come back to some of the other segments because even though some of the efforts the teams are making there are less visible in the numbers I think they are important and they're meaningful.
In Corp Finance as you know we've talked a lot in the past about our non-distressed services.
We are growing a substantial non-distressed business and that is one of the thrusts we have and I want to come back to that.
This quarter showed progress not only there but also in our distressed businesses.
We showed a one-third sequential increase in our distressed revenues.
Some of that was due to market forces.
As we all know this market is very depressed and it still is depressed.
But in the first quarter it did bounce a little bit from the lowest levels that I think many of us have seen in many years.
So some of our progress is a reflection of the market.
On the other hand some of the progress in this quarter I believe is a reflection of the powerful set of initiatives that our professionals are taking to change the trajectory of the business.
We have not stood still in our businesses not on the non-distressed but – nor on the distressed.
For example as some of you know we've invested heavily in retail.
Bob Duffy our Segment Leader is also a very strong guy in retail.
And we have a team of people with Bob who are very powerful professionals in this business.
We decided even in the face of a weak market to reinvest behind that strength – behind that area where we have a right to win and because we also can attract terrific talent because of our current position and we added that talent in our retail business.
And I think it's not coincidental that in that business we've been winning a higher share of the retail opportunities than I believe we have ever won in the past; assignments like RadioShack but a whole lot of other ones that we've talked about.
And the sum of those activities was material during this quarter.
Similarly in the face of a very slow period we made sure we supported a core traditional distressed business a great business we have called Creditor Rights where we have a terrific competitive position.
We knew we have a right to win there and we continue to invest and support that team.
And even in the slow market there is some business and that strength of our position in that has allowed us to win what I believe are the two largest creditor rights jobs awarded in recent while Caesars Entertainment and Energy Future.
The investments in Europe we're making continue on pace and we're continuing to make progress there.
The financials in this quarter reflect the fact that those are on track that we still anticipate them being further ahead a year from now than they are now but versus where they were a year ago we're making major progress and that shows up in the numbers.
So the net of all of that in Corp Fin was that the adjusted EBITDA margin in this quarter went from a truly tough margin a year ago of under 12% to a 21% adjusted EBITDA margin in this quarter.
Now some of you know we've had higher margins in that at other points in this past and we certainly have aspirations for that.
I mean we have even – now we have many opportunities both in North America to grow strong business but also to address positions of weaknesses which we've talked about like Australia.
But this is the first quarter where we've reported adjusted EBITDA over 21% for something like a couple of years I believe.
And I think this is a sign that we are making real progress in that business.
The other point I want to underscore is that the team did this without cannibalizing our non-distressed businesses.
We are not in the non-distressed businesses just as a marker waiting for the distress to come back.
We have found places in non-distressed where we have a right to win where want to grow those businesses both when distressed business are good and distressed businesses are not good.
And we are committed to that.
We will flex some resources back and forth because that is doable across this business and enriches the experience for our professionals but we are not going to cannibalize our non-distressed businesses in order to support the distressed businesses and we didn't do that this quarter.
So even while responding to some of the urgent demands of our distressed services businesses we were able to grow the non-distressed services by double-digit year-over-year.
So I think we are making real progress in Corporate Finance.
We are not declaring victory.
We have so many opportunities ahead.
We have some areas we have to fix.
But we are making real progress.
And I hope you take away from this quarter the sign that our professionals are engaged not just in talk the sort of talk we shared at Investor Day but they are engaged in real actions actions not all of which will work but cumulatively are making a real difference.
Strategic Communications is another business where we talked a lot about at Investor Day and it's another business where the team is making real progress.
Again we are far from declaring victory but there was an impressive set of delivery on a number of initiatives over this last 12 months and in this quarter.
Over the past year our senior professionals in that business sat down looked at what they had and said I know some parts of the world don't believe in us as much as we believe in ourselves but we have real opportunities in different places here and we need to figure out how to demonstrate that to the world.
And they did a lot of work.
They saw places where our brand was underleveraged but where we have terrific people.
We have places where we had terrific people we were not supporting adequately and they committed to hiring behind those people.
And they looked at places where we had excess costs and said we need to figure out ways to fund the journey here and take costs out both in the segment and also pushing corporate where corporate costs were too high and on all these fronts the team has made progress.
This morning we reported adjusted EBITDA of 13.7% in that segment.
13.7% is not an extraordinarily good number.
It's not where we hope to have this business long-term but it is 700 basis points higher than a year ago.
That's the definition of what we're trying to do.
We're not trying to get instantaneously to perfect.
What we're trying to do is to have our businesses look at where we're strong and reinvest behind those positions look at where we're weak and figure out what to do with that and thereby make fundamental improvement in our business.
And I think the Strat Comm business deserves a lot of credit for having done that over the last year.
I've highlighted those two segments because this is where the progress is most visible in the external numbers.
David will give you a little more detail on those segments and others.
But let me also state that even though the progress is most visible externally in those two segments I believe our teams are engaged in similar levels of activity across the board.
In FLC you won't see a huge delta in the numbers versus last year.
If you recall in the first quarter we had said some extra extraordinarily large assignments last year.
We were basically sold out.
Since then FLC has invested heavily committed to reinvestment behind strong positions committed to hiring building up some other practices with a view that as the big jobs of the first half of 2014 runoff we're going to create other engines to drive growth.
The view we have here is that we will probably not get a lot of growth out of FLC this year but if we do the right things we will be setting that business up for another contribution of growth going forward and the teams there to work underway just creates confidence in that position.
Similarly embedded in the FLC results is a subset of FLC which is our health solutions business which had a troubled 2014.
Because of the strength of some of the underlying professionals we looked at that business and we said we shouldn't be cutting here we should be continuing to support that business and instead commit to major business development activity and have confidence in the team that if we invest behind them it will create the next generation of growth.
Those activities in 2014 have been rewarded by a rebound in the business in 2015.
In ECon and Technology it's a little harder to see the results of the investment in this quarter's results.
ECon clearly has had a slow start for the year and a slow fourth quarter but we also have great positions there.
And so we are focused on building those positions.
We are making good investments in terms of attracting the right people and reinvesting behind positions of strength.
We obviously need to turn that into share gains.
But I have confidence that John Klick and the team over the next quarters will do that.
In Technology it's a complicated story.
In some ways this is our hardest business.
As many of you know it's an incredibly lumpy business and we in particular because have high concentration ratios because we are not involved in the general commodity side of the business but some of the most fundamental pieces of work the stuff you read about on the front page of The Wall Street Journal.
That means we sometimes have to put scores and a times hundreds of people to work in a very short period of time to help law firms and corporate clients deal with major investigations or crisis.
And that means when the work is finished we have to readjust.
Typically we have found the next wave of work relatively quickly but it can be months in between.
This team if you look at the business I've been surprised to find this team in the face of those forces has done a remarkable job of having stability of earnings.
But at some point you're not going to have that and that is clearly a risk for us over the next couple of quarters for this business.
What is going on here is obviously not just an FTI story.
You can obviously see major impacts for other competitors in the industry.
What I want to underscore here is that I have confidence both in this business in the long-term and in the team here.
Data volumes are not shrinking.
The complexity of the world is not getting less.
The globalization and security requirements are not going away.
Those are the areas in which we are advantaged.
The biggest most complicated global jobs is a good long-term place to be and we are committed to that position and this business.
And I want to underscore that I believe we have the best management team in the business and we will continue even if we have a couple of slow quarters to make bold bets behind them.
In this introductory remarks what I've tried to do is take your attention away from the $0.57 a share which I think is a good number but overstates the underlying business.
And I'm trying to encourage you not to take any number in any quarter and multiply it by four.
But I do want to underscore that we think this is a good number for a different reason because it reflects solid change initiatives that our professionals are driving.
We know that not every initiative will work and not everyone will be on schedule but to the extent that our professionals drive these change efforts and actually have success on a great number of them it creates the foundation not only for the confidence we have in this year's numbers but the confidence we have in the 2016 aspirations and the confidence that we have in turning this company into a sustainable growth engine.
So with that let me turn this over to David to take you through the quarter in more detail.
Thanks Steve.
Turning to slide four in the deck that accompanies the call revenues for Q1 were $432.3 million up 1.6% from the prior year quarter and that 1.6% increase is net of the negative impact of foreign exchange translation on revenues which cut 2.6% from revenue growth.
That is we would have been up 4.2% year-over-year otherwise.
Revenues were up sequentially from Q4 2014 by almost the same amount.
They were up 1.7% and that's net of a 1.6% negative drag from FX translation in that three-month period.
Fully diluted GAAP EPS were $0.57 compared to $0.45 in the prior year quarter and $0.02 in Q4.
In this quarter first quarter 2015 there's no difference between fully diluted GAAP EPS and adjusted EPS which is also $0.57 and on an adjusted basis $0.57 compared to $0.41 a year ago and $0.04 in Q4.
Just as Steve did I want to caution you that $0.57 is not our new quarterly run rate for EPS.
In particular I'd like to highlight several items.
First we spent very little on corporate investments in the first quarter.
We have no precise quarterly budget for investments but arguably this lack of spending benefited our first quarter results by at least $0.10.
We hope and expect to spend that $0.10 plus additional dimes in later quarters so that $0.10 is not upside for the year or an indication that we are now at a higher earnings run rate.
It's just timing.
In addition to investment timing we also benefited from lumpy items in the first quarter compensation and benefits and that's not unusual in our business.
Those benefits aggregated to about $0.11 in the first quarter.
To give you a sense of the things that helped us first we saw improvement in healthcare costs for our U.S.
employees versus our expectations of continuing a trend we saw last year.
Accordingly we adjusted our estimated liability for medical claims in the quarter.
We also made some adjustments to the structure of some of our bonus plans that unexpectedly benefited earnings and we saw a slight net benefit from the reconciliation of year-end accruals to actual awards and payments made.
To give you a specific example we have a bonus plan that requires certain individuals to take part of their annual bonus in restricted stock.
However if you're retirement-eligible at the time of that award the stock vests immediately as opposed to over the three-year restricted period.
Because of that GAAP requires us to immediately expense 100% of the stock cost for retirement-eligible employees rather than spread that cost over three years.
And that 100% charge for folks who are retirement-eligible has always been in our first quarter results in past years and in our budgets.
This year in order to reduce our use of stock for compensation we offered a deferred cash alternative to people receiving restricted stock as part of their annual bonus.
However for technical reasons the cash deferral option couldn't have a retirement feature.
So if you took the new deferred cash option this year you couldn't accelerate by retiring and under GAAP we spread the cost over the three-year deferral period as opposed to taking it all upfront in the first quarter.
We didn't make this change in the program to benefit earnings but it did have that effect.
As I said all of these comp and benefit items aggregated to about $0.11.
The benefit is spread across all our segments mostly in the direct cost line.
We did not anticipate these benefits when we articulated our EBITDA margin guidance by segment for the first quarter and the benefits we saw in the first quarter shouldn't benefit segment EBITDA margins in the remaining three quarters.
So that's why we look at this as lumpy and not reflecting a change in the quarterly run rate just a one-time benefit for the first quarter.
So again in rough summary $0.20-plus should be adjusted.
Half is investments we hope to make in the remainder of the year.
That's no upside versus expectations just timing.
The other half that's associated with comp and benefits is upside versus our expectations but it's not reoccurring and doesn't reflect an increase in our quarterly run rate of profit.
So in summary with those adjustments this was a $0.35 to $0.40 quarter not a $0.55 to $0.60 quarter.
Our guidance for the year is unchanged at $1.95 to $2.20 and we'll continue to need to deliver some operational improvement in the latter part of the year to meet that guidance.
No change versus what we told you in February.
Nonetheless this is not the worst place for us to be after four months.
Finishing the slide adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $58.7 million or 13.6% of revenues compared to adjusted EBITDA of $51.2 million or 12% of revenues in first quarter 2014 and adjusted EBITDA sequentially was $36 million or 8.5% of revenues in Q4 2014.
So good comparison there also.
Turning to our segments on slide five as Steve said in Corp Finance/Restructuring we had a good performance with revenues increasing 13% year-over-year to $106.2 million compared to $94 million last year.
Revenues were also up sequentially 14.1% from Q4 with as Steve said higher demand for our distressed services in North America.
We are delighted to have achieved this level of revenues in Corporate Finance/Restructuring so early in the year.
To provide our outlook we hope to maintain quarterly revenues in CF at roughly this level in the second quarter and through the balance of the year.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was $22.5 million.
That's a margin of 21.2% of revenues compared to $11 million or 11.7% of revenues in the prior year quarter and $9.9 million or 10.6% of revenues in Q4.
To refresh our outlook this may be our high watermark for EBITDA margins for Corp Fin this year.
Nonetheless we currently see reaching high teens EBITDA margins in Q2 and also for the balance of the year.
This is driven by higher utilization that we expect in both North America and Europe Middle-East Africa.
We currently see no barrier to a strong year in this segment.
In February we told you that Corporate Finance/Restructuring was off to a solid start driven by North America.
And to elaborate on the drivers that Steve told you about we saw a substantial increase in distressed activity in first quarter versus fourth quarter and our results saw a significant lift from several very large distressed engagements including RadioShack and Caesars Entertainment also interim management assignments and a good share of the available activity in significant disrupted industries as Steve said such as energy and retail.
A lot of things went right for us in Q1 and this quarter's results may have been a short-term peak.
Our challenge this year will be to maintain this pace particularly in North America over the balance of 2015.
One source of support for that should be continued momentum for our investments in European tax and transaction advisory businesses which we are counting on to support the bottom line in the second half of the year in this segment.
Transaction advisory for private equity and corporate is on track and it's maintaining the pace we hoped for coming out of 2014.
European Tax Advisory is probably a quarter behind our expectations for growth but we continue to invest.
We expect our hiring and investment there will bear fruit over the balance of the year.
This positive momentum in Corp Fin in the first quarter was partially offset by continued softness in Australia.
We do not expect the Australian business to turn around in the near term and we have lowered our expectations and reduced Australia's expected contribution to the earnings guidance I have provided versus what we thought would be the case three months ago.
We remain committed to all of our Australian businesses but our Corporate Finance business has particular challenges to work through.
Turning to Forensic and Litigation Consulting or FLC we again reported record revenues of $123 million this quarter that's 1.5% compared to $121.4 million in the prior year quarter and up 1.8% sequentially from $121 million in Q4.
To refresh our outlook we hope to see slow and steady sequential revenue growth comparable to the growth we saw in the first quarter in the second and third quarters of 2015 in FLC.
FLC's adjusted segment EBITDA was $22.1 million producing a margin of 17.9% of segment revenues as compared to 26.5% (sic) [$26.5 million] or 21.8% in the prior year quarter.
On a sequential basis the quarter's $22.1 million adjusted EBITDA was up $2.1 million from Q4 and our 17.9% EBITDA margin was a small improvement over the 16% margin we recorded in Q4.
Despite the slow start that we had in FLC in January the business was able to rally in this quarter and deliver a sequential increase in EBITDA and in margins due to growth in our construction solutions global risks and investigations and in our disputes practices.
To refresh our outlook we hope to maintain EBITDA margins in FLC at the same high teens level in the second quarter and through the balance of the year.
Compared to Q4 we ended Q1 roughly about where we expected to be.
Both this quarter's results and our plans for 2015 reflect steady progress in replacing past revenues both from mortgage backed disputes that have been a strong contributor to results for several years in this segment and in the scheduled roll-off of the newer large global investigations that supported 2014's record growth.
As we told you in February FLC is running hard this year to stay ahead of tough comparisons but so far so good.
And as Steve mentioned an emerging recovery in health solutions work should help support our outlook in this segment for the balance of the year.
Unlike FLC Economic Consulting did not recover from its slow start in the first quarter.
First quarter revenues decreased 0.7% to $106 million compared to $106.9 million in the prior year quarter.
Revenues were boosted year-over-year by $2 million from the acquisition of Platt Sparks the group of Houston-based petroleum engineers with valuation expertise who joined us last November.
Without that organic revenues were roughly flat if you exclude the negative impact of 2.5% from FX translation.
Similarly if you look at it sequentially first quarter revenues were also mostly flat versus fourth quarter 2014.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $11.6 million or 10.9% of revenues that compares to $13 million or 12.2% of revenues in the prior year quarter and was up from $9.8 million or 9.2% margin in Q4.
The weakness was caused by lower demand for non-M&amp;A anti-trust and finance litigation.
That weakness was partially offset by a substantial increase in M&amp;A related services during the quarter and a more than 30% increase in international arbitration revenues versus prior year driven by our substantial investments in that area.
But the M&amp;A and international arbitration positives were not enough to produce net growth.
Looking ahead to our refreshed second quarter outlook the slow pace in North American non-M&amp;A litigation will likely continue into Q2.
As a result we will consider ourselves fortunate if we can deliver Q2 revenue in Econ that's flat with the second quarter revenue of last year.
We hope to see a slow recovery in margins.
We're targeting low teens margins in Q2 and hopefully we'll reach mid-teens EBITDA margins by the third quarter.
Of course we can always be surprised to the upside in this segment.
Our market position remains excellent particularly in the anti-trust and we believe we should benefit from increased activity in any of our core markets in this segment.
In the first quarter Technology revenues decreased 9% to $54.7 million compared to $60 million in the prior year quarter and sequentially it fell 6% from $58.2 million in Q4 2014.
The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a slowdown in some large complex cross-border global investigations work and lower consulting revenues.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was $10 million or 18.3% of segment revenues compared to $17.3 million or 29% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter and $13.3 million in Q4 that was almost a 23% margin.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to lower average price realization on consulting and services given our mix of engagements as well as increased investment in software R&amp;D global services delivery marketing and business development.
As discussed on our last two quarterly calls we expected pressure on revenues in Technology in 2015 and we noted our slow start in the first quarter.
The roll-off of large matters in this quarter was partially offset by an up-tick in second request activity during the quarter.
Our second request activity increased almost 10% compared to prior year period and more than doubled sequentially which aligns with the increase we saw in M&amp;A related services in our Economics segment.
Our expectations for 2015 continue to reflect significant investment which we believe is essential to continue to advance our strategic position in this business.
So looking forward we acknowledge that Technology can and will produce volatile results.
In our updated outlook we now expect full year segment EBITDA in Technology to be down versus 2014.
Based on our current pipeline we expect second quarter revenues to return to the dollar levels we achieved in the first three quarters of 2014.
We are looking for small positive year-over-year revenue comparisons and we also expect margins to return to the low to mid-20%s in the second and third quarters of 2015.
In Strategic Communications revenues decreased 2.5% to $42.1 million in the quarter compared to $43.2 million in the prior year quarter.
Now that included a 7% unfavorable impact from FX.
This is our segment that probably has the biggest FX impact.
Excluding FX revenues versus prior year were up 4.4% due to growth in project-based revenues in Europe and the Asia Pacific region.
On a sequential basis revenues were 9% lower compared to $46.3 million in Q4 and that again included a 3.8% unfavorable impact from FX.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $5.5 million or 13.7% of revenues compared to $2.7 million or 6.3% last year and $7.4 million or 16% margin in Q4.
Adjusted EBITDA benefited from all the things that Steve spoke about; improved mix of higher margin engagements reduced head count related costs all resulting from cost-saving activities and other initiatives that began in 2014.
Strategic Communications is off to a good start this year.
The segment is executing well on their plan of focusing on profitable revenue improved leverage and controlling cost.
Accordingly and as expected we reported low single-digit year-over-year revenue increase excluding the impact of FX and improved profitability.
In fact Strategic Communications reported stronger than expected revenues in the first quarter at least our expectations.
Historically Strat Comm's first quarter contribution to its total year results has always been smaller due to the impact of clients' budgeting cycles on the fees they earn from discretionary services.
First quarter adjusted segment EBITDA margin of 13.7% also outperformed our normal expectation for high single-digit adjusted EBITDA margin this quarter.
To refresh our outlook we expect EBITDA margins to be in the mid-teens and revenue comparisons to be down year-over-year in the second quarter and then have flat comparisons in the last half of 2015.
I won't spend a lot of time on the geographic breakdowns on slide six.
Suffice it to say North America remains our primary engine with Corporate Finance driving results in this quarter.
Our investments in Europe continue to come online in Q1 with positive contributions for Corp Fin Strategic Communications and Economics.
Asia remains weak driven largely by Australia and Latin America had mixed results with strength in FLC revenues offset by weakness elsewhere.
Turning to slide seven.
Our cash and cash equivalents were $225 million at quarter-end compared to $77 million with $20 million of short-term borrowings a year ago in March.
Net cash used by operating activities this quarter was $51 million compared to net cash used by operating activities of $111 million in the prior year.
During the quarter we did not make any acquisition related payments.
We will be discussing capital management strategies with our board in June but we continue to look at opportunities to reduce debt.
DSOs were 101 at the end of March compared to 106 prior year quarter and up 4 days from the end of the year.
In summary we are very pleased with the first quarter and our results are consistent with the risks and opportunities we identified at the beginning of the year.
The risks particularly in our Economic and Technology segments remain the same as we proceed through the second quarter.
Operating performance overall was good but not a blowout.
And the $0.57 headline number reflects lists from timing and non-reoccurring benefits.
We still have work to do to produce earnings in our guidance range but this is a good start.
With that I'll turn the call back to Steve for some closing remarks before we open up the call for questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Great.
Thanks David.
David I think we had enough introductory remarks.
I think why don't we go ahead and open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
I'll go first to Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
David or Steve I guess the question is about $0.10 or $0.11 you got in the first quarter from benefits.
Does that basically offset any incremental FX and that's why the guidance is unchanged? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No FX didn't really cost us very much.
It was about – well it had bigger revenue impact where we're pretty much naturally hedged.
So FX only probably cost us about a penny in the first quarter.
No I think the benefits is – that's just – the point is that wasn't expected it wasn't in our guidance nor will it be reoccurring in the second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> So if you got $0.10 from the benefits that you didn't expect what's going to cost you an extra $0.10 that you didn't change your guidance or is that just too precise to think about? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that's too precise to think about.
It's definitely a positive.
It makes us more comfortable that we will be able to deliver within the guidance range but we could easily see drags in that size unexpected in our operations over the balance of the year.
So yeah the $0.10 from benefits is a positive it's not timing but it's not reoccurring.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And Steve the delayed investment are you having any trouble hiring people? The labor market is pretty tight particularly for skilled people.
Is that an issue or no? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It was an issue last year particularly because we weren't geared up to focus on it.
During the course of last year we have geared up a lot of activity.
I would say particularly in our Corp Fin business we hadn't been hiring for a long time and we started to go after it and low and behold found to get the right people the people who can actually be accretive to our business doesn't just fall off trees you actually have to work.
And we hadn't done that sort of work for a while.
And I think that to some extent we have that across our segments.
I mean it hasn't been a focus for the last few years.
I think we have made a lot of progress in that in the second half of the year Holly working with each of the segment heads.
And I won't say it's not an issue but we have made material progress in attracting people over the last few months.
So I think we're making good progress there.
Inc.</span></strong> Steve my understanding is that this is the investment year and the payoff is in 2016.
The fact that we're sort of maybe a little bit – at least a quarter behind on the investment that doesn't change any plans for 2016 or how should we think about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It doesn't.
Look I think to some extent we could have probably done even a better job of budgeting.
The way the investments flow in this company it's kind of large – always be back-loaded partially because we don't have a great process to sort of launch the investments that we want to spend by January 1 of the year.
And then some of the things that we've done in the past are inherently fourth quarter activities.
Like last year we had an all SMB meeting which was well done towards the end of the year.
And so I think there is a couple of things in there that I wish we had gotten launched earlier.
But I would also say none of us were born yesterday.
You know there are going to be slippages in some of these things and you build that into your forecast for where you think you're going to take the business.
So a long way of saying yeah we're going to move on that stuff.
We're going to invest the money.
But no I'm not worried that the delays are going to compromise our aspirations for 2016 and beyond if I got your question right Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> That's it.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We'll go next to Tobey Sommer of SunTrust.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Tobey.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I wanted to ask a question about the change in stock for cash that you outlined in detail.
Is that a material change to the compensation from the revenue-generating consultant standpoint? Is that kind of material or was that kind of a technical issue which you wanted to explain for EPS purposes but not all that impactful from their vantage point? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
You're absolutely right.
It's the latter.
Yeah.
I only highlighted it because it's an example of how technical the things that benefited the $0.11 are and how you shouldn't look at those as reflecting a fundamental improvement in our run rate.
It gets no change in the economics delivered to the practitioners at all.
It's just a change in form and which was positively received.
It was a voluntary opportunity to do cash versus stock.
But you have to wait around for the cash just like you have to wait around for the stock.
We did it as part of our larger program to make more efficient use of shares for employee benefits programs in compensation which is part of our overall governance improvement program.
And so it was only material to explaining the $0.11 no impact on the economics delivered to out practitioners.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Are there any other changes to the compensation program for practitioners that has already been unveiled internally that you could discuss? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm sorry.
Was that a yes or a no? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean we're always continually tinkering.
But no this was a limited number of people had this stock feature.
We offered the option in the quarter but it had a several cents benefit unexpected for technical reasons.
But it's not material in any way to the economics people are getting.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I had a question for you about M&amp;A and second request.
The couple of high-profile deals have recently been presented some obstacles by regulators.
And I'm wondering if a more kind of stringent interpretation of anti-trust and a little more forceful regulator what that might do for the parts of your business that it touches? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean we obviously can never comment on particular matters but I would say that antitrust engagement and by parties on either side more discussion of antitrust and more interest in sharpening pencils and increasing the rigor of analysis can only be good for us.
That's where we are excellent.
So – and then we work – we don't just work for companies we work for regulators sometimes too.
So we don't see any hindrance to our practices from increased focus on anti-trust in fact probably it should be a positive.
Inc.</span></strong> My last question has to do with the global reach and positioning of your business in that regard.
Are you as strong in the European market to help with issues in Brussels and in other international geographies as you would like? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that may come as a surprise but we are actually stronger than people realize in that.
A few years ago we did a very good acquisition of a company called LECG in Europe.
There was a team of people there that we had seen as very comparable in quality to us we had courted for years and were not able to get them go over.
They were very loyal.
And then when LECG got into trouble they came over and that has bolstered our practice in ECon in Europe considerably.
We have a terrific group led by somebody who is on the Compass Lexecon side by somebody who I think is seens as one of the leading economists in Europe went by the name of Jorge Batista (48:18).
But he has a terrific team there and also group of international arbitration people some of whom are under our Compass Lexecon brand and some of us under FTI.
So we have a terrific position in Europe.
We are I believe the leaders in Europe in competition space and in most places in Europe and not just on in the UK but on the continent.
We also just for your information have made major investments behind a very good business we have in public affairs in Brussels.
And I think we have the leading or certainly a leading public affairs business in Brussels at this point.
That's one of the areas in our Strat Comm business that we've invested behind.
So I think some of our businesses we are really smaller than I would like by a long shot on the continent.
These I'd like to grow but we are very strong in those businesses and we look for – and they are actually growing.
Does that answer your question? Inc.</span></strong> It does.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We'll go next to Tim McHugh from William Blair &amp; Company.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Tim.
Yes thank you.
Hey good morning guys.
First on the Economics; I guess it's been a couple of quarters now.
So what do you point I mean do you still point to just I guess normal volatility in engagements as we talk about the economic business and I guess specifically obviously the non-M&amp;A antitrust.
I guess how do you reconcile to the disconnect between the M&amp;A part being strong and then I guess the non-M&amp;A anti-trust being weak for a little while now.
Is it tough times is there something with the market that I don't understand or with the people I guess what's your view of what's going on in there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think it's I would say probably the larger part is ebb and flow and then the smaller part is kind of short-term cyclical trends in volume.
So we had a very good book of non-M&amp;A anti-trust and finance litigation in past years.
Some of those matters rolled off or decreased in volume last year and particularly in the fourth quarter and have not picked back up again in volumes sufficient to give us a positive comparison.
It's not because we don't have work in those areas and we don't have strong positions but the particular portfolio we have is just down a bit.
That's hard to speculate or to prognosticate in terms of sub markets like that i.e.
finance litigation in the United States and its particular dynamic.
But there probably is some weakness in volume there though again I'm not an expert on that or have market statistics in front of me.
But I think it's just a combination of our particular book and the market they are participating in not replacing what we had in past years but we expect that our efforts there plus any amount of increase in volume in the overall market will benefit us.
But that's down sufficiently that it's not offset by the up that we are particularly in the M&amp;A related international arbitration.
That could easily have gone to a net increase with a little bit less drag in the one and even a little bit more ups in the other.
So unfortunate that they're net down but we're trying to accurately provide expectations in our guidance but we're not in any way dismayed by our performance and our presence in that market.
Okay.
And as we think about the Forensics and Technology segments on kind of a sequential basis across the next few quarters you've talked about some large projects rolling off in late 2014 I guess.
Is Q1 reflective of a lower level of work? In other words do we still have risk there or are you fighting a headwind sequentially from big projects rolling off or did we already feel that in the kind of segment results as we look at Q1? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No we're fighting that headwind all through 2015 on a year-over-year basis because the 2014 quarters all benefited from a couple of very large matters that's why second quarter and third quarter last year were so good.
So year-over-year yeah we're fighting that headwind every quarter.
Sequentially it's a little bit less; much of the water has already receded so to speak if you look at it sequentially.
So in terms of the day-to-day work that we're doing to replace that versus the book that we had three months before it's still work but it's not like the significant comparison drag you see if you look 12 months back.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Tim.
We'll go next to David Gold of Sidoti.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning David.
Hi good morning.
So just really a quick question and you've given a lot of detail which we appreciate.
Just curious Steve or David if you could speak a little bit more on I guess we're sort of the second period where the ramp-up in investments and hiring was maybe a little bit slower than we had expected.
And just you could just speak towards what one can do to spur that a little bit to push it along a little maybe as quickly as you were initially thinking.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Look I'll say David look what we're doing here at this company is trying to take a great company to the next generation of growth and what we have is a great set of practitioners.
Some of the processes that we're using though are not ones that have been employed.
We have not been a company that's been historically that focused on organic growth.
We've not been a company that has historically been surfacing ideas to invest EBITDA bubble them up sort through them and then be willing to hurt our quarterly earnings in order to invest for 2016 and 2017.
It's not sort of the reflex action.
We have some other great strengths where we've historically been done a lot of acquisitions and so forth.
But where we're heading right now some parts of where we're heading right now is different than what the organization is used to.
And so you put in place processes and you make progress and some places people – a year ago people looked skeptically and said really I can hire even though I don't have my fourth quarter EBITDA guaranteed? And some folks who are little slow at the management level to actually believe that that's where we're headed and we've gotten beyond that.
But then once you get beyond that then you go into the market and you find that – if you haven't been recruiting for a while you've lost – it takes you a while to get back in that.
And so we're still working through all that.
And then even in our corporate processes we probably could have anticipated the fact that we're not probably never going to have equal spend per quarter in the investment just because of the nature of some of the investments and some of these processes.
And we probably didn't build that into our own guidance internally as well as we can.
So I think we're learning here David but we're making progress.
This company – if you look at the amount of activity going on in a number of our businesses and the amount of hires in the first quarter and second quarter and then the second half of last year versus the beginning we're making real progress here.
And I think the gap between our aspirations and our reality is narrowing.
Does that give you a sense? It does.
It does.
I guess just part two though is when we think about folks who maybe weren't as big believers on the hiring or weren't as excited as we tried to get them how do we change that view? How do we get them to actually go out and do the hiring and not be as nervous about it and sort of move along in line with your vision? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We've made progress on it David.
I mean I think how do you do that in any company? It's a combination of – it's basically changing beliefs.
First of all discussing things to make sure you have a right vision for the company which was a lot of what we did last year and making sure we're aligned and then in the course of that beliefs change and people feel more comfortable moving ahead.
And I think we've done a fair amount of that and in some places you end up changing people.
We've done some of that.
So I think you know the answer.
I think we're moving on all those fronts.
And I think look we are in a different place today than we were – and I've been here now 15 months or whatever.
We're in a very different place than we were 15 months and we're moving.
Could we all have moved on some or a bunch of things three months or six months earlier? Always.
But you and I both know every change effort known to man that's true and what you do when you set targets for – three-year out targets for 2015 and 2016 is you anticipate that some of the things aren't going to move as fast.
If none of the things move as fast you're in trouble.
If some of the things don't move as fast and you just push on them a little harder you eventually get there and that's what we've been trying to do David.
Does that make sense? It sure does.
It sure does.
Perfect I appreciate it.
We'll go next to Jerry Herman of Stifel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Jerry.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Howdy.
Let me start if I can with sort of a high level elementary question because I really appreciate your commentary about the quarter and the influences on the quarter and the $0.57 and the notion that it's more like $0.35 to $0.40.
I just want to ensure that if that's true then that actually puts you sort of operationally below the level of a year ago.
And I just want to make sure that I'm not getting the wrong message there with regard to the underlying core business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think we – yeah if you have – I mean you do some crude math if you said it's a $0.40 quarter and you multiply that by four you get to $1.60 and you look at the $0.10 of comp and benefits as permanent that gets you to $1.70 so you would say okay that's not bad but it's a little running in place versus last year.
So they clearly need to continue the program of operational improvement that they espoused when they gave their guidance in February in order to get to their $1.95 to $2.20 and a little bit of it remains back loaded.
So yes you're absolutely right.
First quarter is we think in a number of fundamentals better than last year's first quarter but from an absolute earnings point of view it's a little bit better but not wildly better in order to get to our earnings guidance we need to continue to improve through the balance of the year.
I think we're on track for that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I know you guys have talked a lot about investments and I know that you've been asked in the past to quantify it.
And I'll try it again just in terms of how you think about quantifying the incremental investment from say the 2013 base to when it will normalize either in dollars or percentage or any other formulaic way to understand what you guys are trying to do with investment spend.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well versus the 2013 base that's – yeah we'll have to think about that.
Let me try another way to not answer you.
So we talked about that we could have done a little bit better in budgeting in first quarter for the impact of investments.
In hindsight it's actually not surprising at all we ended up where we are because all of our segments are investing.
They were extorted in making their 2015 budgets to invest and frankly the guidance we provided about their EBITDA margins throughout the year reflected a decent amount of investment.
And then we further made provision for corporate investments and for also accommodating unbudgeted and unexpected investments in our guidance.
So it's not surprising that first quarter should have less unexpected or unanticipated or newly thought up investments because there's a lot of investment going on and a lot of hiring going on.
But it's already inside the segments and it's already inside the guidance and it's already inside their budgets.
Then over the balance of the year new ideas and corporate initiatives come on in spend money.
So again that's kind of one of the reasons why we keep resisting quantifying it because we're really trying to – this is a change in mindset to businesses to say your EBITDA margin should always reflect a portion of investment and we want them to get away from thinking of that as something exceptional or part of a delta program versus the base.
It's just investing for the next year's earnings and the year after that it's got to just be part of job one and it isn't really a separate investment budget.
It's just part of their ongoing EBITDA margin.
I think we're close to that and going forward in 2016-2017 we'll probably need much less kind of corporate backstop for that.
It really will all be in the segments and adjusting their margins.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And if I [can sneak one more in.
Go ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No no.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> If I can sneak one more in for Steve.
Now that you're sort of almost halfway through the planning horizon with regard to the aspirational targets of 2016.
Can you talk about the segments and how they land relative to those aspirational targets above or below even in concept even qualitatively? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So you might go back to the Investor Day.
If you remember the Investor Day essentially we had given out aspirational targets that were to every segment not only financial targets but activities behind those targets that we believed were real stretch targets but achievable by every company every business if the things broke right.
But they were also were more than twice what was necessary or about twice what was necessary to actually hit our 2016 aspirational numbers.
I guess the most important point is I still think we're on track for 2016.
Now will the mix in 2016 be different than what you would have guessed at the Investor Day? I suspect it would be.
It may be less surprising to some people than others.
I mean I think there was real skepticism by some at the Investor Day around Corp Fin and Strat Comm and I think Strat Comm has surprised some folks.
I mean I just think we have a team there that is focused and making a difference.
And I think Corp Fin has shown a bit more ability to control its own destiny than many assumed.
And so I think we're clearly on track on those.
And then ECon is if you look at the numbers right now it's further away from the aspirational targets you shared.
But I think we are still targeting those same numbers for 2016 for all the businesses.
I mean we still have those discussions every quarter.
I mean I think our ECon business is terrific.
It's a matter of getting the next set of work in there and it's a matter of continuing to recruit the right people.
So I'm not ready to handicap that and say particular businesses won't hit them.
We know we won't hit them on all of them.
They're just by statistics we're not going to hit them on all of them nor do we need to.
But as of now we're still having positive conversations with every business.
Does that help Jerry? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah that helps.
Thanks guys.
I'll turn it over.
We'll go next to Randy Reece of Avondale Partners.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Randy how are you? Doing all right.
Not that long ago you put some formal structure around the HR function that probably hadn't been there in the past been a little more distributed.
And I'm wondering how much progress you have made reorganizing the recruiting process if there is any greater centralization involved or if you're still kind of thinking through what might be the optimal structure for a company like this.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah there's a lot of work being done Randy a huge amount of work and I think we have a lot of work ahead of us.
But there's been a major set of work upgrading of additions of talent lots of conversations that never happened before between the center and the businesses.
It is a very different place.
I would say it's still – if Holly were here I think she would say it's still very much a work in progress but I'd say the amount of progress we have made in whatever six months since Holly has joined has been extraordinary.
So work in progress but real progress made.
Does that help? Yes.
Do you see any changes in the supply of talent or the competitiveness for talent since you've been in charge of FTI? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There may be but to be honest it is a rounding error in terms of the quality of our efforts.
I mean yes we have great people but there are great people out in the world.
I mean we just need to have the right mechanisms to make sure we're identifying them and getting to know them.
When the talent out there in the world gets to know our professionals we have a very high success rate in recruiting.
But a huge amount of our recruiting historically has depended on that.
Somebody worked with somebody at the SEC or at the Justice Department or worked with them on a particular matter and they were so impressed with our people they said geez I didn't know your company what do you guys do? We recruit people.
We can do better than that.
So I'm not too worried about whether the markets' tightened out there.
What we need to do is upgrade our processes faster than the markets are tightening if they are and I think we can do that.
Does that help? Yes.
And there is increasing discussion from management over time compared with the past about your focus on revenue continuity and the handoff from project-to-project.
And has there been any real change or accomplishment yet in how you manage that process? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we have a number of initiatives underway which I'm not willing to go into all of them in any detail but a number of initiatives underway both within segments and cross segments on that.
I mean one of the things we've never had as a company is a key account management program.
So we have no systematic process not only to ensure continuity and follow-up but also to make sure that if we're incredibly well regarded in one geography there's a systematic process to introduce ourselves to another geography or another segment.
And we are not surprisingly experimenting with pilots to change that.
So there's a lot of work underway on that Randy.
And the thing I would say about that is those are fundamental changes that I think are critical and I talked a little bit about those in the Investor Day but I think those take a while to really translate into material profit dollars.
So I see those as major contributors to where we take the business between 2016 and 2021.
And we're not counting on huge tangible dollars from them from now to 2016.
but we're trying to learn how to do that effectively and show results so we can scale over time.
Does that help? That is what I expected.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
Are we done Mollie? Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you all for your attention and your support and your good questions.
And I hope you found this conversation useful and we look forward to staying in touch.
Thanks.
So that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I’ll turn the call over to Mollie Hawkes Head of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's second quarter 2015 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions related to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates medium growth targets future financial results and other matters.
For discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release we issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and forward-looking information in our most recent Form 10-K and in other filings filed with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speaks only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA margins adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
Lastly there are two items that have been posted to our investor relations website this morning for your reference.
These include a quarterly earnings call presentation that we will refer to during this morning's call and an Excel and PDF of our historical financial and operating data which has been updated to include our second quarter of 2015 results.
With these formalities out of the way I am joined today by Steve Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Johnson our Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I will turn our call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Gunby.
Thank you Mollie.
Let me join Mollie and David in welcoming everyone to today’s call.
As always I am going to do an introduction to the session here turn it over for David for some more details and then we’ll open the floor for questions.
This time I am going to be a little briefer so that we have plenty of time for questions.
The second quarter as a whole as you’ve already seen was a solid quarter it’s very much in line with where our expectations were and I think very much in line where most of your expectations were.
What I’d like to do is drive down a little bit below that.
As everyone on the call knows each of our businesses are big event businesses that have elements that are market driven that can be extremely volatile in any short period of time.
So in any quarter some of our businesses are going to perform better than expected and some of the businesses will perform worse.
And this quarter like every quarter that I know of has been no exception.
Some businesses performed better some performed worse business but importantly the results overall were very much in line with what we expected and I believe most of you.
So from my perspective this was a solid quarter.
As we’ve talked about in a number of calls my focus primarily is not on the quarterly earnings.
Given the volatile nature of the individual businesses quarterly earnings isn’t a clear measure of whether we’re making progress towards our ultimate goal.
The goal we need to be primarily focused on is whether we are building a business through the quarterly earnings turning the value -- turning this company into sustainable growth engine a company that you and our professionals can count on to grow year in and year out.
Maybe not quarter in and quarter out but year in and year out.
And so what is more exciting to me than the solid quarter is that yet again our team has made progress on a number of critical dimensions for that long-term journey.
David is going to describe some of that progress in the sections the segment by segment review we can answer any of your questions in Q&amp;A let me just highlight a couple of them.
We are making progress on a number of initiatives talked about in each of the segment discussions in prior calls.
Not on every initiative as we’ve discussed we will never be making progress at the pace we would like on every initiative but we don’t need to but we’re making progress on a lot of those initiatives and that is very gratifying and David I think you are going to talk about some of that going forward.
So let me focus on a different point here.
This quarter we are finally making progress on another key initiative which is to grow our headcount.
As I have talked about on some prior calls it took us a little while to get our headcount plans underway took a while to fully commit and then it takes a while to actually realize those headcount plans.
We can always hire people what we need to be hiring are the right sort of people the people who can leverage the tremendous professionals we have to help us grow our businesses.
That takes a lot of work and it’s work that we hadn’t been investing in adequately for a while.
So we’ve gotten that commitment and organization we’ve got the effort underway and finally in this quarter we began to see results.
Our total billable headcount is up by 7% this quarter year-over-year and that’s across the board some senior levels but importantly also some hiring of up and comers that have -- creates the vibrancy and the leverage and the future of our company.
There are variations segment-by-segment but all of the segments have made progress to that.
The third point I’d point is that this quarter we began to see the results of being thoughtful and prudent and disciplined with respect to our capital.
As we’ve talked about in prior conversations one of our initiatives was to upgrade our M&amp;A processes which we’ve done.
Again we are willing to do deals we are willing to do M&amp;A.
We hope we will be doing that going forward but it has to be in the right deals with a disciplined process that makes the probability of success strong.
We have put such a process in place and thus far most of the deals that have come in front of us have not met that screen.
And so as a consequence we’ve been disciplined with our cash.
And because we’ve been discipline with our cash that’s one reason we have cash that is available to use together with our credit facility to conceivably repurchase debt in the fourth quarter which is a key element of being -- supporting our earnings.
So for me again more important than the quarterly results is that we are driving the changes that can help to turn this company into one that realizes its potential to sustainable growth.
There is obviously a lot of work to do.
Some of our segments are ahead of schedule some of them are behind some of our regions are ahead of schedule some of them are behind some of our initiatives are ahead of schedule some of them behind.
David will highlight elements of that and there is obviously volatility in this business.
And so I am sure that on occasion over the next while we’ll disappoint on a different quarter on a given quarter.
But as I have said the experience we have to-date and what I see in this business leaves me with tremendous [Technical Difficulty].
And the unbelievable set of people we have the capabilities we have and the opportunities that we have and our ability and confidence in our ability to move this company forward by simply realizing the potential of that team.
And so with that let me turn this call over to David for more details on the quarter and then I’ll join David for Q&amp;A after his remarks.
David? Thanks Steve.
I will turn first to slide four.
Revenues for Q2 were $449 million down 1.1% from the prior year quarter.
That includes a negative FX impact which cut an estimated 3.1% from revenue growth.
That is we would have been otherwise up an estimated $9 million or 2% year-over-year and 1.5% of that growth is organic.
Revenues were up sequentially from first quarter 2015 by 3.9% and FX had no material impact on our sequential revenues or profit this quarter.
Fully diluted GAAP EPS were $0.52 compared to $0.42 last year.
EPS was increased $0.02 by the reversal of an acquisition-related contingent consideration liability.
The prior year quarter included a $0.14 special charge to eliminate our West Palm Beach Office and corporate plane lease.
Thus on an adjusted basis EPS was $0.50 compared to $0.55 a year ago and $0.50 in the first quarter this year.
Adjusted EBITDA was $55.5 million or 12.4% of revenues.
That compares to $59.9 million 13.2% of revenues in second quarter 2014 and $58.7 million 13.6% margin Q1 this year.
So turning to slide five and we’ll talk about the segments.
Corporate Finance revenues increased 4.9% to $109 million compared to $104 million last year and that was net of an estimated four point drag from FX.
Excluding the FX estimate revenue increased by $9.3 million or 8.9% and that was driven by higher demand for distressed and non-distressed service offerings in North America and higher demand for transaction and advisory services in Europe Middle East and Africa or EMEA which was partially offset by year-over-year decline in the Asia Pacific Restructuring practice.
Revenues were up sequentially 2.7% from Q1.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was $22 million or 20.2% of revenues compared to $19 million or 18.4% of revenues prior year quarter and $22.5 million or 21.2% of segment revenues Q1.
We were delighted to deliver a greater than 20 point margin for our second straight quarter in Corp.
Fin.
Again just as in first quarter this was driven by improved demand for distressed services.
Those revenues in North America were up double-digits year-over-year and also up from first quarter albeit at a slower sequential growth rate compared to the first quarter.
Again we saw strength in energy mining and mining services with matters like magnitation and in retail and consumer where wins included A&amp;P and Corporate Defense [ph].
We expect these sectors retail energy and mining to continue to provide more opportunities in the second half.
This quarter FTI was ranked in the top position by The Deal in Out-of-Court restructuring for the second consecutive quarter.
We continue to be pleased with our market position in distressed services.
Moreover we also remained very focused on building out our non-distressed offerings.
In the second quarter we benefited from this focus as North America non-distressed revenues also increased in the double-digits compared to prior year and high single-digit sequentially.
We also had continued momentum from investments in our European businesses that also supported second quarter results.
Transaction advisory services continued to gain traction in Europe and we expect that investment combined with our European tax practice to turn EBITDA positive in 2015.
I would also like to highlight the progress this segment is making in restoring headcount as Steve said and improving operating leverage.
During the quarter this hiring focus resulting in about a 9% year-over-year increase in billable headcount.
Those positive results were partially offset by softness in Asia Pacific largely Australia consistent with the last two quarters.
Australia continues to be impacted by top line pressure but we do expect that mining and mining services sectors will provide a few opportunities in the second half.
Overall we do not anticipate a significant improvement in this practice in the near-term.
To provide our outlook for the segment we expect to see continued demand for our both our distressed and non-distressed offerings throughout the remainder of the year and we anticipate revenues similar to first half levels with margins in the high teens in the third and the fourth quarter.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting or FLC we reported revenue of $126.1 million in the quarter.
That was an increase of 5.9% compared to $119 million in the prior year quarter and that includes a 1.9% estimated negative impact from FX.
Excluding that estimate the revenue increase was $9.4 million or 7.9% driven by higher demand for hospital operations revenue and success fees in health solutions and increased demand for our global constructing solutions and investigation services.
This was partially offset by declines in our disputes in Financial and Enterprise Data Analytics or FEDA practices.
Revenues increased 2.3% sequentially from $123.3 million in Q1.
FLC’s adjusted segment EBITDA was $20 million or 15.8% of segment revenues compared to $22.3 million or 18.7% in the prior year quarter.
On a sequential basis adjusted segment EBITDA was down $2.1 million from Q1.
The major drivers of the decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA and our margin were lower utilization as we saw some demand declines in certain practices like FEDA along with a continued increase in staffing to support our strategic growth initiatives.
Two a severance charge for the departure of an FMD and three to a lesser extent higher outside services and bad debt expense.
Again and worth noting FLC had the highest year-over-year increase in billable headcount up 110 professionals or 10% year-over-year.
This business like corporate finance restructuring was one of our segments that was most negatively impacted by leverage degradation in 2011 and 2012.
These are incredibly important investments.
As we told you in the beginning of the year FLC is running hard to stay ahead of tough comparisons to the high level of activity they saw in 2014.
They are still running hard but we now think they will likely not clear the 2014 bar.
In our outlook we expect to see revenue margin and EBITDA production similar to the first half of 2015 in FLC.
In particular we see revenues similar to the first quarter and we see margins similar to the second quarter of 2015 in both of third and the fourth quarter.
This is a step back from our last forecast when we expect FLC’s second half to be stronger than the first half of the year.
The step down in our outlook is driven by lowered second half revenue forecast that several practices have experienced greater difficulty than we had originally forecast in replacing revenue from large matters that particularly benefitted 2014.
Despite this we will continue to invest in headcount both junior and senior in the second half and we believe this incremental talent will be a very important contributor to results particularly as we enter 2016.
Second quarter Economic Consulting revenues declined 7.3% to $108.7 million compared to $117.2 million in prior year quarter.
That includes a 2.8% estimated negative FX impact but Econ also benefitted 1.8% year-over-year from an acquisition.
Excluding both Econ revenues declined organically $7.4 million or 6.3% year-over-year.
Sequentially revenues increased 2.5% from $106 million in Q1.
M&amp;A related anti-trust revenue continues at high levels.
Examples include Siemens $7.8 billion acquisition of Dresser-Rand and the Nokia Alcatel Lucent merger so down somewhat from first quarter.
Financial and breach of contract revenues were up sharply sequentially but still down from last year’s level.
International arbitration was also up both sequentially and year-over-year.
Adjusted segment EBITDA in the quarter was $15.3 million or 14.1% of revenues compared to $18 million or 15.4% of revenues in the prior year quarter and up from $11.6 million or 10.9% of revenues in Q1.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to lower utilization in the anti-trust and financial economics practices which was partially offset by higher realized bill rates and utilization in the segment’s energy services.
In our outlook we expect North America non-M&amp;A related finance and anti-trust litigation services to continue at similar levels for the remainder of the year although we do see some encouraging signs emerging towards the end of the year.
Based on what we could see our market share remains excellent particularly in M&amp;A related anti-trust.
We expect continued success in international arbitration in our energy business continues to grow.
We hope to see revenues in the third quarter growing to an absolute level similar to third quarter 2014 and then pulling back with seasonality in the fourth quarter again similar to 2014.
We are targeting EBITDA margins consistent with the second quarter levels that we reported today.
In the second quarter Technology segment revenues of $61.8 million increased 1.8% compared to $60.7 million in prior year quarter including a one point decrease estimate from FX.
Including that estimate revenue increased year-over-year $1.7 million or 2.8%.
Sequentially revenues increased 13.1% from $54.7 million in Q1.
The increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in M&amp;A related second request work where we saw revenues triple sequentially.
This strength was partially offset by a decline in cross border investigations and reduced pricing for certain services during the quarter.
Our market leadership and expertise in second request continues to be a differentiator with clients.
As most of you know second requests often arise on very short notice and are closed within a compressed timeframe.
Because our second quarter revenue was achieved without the same volume of complex lengthy global engagements that we experienced in 2014 we will have to continue to work hard to fill our second half pipeline and we’ll face tough comparisons versus the second half of 2014 as our second request engagements roll off.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $12.2 million or 19.7% of segment revenues compared to $15.1 million or 24.9% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to lower realized pricing for certain services investment in global personnel to support future growth opportunities and an increase in lower margin services as a percentage of total revenues.
Our expectations for 2015 continue to reflect significant investment in the Technology segment which we believe is essential to continue to advance our strategic position.
Our investments are targeted at three areas; one software innovation for our existing green tail [ph] offering as well as the development of new products targeting emerging client needs.
Two expanded business development to create an even deeper presence in the corporate and public sectors as complements to our long-term involvement with law firms.
And three increased scalability of our global capabilities to support our strategy of fulfilling our client’s global and data privacy requirements with local personnel and local infrastructure.
Over last 12 months these investments are at a level well above what we invested in the same prior year period.
Looking forward we acknowledge that this segment can and will produce volatile results.
In our outlook we continue to expect full year segment EBITDA in Technology to be down versus 2014.
Based on the current pipeline we expect third quarter revenues to be in the range we achieved in the first three quarters of 2014 and margins to be in the low to mid-20s due to adjustments in mix.
While we are working hard to deliver fourth quarter performance at a similar level to third quarter we currently have less visibility into the fourth quarter than we might like and would not count on that in your modeled expectations.
In Strategic Communications second quarter revenues decreased 18.6% to $43.4 million compared to $53.3 million in the prior year quarter.
Now that included an estimated 7.3% unfavorable impact from FX.
Excluding FX revenues decreased or 11.3%.
Now of that $6 million the majority of the decrease $4.3 million or eight points was a result of lower pass-through income.
The remaining $1.7 million in revenues was largely due to lower project based revenues in North America and EMEA and lower retainer based revenues in North America.
Our North American business which has a large energy practice was negatively impacted year-over-year by client reactions to low oil prices which has weakened demand in the energy industry for some of our more discretionary services.
On a sequential basis revenues were 3% higher compared to $42.1 million in Q1.
I know that many of you have expected significantly higher revenues in Strat Comm.
In our view this is not a miss.
We are transitioning to a higher margin model in this segment and we have consciously sought to eliminate less profitable revenue.
Combined with the impacts of FX and changes in pass-through revenue which has a very low or no contribution to profits the revenue change in this quarter is small and is in line with our expectations.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $5.6 million or 13% of segment revenues compared to $5.8 million or 10.9% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter and $5.8 million or 13.7% of segment revenues in Q1.
The increase in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was driven by improved revenue mix and lower pass-through income.
Margins also improved year-over-year from reduced headcount and related cost savings activities initiated in 2014 which was partially offset by higher bad debt.
In our outlook we expect revenues in the second half of the year to be at the same levels of the second half of 2014 and EBITDA margins to be in the mix to high teens.
As usual I won’t spend a lot of time on the geographic break downs on slide six.
Suffice to say North America remains our primary engine with corporate finance driving results again this quarter.
We are beginning to see our investments in Europe bear fruit with positive contributions from Corp.
Fin FLC Technology and Econ.
Asia Pacific remains week driven largely by Australia and Latin America had mixed results with strength in FLC revenues offset by weakness elsewhere.
Turning to slide seven our cash and cash equivalents were $240 million at quarter end compared to $94 million at June 30 last year.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the quarter was $20.6 million compared to net cash last year of $33.7 million.
DSOs were 104 at the end of June compared to 108 days in the prior year quarter and up 3 days from March 2015.
Turning to our outlook commentary for 2015 now that we are half way through the year we are adjusting our prior expectations for fiscal year ‘15 revenues from the range we targeted in February of between $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion to a new range of between $1.75 billion and $1.85 billion.
There are a few key drivers of this change.
We’ve adjusted back our outlook for revenue and FLC in Economic Consulting and Technology’s pipeline is uncertain.
As you know Technology is a lumpy business and during the quarter the 13.1% sequential increase in revenues was supported by increased M&amp;A related second request activity.
While our Tech group has always been successful with replacing large projects at this point in time our limited visibility into the fourth quarter coupled with the lack of large cross border investigations leaves us with some caution about second half outlook.
Similarly we are narrowing our adjusted EPS range to between $1.95 and $2.15.
I will give you some background on our thinking.
Last month we amended and extended our credit facility.
As part of this announcement of that deal we spoke to our intentions to retire some of our fixed rate debt in line with the capital allocation strategy I discussed on our last earnings call.
In our press release we stated our intention to on or before October 1 2015 subject to market conditions and other factors to retire $400 million of our 6.75 notes due 2020 funded by a combination of approximately $275 million of borrowings under the new facility and approximately $140 million of cash.
We estimate that this will benefit our fourth quarter adjusted EPS by about $0.08.
And as a reminder we will have a onetime expense for the early retirement of 6.75 notes of approximately $19 million.
We exclude this type of non-recurring expense from adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
So taking into account the $0.08 anticipated benefit in the fourth quarter why are we not increasing our outlook but instead taking $0.05 off the top of the range? First our 2015 expectations for FLC Econ and Technology are lower compared to our views at the beginning of the year.
Second fourth quarter is one of the most difficult for us to predict particularly in Tech.
So while we would like the $0.08 to be additive it’s more likely than not that it will cover fourth quarter risk.
Third we are not backing away from our commitment to invest in the business and our investments will fall more heavily in the second half.
In addition our fourth quarter outlook also includes what will now be a recurring all FMD [ph] meeting for our 400 plus senior officers similar to the meeting we held last November.
That meeting was extremely successful.
And we believe this is an investment we should regularly make.
Consistent with last year we anticipate that direct cost alone could be approximately $0.07 per share.
So this expense was always contemplated in our budget.
So our unallocated corporate expense in the third quarter should be similar to levels in fourth quarter of last year and fourth quarter should be $0.07 higher than that.
Finally we’ve also been asked how to think about the benefit of the refinancing to 2016 earnings which we estimate will be a further improvement of $0.17 or more again depending on your view of LIBOR or $0.25 if you started with the base assumption that we otherwise wouldn’t retire debt and not make any use of accumulated cash.
When we set the goal of $2.50 per share or more for 2016 we created a set of ranges describing what we thought each of our segments might be able to do if focused on investing in organic growth.
We knew not all of them would achieve their aspirations and we also knew the enterprise had other assets principally its cash flow that also supported our confidence that we could do at least $2.50.
We are not ready today to predict where each segment will be in 2016.
We usually speak to our new annual outlook in February.
However we do know that with the benefit of refinancing added to our strategies for organic growth we have an additional cushion to help us reach the $2.50 EPS threshold giving us additional confidence that we can meet or exceed that goal.
With that we will now open up the call for your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions].
And we’ll first go to Randy Reece with Avondale Partners.
Good morning.
Good morning Randy.
I was first of all wondering about your commentary on the fourth quarter.
Is that influenced at all by your experience with the fourth quarter of last year? Well it’s the only fourth quarter I have had here.
So yeah I guess it matters and after the end of the year with a fair amount of volatility based on how people are doing versus their goals whether they would be litigators whether they’d be regulators whether they’d be corporations.
So for the experts who have to respond to their requirement sometimes unexpectedly you can have a lot of volatility on whether things are powering through to December 31st with everybody going full speed as opposed to people finishing their objectives late November early December.
So that does create some volatility for a reactive expert firm like us.
That was kind of my read of what you were saying.
The changes in guidance obviously you don’t revisit annual guidance after the first quarter.
I am wondering how much of your outlook changed between the first quarter conference call and now versus was just of a steady progression since you originally gave the annual guidance? Well I think there was we definitely had changes in mix of expectations between the full year guidance and the first year guidance and I think that was reflected in some changes in terms of the revenue and margin outlooks for each individual business but I would say the material change between where we were at last quarter and where we are today is primarily in the FLC segment.
Some incremental weakness in Economics and Technology but I think within the range of risks that we articulated before.
So the particular change in our outlook is that while we think the FLC segment is making tremendous progress is investing well and is on an excellent organic growth trend they were hoping and we were hoping that they would have more success in replacing the second half revenue last year that came from some of their large matters.
And as those pull back as those have pulled back over the course of the first half I think they are not going to be quite as successful in replacement.
But the underlying investment in growth trend we think continues to be good.
All right thank you very much.
We will go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Good morning Tobey.
Good morning.
A question for you about the billable headcount growth and that endeavor to kind of revive the organic growth engine what sort of growth on an annualized basis would you have in mind even if it’s a range and so far how does the take-up and uptick in productivity feel to you broadly not talking about any specific segment? Yeah Tobey thanks very much.
That’s a very good question.
I don’t think we have settled on a long-term goal for headcount growth.
I mean a lot of what we’ve been focused on is rebuilding the pyramids that shrunk over a number of years and so what we’ve committed to this year is pretty clear and our plan sort of going into next year are clear.
I think it’s a good question what the long-term goals are.
I could imagine they are not far from what we are doing right now but I think we as a management team have to talk about that and settle on that as we go into our longer term planning next year.
But I think this quarter 7% year-on-year is not a crazy number for us to have in our minds as we’re going into the next while.
So that’s at least maybe an interim answer for you I mean the long-term 2016 to 2021 we need to be thinking about as a team.
But I think we have substantial ambitions to be a growth company we have a right to be a growth company and if we are not going to rely on acquisition as the primary driver of that all great professional firms that are not relying on acquisitions grow headcount substantially.
Some of them grow them 5% a year some of them grow 12% a year.
Growing 7% a year seems well within that range.
So I don’t think it’s a crazy number but we haven’t settled on a long-term number.
With respect to the productivity it’s an obvious and important question.
The truth is when you start adding headcount in general your productivity goes down because you don’t -- the new people don’t come in and instantaneously hit the ground running as fast as the old folks were.
And that’s one of the reasons why firms don’t do it because if you were to manage next quarter you don’t add it.
And we could have -- FLC didn’t need the new headcount for this quarter.
What FLC needs the headcount is to build its pyramid and build its long-term strategy and that’s what we are committed to.
The good news in professional services is it doesn’t take five years for people to become productive depending on the tenure of people it can be anywhere from six to nine months to 12 to 24 months to become productive.
But right now we are making a conscious investment and we think that’s part of the reason to be bullish about where we can be in ‘16 and ‘17 as these people become productive it’s going to help our business.
Does that answer your question Tobey or help? It does.
It does help.
And then two follow-ups.
If I were to think about the margins that the company is delivering now how much are those investments in headcount weighing on the margin and relative to the 7% overall headcount increase how would you characterize the rate of growth among senior revenue generators versus the base of the pyramid? Is it comparable or is there a different rate of growth depending on which aspect of the pyramid we’re talking about? Let take at the beginning and see if David has more to add.
Look I think the question of how much does it weigh on margins depends on what your base line is right.
Let me pick on FLC for a second.
If you use last year as a base line then man it’s weighing on margins right.
Our revenue is not up and our headcount is.
Headcount costs you money that weighs on margins.
But if you recall our conversation last year on FLC what we said was that actually we were short on headcount.
We were running at unsustainably high levels of utilization last year with no capacity to grow the business because we were short on headcount.
And so if you measure against that base line of course it weighs on it.
If you are saying on a sustainable basis am I willing to have a lower margin you can’t run at that margin all the time which is what we had last year and you can’t grow from there.
So it’s not a shareholder accretive level of utilization.
So we are willing to take lower utilizations than that as long as we then turn the headcount growth overtime into productivity and revenue growth and EBITDA growth and that’s what we are planning to do.
So that’s at least a partial answer.
David anything you want to add to that? Well on the other question we don’t have the breakout by level in front of us but since our goal is to increase leverage which by definition requires the growth at the top to be slower than the top at the bottom and almost certain that with rare exception that the data would show that we are growing junior headcount faster than senior headcount.
The only exception would be a place where we are just starting our practice and we might hire one or two senior people then they build out their team.
Overall I think that’s right.
Okay.
Just a quick question.
You mentioned kind of M&amp;A in your prepared remarks yet establishing the organic growth is the first priority.
Is there any shift to the timing of your willingness to look at M&amp;A or was that just a reminder that eventually you might do a deal? No shift at all Tobey.
We have been looking at deals and have been since the day I joined and since before.
We are willing to look at deals.
What is different perhaps is the level of discipline that we are looking at those deals with and so far ones really haven’t met the screen.
But we are still in a situation that if we could do the sort of transformative fundamental deals that created this company or in certain cases really substantially augmented with a set of people who are committed to staying here and building the business we would do those deals.
It’s just that we’ve put in place a more disciplined process in a frothy market we’ve not found ones that meet our not only our financial hurdles but our hurdles about attracting people who want to be here to build the business for the long-term as opposed to short-term monetization objectives and so that’s why we’ve generated cash.
Does that help? It does thank you very much.
We’ll go next to Joe Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Hi.
I had just a couple questions here just to start with the headcount additions.
Where particularly are you finding the talent that you’re looking for and usually in these businesses you add headcount in anticipation of revenue growth.
Maybe you could just point us to what area you think might be associated with the headcount ramps? Yeah I will take it.
Where do we find them it’s totally lots of different places and Holly Paul is working heavily with the various segments to make sure we’re identifying all the sources of talent and some of it is entry level headcount which is pretty straight forward.
You hire those on campuses.
But it’s also a lot of laterals hired headcount from other firms strong people from other firms who are attracted to the entrepreneurial nature of our firm has been a great great set of additions at the mid-levels.
It’s been a great way to hire what we call senior consultants and Directors and Senior Directors and Managing Directors.
We’ve also hired some laterally at the SMD level although as David pointed out that’s proportionately less than more junior ranks.
So there is a lot of different sources.
I am not sure I can point to one and then obviously varies by segment because the types of people we hire are different.
In one segment you hire economists in other segments you are hiring accountants in other segments you are hiring lawyers and so forth.
And then by geography the pools we use in Hong Kong are obviously different than the pools we use in London.
I forgot the second part of your question Joe.
Yeah it was just that usually the headcount is associated with some expectation on either revenue ramp or those people becoming productive and I think you hit some of your earlier comments in producing revenues themselves.
So I am just wondering what you’re seeing out there for catalysts that could drive the numbers a little bit higher? That’s a good question I think it really ties to the bets that we’ve talked about in other calls and David briefly alluded to.
So and even in a segment for example that has shrunk headcount year-on-year Strat Comm we got out of some businesses that were very low margin but we have bets that we believe in where we believe we have the right to win in public affair in our energy business and so forth.
So where we have talented groups of people where we think we have a right to win where the market has shown us that we can grow we add headcount in those areas in anticipation of growth.
And as somebody asked on a prior question the initial add to those headcounts probably drives down productivity.
But the theory is that this will be the engines that support our growth in ‘16 and ‘17.
So you can look across all the segments with that lens.
We’ve talked about in FLC the strength of some of our positions and investigations and in construction.
So we are making bets behind those.
In Corp.
Fin we’ve talked about distressed services where we have a right to win even in down market like retail but also non-distressed services like the Office of the CFO practice we have where we are having success in the marketplace.
So what we’ve asked every segment to do in every region is to identify the areas where they feel we have a right to win and then we agreed as a management team that we are going to hire behind those places right to win in anticipation of demand knowing that some places it will take us longer than we want for the demand to come here.
But that’s part of what you do to create a sustainable growth engine.
Joe did that help? Yeah I think you’re getting to the essence of the question.
I guess as you look forward -- and I will just end with this question as you look forward through -- as you look back at history one of the things that have driven revenues in this particular business has been restructuring or downticks in bankruptcy.
Clearly you’re making progress to sort of get away from those key drivers but maybe you could just line up what you’re seeing in those individual businesses two or three that you think may be the largest contributor to growth based on the investments that you're making at this point? So I am going to resist the two to three because it’s a little bit like I guess there aren’t too many families with 36 children but identifying your three favorite children if you had 36 children would be a recipe to get the other 33 to feel like they are not loved do you understand what I am saying.
I mean but that’s a bit of a joke but it’s true.
The truth is that organic growth is not a two thing initiative.
If you want to buy something buying General Motors would be one of the two strategic thrusts of the company if we get it.
Because it will be so big it would all absorbing.
When you are talking about organic what you are asking for is professionals to look to where they have the right to win and say where do I think investment can help me drive that business.
So it’s not even international arbitration.
It’s international arbitration in London investing behind that where we already have a strong position and then it’s creating an international arbitration practice in Washington where we don’t have one.
It’s those series of bets that we have been identifying and that we have a collective set of I don’t know if it’s 30 but it’s probably not far from that and what we do is we make the bets and we monitor them quarterly on how they are going and seeing and how they are going.
It’s the cumulative effect of those that is driving and what we have to do is also replenish those quarter-after-quarter-after-quarter and add to them.
So we actually have 33 children that we all like and some of them are going to grow faster than others and then well I don’t know how to continue this metaphor.
So I will drop the metaphor.
We are not going to prune children but we’re going to -- we’re pruning bets as we need to and redouble down on other bets -- on certain bets and do other ones.
But it’s a lot of bets that drive the growth not individual two big ones.
Does that help Joe? It does.
Just to finish the thought that with your 33 children are they correlated to one type of movement in the economy like historically when things have gone poor the company would do very well or are they going to be sort of non-cyclical? How do you think about because as analysts we’re trying to anchor that with some catalyst that we could tie to that portfolio.
Well let me just say I think they will be volatile but I don’t think they will be cyclical.
So let me just make the distinction.
I mean any one of our businesses can be volatile because they are tied to big events but what we are doing is not tied to a particular economy cycle collectively.
I would say collectively what we are doing in certain of our businesses is broadening their footprint.
So Corp Fin has a shot of succeeding even if the bankruptcy markets are down.
And I think what we’re doing in Strat Comm is allowing it to succeed even if some of the financial communications businesses are down.
So I would say we are not -- we’re probably on average lessoning the cyclicality of it but the individual bets in themselves are volatile.
Cumulatively we hope they somewhat weigh off each other and allow for a sustainable growth trajectory.
Does that help? It does.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to David Gold with Sidoti.
Hi good morning.
Good morning David.
Just if I want to build a little bit one of the things that you’ve spoken about over time and referenced through the many investments that you’re making and bets if you will across the board.
So was curious at this point if you can give a little bit of color maybe on a couple of the ones that have worked and maybe on a couple of the ones that haven’t worked that you’ve decided to discontinue.
Just so we can get a better sense of maybe what these bets look like? I will give you a flavor.
We haven’t had any crash and burn at this point so that we’ve had to fully pull the plug on that I can think of at least on any of those.
There are some that we are monitoring closely at this point and I wouldn’t -- so when we will.
But there are obviously differences.
I mean if you look at some of bets we’ve talked about in Corp Fin we said we were going to invest behind some core positions which we thought were terrific like in our TMT practice which is both the restructuring practice but also a kind of performance improvement business.
And we’ve added headcount there.
I think they might be up 30% in headcount year-on-year or least will be by the end of the third quarter.
And so far that’s been a terrific success investing behind core positions we have in the marketplace and just taking the risk on the headcount and that one actually people gotten employed faster than is typical.
I think if you talk about again staying in Corp Fin some of our bets in Europe.
One of them and maybe I won’t describe which is which but one of them is totally on track.
Last year was a substantial hit to our P&amp;L and this year will be making us money.
Another one in Europe that we talked about was a hit to our P&amp;L last year and is substantially better this year but it’s probably a couple quarters behind what we anticipated at this point and we’re talking and we’re supporting it.
But we still believe in those bets.
So it’s that some of them like the TMT ones which are home runs and the one of the ones in Europe some of them are like the one I described where they are few quarters behind where we monitor and then you monitor and you say Jesus was this a bad bet or are we just a few quarters behind.
If it’s a few quarters behind you say okay we just we stick with this.
And I would say most them have fallen into one of those camps as opposed to any that I can think and say boy I was stupid to start we should pull the plug on them.
We probably will have those going forward but so far that’s where we are David.
Does that help? It does.
And then along those lines particularly given the successes is there a point where the upside from the bets basically overtakes the downside to costs where on a net basis we should see some contribution and then as a result can estimate [ph] to have some margin improvement? Yeah well at least you should see it in terms of EPS improvement and I think look the truth is part of the progress this year over last year is that.
I mean we already had some investment in last year which some of it is turning from negative to neutral.
Now we’re putting other investments behind it this year.
So I haven’t done the full weighing but the targets for this year are obviously higher than last year and our aspirations for next year are substantially higher than they are.
And that is that phenomenon.
Now we will always have a cost of the bets made in that year for the future and that’s built in there.
But the goal of this is for sure to have the value of this outweigh the cost and that’s the trajectory of growth that we expect to drive.
And thus far I am feeling -- look would I wish everything was succeeding absolutely would I wish lots of stuff going faster than it is absolutely.
Do I -- but are things working yes they are and that’s what leaves me with confidence in where we are trying to take the company.
Does that help Dave? It does it does.
And then just lastly the $0.02 of re-measurement gain on the contingent consideration can you speak to what that was related to? We had an earn-out obligation that was contractually extinguished.
So that -- the measure of going from something to nothing is a gain.
Sure sure but can you say what the earn-out related to or which acquisition it was? No we’re not disclosing the specific deal.
Obviously it was financially beneficial to us.
Sure sure.
Okay thank you both.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
We’ll go next to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Paul.
Good morning.
First on the SMD severance in FLC was that just a senior rainmaker or was that also an internal change in management of that organization? And then second with the acceleration in headcount hiring have you caught up with what you need to do to achieve 2016? Are you back on track after a sort of a slower first quarter? Thanks.
Okay.
On the first one we other than the named executive we don’t identify individuals in the P&amp;L and then could you repeat the second question? Well just on the first one I am just trying to figure is it just a rainmaker or are you have you made some changes to how you want to run the FLC division? And then on the second one was just have you caught up with the headcount hiring now that you’ve seen some good acceleration in the second quarter.
I know that you had said that after the first one you’re a little bit behind.
I’m just wondering if you’re now back on track for 2016 based on deceleration in headcount hiring you saw in the second quarter.
Yeah I would say we are on track.
I don’t think anybody is stopping and in fact that’s one of the lessons of recruiting is if you ever just pull to the side of the road you lose more than just that quarter’s production.
You get out of the market and you lose your muscle.
So but I would say that Corp Fin and FLC in particular are now caught up to being on track but they need to continue to hire based on their growth plans.
And again on the first one I am sorry obviously it was an SMD because it’s a large comp number but we outside of named executives we don’t go into individuals.
Got it thank you.
We’ll go next to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Good morning Tim.
Good morning.
I just wanted to ask about the Technology margins.
I guess you talked about a number of investments that are obviously pressuring margins but there is also a pricing pressure element to it.
So can you give us some context for the I guess the market-driven impact on margins there versus I guess the heightened level of investment so that we get a sense of how much of each is impacting that segment? Yeah it’s -- there is a lot of different pieces in there.
So difficult to tease out and sometimes you can make an investment to go into a lower margin business and so how do you dissect that between a strategic decision as opposed to one that the market is driving.
But I would say the overall context which I think is very similar to what we saw in the first quarter is that our Technology practice which we think is the best in the world is particularly good at very large complex global engagements that involve multiple countries multiple regimes use of our capabilities across the world.
And those require high level of service responses and they are high utilization and they tend to be better margins.
When those were larger part of our mix we’re going to have higher profitability when they were lower part of our mix and were more into the more competitive markets where other people have capabilities that we have as opposed to in the big ones where we think we’re pretty unique we’re going to be more exposed to the pricing pressure that is definitely a ubiquitous feature of the discovery business these days.
So I think second quarter we definitely had less of the stuff where we are in a less competitive market and more of the stuff where we are in a more competitive market.
So it was definitely a driver as it was in the first quarter.
It’s one of the reasons why our visibility in fourth quarter is little low because our folks usually do a very good job of finding business.
We don’t know which kind of business they are going to find.
So there is one the question of can they fill the pipeline where again they always had great success but then the second is what kind of business we fill the pipeline with.
Okay and then you talked about making a number of different bets.
And I guess and I recognize it takes time to know which one of those happening and you have to do more of that to drive growth but I guess implicit is that in knowing the right areas to make those bets.
And I guess how do you feel at this point given I guess 12 to 18 months in each year 10 years that you have a feel for for where is the right place to turn up and down those needles.
And with that context what's the -- do you have a better sense of the medium-term margin that is -- that you -- this business can achieve even when making this healthy set of bets on future growth? Tim I think I obviously feel -- I think David feels that we have a better intuitive sense of which bets are worth making now than we did when we were new to the company.
But I will tell you my big takeaway here is not that we have too many bad bets or not too many good bets but I think the truth is that we are learning as a company to identify all the good bets.
I mean the truth was even in the tough years of this company there were people in adjacent spaces springing up in areas that we should be winning in.
Our FLC business is fabulous in investigations.
Monitoring is right next to it.
We do a little bit of monitoring but we didn’t invest behind the capability of the people that do the monitoring and other people stepped into that void.
Now we’re investing in that.
A bunch of the stuff we’re doing in performance improvement and Corp Fin we had a right to do.
It’s the same sort of capability.
We’re the best in world in doing some of the stuff we are doing and we are just discovering that and investing behind it and I think we’re just scratching the surface of that.
So I believe that this concept of finding the real opportunities and betting behind them can be a sustainable growth engine for this company for a lot of years here Tim and that’s part of the core reason I am excited to be here.
And the issue is more about getting as many of our professionals thinking that way versus running 80 hours a week executing on the work they have to do which is of course one of the problems when you are in an event business is when you get busy you get really busy and you are not focused on correctly.
So you are not focused on our business you are focused on your client’s business and that’s obviously the right thing for great professionals to do.
But we are trying to change that culture.
So I am worried about -- we will have some bad bets and we’ll have some bets that turn out slower but I am not worried about running out of good bets or ability to distinguish between the two.
I mean you know pretty quickly if it’s bad and you can actually know [indiscernible] whether you have a right to win.
I mean if you are going into a space where everybody in the world there is 62 000 competitors and you can’t have somebody articulate a reason why to hire us versus them that’s not a good bet.
If you are clearly the leading guys in a space and your clients tell you that and there is lots of people you haven’t talked to in that space because you have been too busy the notion of spending some time to get some more capacity and calling on the people we haven’t called on sounds like a pretty bet.
Now maybe it takes you a while to penetrate those markets.
So I think it’s not that hard.
And the second part of your question was about the margins.
Look you know I have been steadfastly resisting saying what the margin target is because I think I wouldn’t be excited of having a 30% margin business that was half the size of today and I would be very excited about having today’s margin business organically grown that was 50% higher than today you know because you would have EPS that would be substantially higher and we would have delivered for the shareholders.
So would -- we obviously we all love higher margins when we can get them in.
What we are driving is trying to drive the combination of creating an environment that professionals are delighted to join and shareholder value and that’s what we are committed to and that’s why we do talk about aspirational targets about EPS.
We haven’t talked about aspirational targets with respect to margins.
But you keep asking Tim so I appreciate the question.
All right thanks.
All right thanks.
And we’ll next to Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie Research.
Good morning Kevin.
Hey good morning.
In terms of the hiring just any thoughts as to the structure of the pyramid overall in terms of the -- will the leverage be kind of what it’s been traditional in terms of SMD to associate or just any thoughts around the ratio there? And then just transferable skill sets amongst the different segments? Yes I think look most of our movement thus far and I would say almost all of our movement thus far has been to return our pyramids within the individual segments and sub segments to historical levels.
It’s not been about taking a historical six to one leverage business to a 14 to 1 leverage.
It’s been around six to one leverage that business that got down to 4.8 and taking it back to six.
And so that’s where we are.
Now whether that adds up to the same leverage across the company as historically obviously depends on the mix.
If you look within FLC the feed of the data analytics business is a high leverage business where you have a lot of very smart analysts who can do stuff on a computer that you and I wouldn’t understand.
And a high ratio of those if you are in the disputes part of FLC it tends to be focused on people who can go on the stand supported by some people.
So depending on the mix of the business the overall leverage of this company could change.
Will we be experimenting with different leverage models within various sub-segments as we go forward probably.
It’s something that companies should do but that’s actually not been the thrust for us so far.
It’s been rebuilding the pyramid.
Does that help? Yes that's very helpful.
I just want to make sure I had a quick -- the additional cushion from to refinancing that wasn't considered in the initial ‘16 goals so that gives you additional cushion or how should we think about that? I always -- that $2.50 a share was first announced during Investor Day which and let me be clear.
I always thought about one of the key pillars of this company is the cash flow that it generates.
Now how we use that cash flow wasn’t clear there at that point in time because I didn’t know whether we are going to find great acquisitions or the stock plummets in which case you repurchase shares or whether you are going to retire debt or whatever and I haven’t thought that through and I didn’t -- I was waiting to also add a CFO to help think through that and David joined shortly after Investor Day.
But one of the key pillars of this company is that we have great cash flow at least if we use it wisely and that is a key part of the story and that was in my mind on the $2.50 always as -- because you are making a lot of investments elsewhere in order to turn this company in to a sustainable engine.
One of the things you can use to offset some of those investments is whatever use that cash can be turned into.
So that was always in my mind as we thought through this and is in my mind going forward as we think about -- we haven’t given aspirational target for beyond ’16 but obviously we’re looking to turn this company into a sustainable growth engine and part of that story is making sure we take the cash that the company generates and use it wisely to support growth.
Does that help? Very thank you.
And at this time I will turn the call back to the management for closing remarks.
David anything else? No well thank you all very much for joining us and we hope the rest of your summer is good and we look forward to seeing all of you soon.
Yeah and let me just say thank you again for all the attention that you guys pay to us and sometimes your contributions to our thinking.
We are on a journey here a journey that I am positive on.
This is a great company.
We’re trying to figure out the ways to realize the potential of this great company and the thoughtful comments you guys supply from time to time are very much appreciated.
So thanks and have a great rest of the summer.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Third Quarter of 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I’ll turn the call over to Aby Healy Manager of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's third quarter 2015 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions related to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our medium growth targets future financial results and other matters.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and forward-looking information in our most recent Form 10-K and in other filings filed with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA margins adjusted earnings per share and adjusted net income.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
Lastly there are two items that have been posted to our Investor Relations website this morning for your reference.
These include a quarterly earnings call presentation that we will refer to during this morning's call and an Excel and PDF of our historical financial and operating data which has been updated to include our third quarter of 2015 results.
With these formalities out of the way I am joined today by Steve Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Johnson our Chief Financial Officer.
At this time I'll turn our call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Gunby.
Thank you Aby.
Good morning and welcome.
We've a fair amount of detail to cover this morning so let me briefly introduce some key messages and turn it over to David to give you some granular detail and I'll come back before Q&amp;A and share a few perspectives on where I see us on the overall changed journey.
I would like to start the session by talking about three points two that are somewhat sobering and one that's substantially more positive.
First though the Q3 numbers look reasonably solid as David will talk about embedded in those numbers are some concerning trends and a couple of businesses that we believe will persist into Q4 and well into next year.
As a result of those trends and some timing issues we're taking our guidance for 2015 for adjusted EPS down to a range of $1.80 and $1.95.
Second in a message that I find our toughest to swallow is that based on that lower platform we can no longer transmit confidence that we will meet the $2.50 per share aspirational targets in the timeframe we had originally hoped which was 2016.
That change is an important one for me the $2.50 per share was not just a number to me.
For me it's somewhat of a milestone for our firm marking a targeted end of the first phase of the major change efforts that we are collectively driving here.
Though we'll talk about it the progress we're making I and we had serious hopes of getting there in the next 12 months.
Though we are making considerable progress in our changed efforts and the efforts are showing momentum both in qualitative terms and in financial terms there are some current business headwinds and some legacy headwinds that have persisted longer than we anticipated when we first set the aspiration for 2016 and make it no longer realistic to say we're on track for hitting that number in 2016 and I'll come back to those comments in my close.
The last point is to me at least as important as the first two.
Notwithstanding those first two messages I and the rest of our team remain very bullish not just on where this company can go but where we are already heading.
A platform of this year's results is not as high as we had hoped but the results are still indicative of substantial improvement and a positive trajectory that is underway in going forward.
We‘ll talk about this more in David’s remarks in the close but we’re making progress in multiple areas organic headcount stopping poor acquisitions using cash in ways that is accretive and investment in behind core bets and making investments that are working and growing the capabilities of this organization to identify and make great bets to drive organic growth.
This combination of continued investment for the future realizing the initial bets the results of the initial bets good deployment of cash means that notwithstanding legacy issues and some current business headwinds and candidly some places where we’re simply not performing at the level we need to notwithstanding all of that the numbers are going up.
This year for the first year in many years we’re going to have growth in our EPS and not only growth but growth in double-digits and we believe that through a prudent use of cash and organic growth we’re on a path towards steady year-in year-out double-digit EPS growth.
Let me get back to some of these points in a little bit more detail after David has had a chance to go through some of the numbers David? Thanks Steve.
Turning to Slide 4 revenues for Q3 were $455.5 million up 1% from the prior year quarter.
FX kind of estimated 3.1% from revenue growth and adjusted we grew 4.1% year-over-year with 3.6% of that being organic.
Revenues were up sequentially from Q2 2015 by 1.4% with minimal impact from FX.
Fully diluted GAAP EPS were $0.25 in the quarter compared to $0.55 in the prior year.
EPS in the current quarter included our previously disclosed $19.6 million loss on early extinguishment of debt which decreased EPS by $0.28.
Adjusted EPS for Q3 were $0.53 versus $0.63 last year.
Adjusted EBITDA was $56.1 million or 12.3% of revenues compared to $63.4 million or 14.1% of revenues in the third quarter 2014 and up fractionally from 55.8% in Q2.
Turning to our segments on Slide 5 corporate financing restructuring revenues increased 13.4% or $113.5 million compared to $100 million last year.
This was net of an estimated 4.3% negative hit from FX.
Excluding FX revenues increased 17.8% driven by continued high demand in North America particularly for distressed services.
Revenues increased 4.9% sequentially from Q2 excluding FX.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was $26.7 million or 23.5% of revenues compared to a 15.5% margin in the prior year and 22.2% margin in Q2.
The 20 point plus margins we've seen so far this year are driven by increased volume from North American distressed work which in turn drove higher utilization and improvements in staff leverage.
We’re particularly pleased with the improvement in leverage.
Corporate finance grew headcount 15% year-over-year and 7% sequentially exactly when they were needed.
Turning to the outlook several of our largest North American distressed projects will likely wind down in the fourth quarter.
Our backlog is good but it did not match the levels we saw at this point in the prior three quarters.
The lower backlog coupled with normal seasonality causes us to expect some pullback in Q4 from our year-to-date pace.
Revenue will likely be down single digit sequentially but still north of $100 million in the fourth quarter and margins will mid to high teens.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting or FLC we reported revenues of $116.2 million in the quarter decreasing 4.6% from prior year and 7.9% down sequentially.
Excluding an estimated negative impact of FX revenues were down 2.3% year-over-year and 7.4% sequentially.
The decline came primarily from lower demand in our global disputes and investigation practices offset only partially by success fees and health solutions and improved demand in our North American data analytics practice.
FLC's adjusted segment EBITDA was $13.4 million or 11.5% of segment revenues compared to $22.3 million or 18.3% margin in the prior year quarter.
On a sequential basis adjusted segment EBITDA was down $6.6 million from Q2.
The major drivers of the decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA on our margin were lower demand in our global disputes in investigations practices coupled the ramp-up of hiring in certain core practices and higher bad debt expenses compared to bad debt recoveries in the prior year quarter.
These results are a significant disappointment.
While FLC met its targets in July revenues and profits weekend sharply in August.
The trend continued in September and our current backlog indicates little hope for recovery in the fourth quarter.
There are three things occurring here first we continue to suffer from the comparison with 2014 which was the best year in FLC’s history.
Several large matters drove utilization and profits up dramatically.
Most of that business is now in the rearview mirror.
Second several large North American offices are now seeing weak demand versus even our normal run rate expectations.
We're aggressively analyzing the drivers but much of this business is reactive.
If the volume of investigations and disputes drops then so does our business.
We did not perceive a loss of share but we're looking closely.
Third much of the increase in cost is intentional.
Just as in incorporate finance FLC headcount particular junior staff is up in FLC 6.5% year-over-year excluding health solutions.
And normally revenue lags headcount.
We've been lucky in corporate finance that it hasn’t.
However when demand doesn’t just lag but instead drops the cost from the headcount goes right to the bottom line.
The increased FLC hiring since the beginning of the year added more than $3 million of salary cost to the quarter and year-to-date they are more than $11 million.
Nonetheless we're completely and totally committed to both the hiring program and the strategy of organic growth.
We believe this staff is a necessary but we get it it’s not a sufficient condition for growth but we must have the staff.
In our outlook we expect to see revenue margin and EBITDA in the fourth quarter it all be slightly down again from third quarter levels.
This is a further step back from our last forecast when we expected FLC’s second half to be stronger than the first half of the year.
The core FLC business will likely trade water in fourth versus third quarter and the segment reported EBITDA should see a small step back from third quarter levels which benefited from success fees and health solutions.
Third quarter economic consulting revenues declined 4.9% to $114.5 million compared to $120.5 million in the prior year quarter which includes an estimated 2.2% negative impact of FX.
A small acquisition made in the fourth quarter last year contributed $1.7 million of third quarter revenue a 1.4% lift excluding both the acquisition and FX revenue declined $5 million or 4.2% year-over-year.
M&amp;A related revenue continued at high levels and remained our bright spot in the quarter.
The International Arbitration Regulatory and Valuation practices in economics were also up year-over-year.
This strength was offset yet again year-over-year by decreased demand for non-M&amp;A related antitrust and financial economic services.
However sequentially revenue in the segment increased 5.4% from $108.7 million in Q2.
Adjusted segment EBITDA decreased slightly to $16.7 million year-over-year increased slightly from $15.3 million in Q2.
Margins were down a point year-over-year and essentially flat sequentially.
In our outlook we expect revenue and EBITDA in the fourth quarter to be largely unchanged from second and third quarter levels.
Given that December is historically very weak in this segment that means we are hoping for some improvement versus our year-to-date run rate in the first two months of the quarter.
In the third quarter technology revenues of $55.6 million decreased 10.9% compared to $62.4 million in the prior quarter including a 1.5% decrease from FX.
Excluding FX revenues decrease 9.4%.
The decrease in revenue was primarily due to a decline in consulting and other services related to financial services companies and large global cross boarder investigations which was only partially offset by M&amp;A related second request work.
While we will continue to win new M&amp;A related matters they do not make up for the loss of the larger investigations that drove 2014.
Sequentially revenues dropped 10.1%.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $10.8 million or 19.5% of segment revenues compared to $17.8 million or 28.6% of segment revenues in the prior year quarter.
The decrease in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to lower utilization and realized pricing related to client mix and reduced licensing revenues.
Technologies and business that we know is extremely dynamic and lumpy.
One or two big projects can material changes results.
Nonetheless based on our current backlog we do not expect this business to dramatically change in 4Q or early 2016.
We expect revenues to be slightly down in the fourth quarter with minor improvements in margins leaving EBITDA levels largely unchanged.
In Strategic Communication third quarter revenue increased 19.7% to $55.7 million which included an estimated 7% unfavorable impact from FX.
Excluding FX revenues increased 26.7%.
However of this $9.3 million was a result of higher pass-through revenue with the other $3.1 million coming from organic growth driven largely by higher M&amp;A and public affairs project-based revenue in EMEA and North America.
Sequentially revenues were 28.5% or $12.3 million higher but also benefiting from the pass-through revenue.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $8.7 million or 15.6% of segment revenues compared to $6.6 million or 14.2% in the prior year quarter and $5.6 million or 13% of segment revenues in Q2.
This marks the sixth straight quarter of double digit margins in Stratcom.
The increase in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was largely driven by redeploying and matching headcount towards profitable work and the improved staff leverage that resulted from cost saving activities initiated in 2014 as well as a shift in mix to higher priced project based revenue.
In our outlook we expect the spike in pass through revenue in third quarter to reverse leaving fourth quarter revenue at levels comparable to third quarter but excluding pass-throughs.
Excluding pass-throughs those were $42 million.
Margins should be relatively unchanged leaving EBITDA very slightly down.
As usual I won't spend a lot of time on the geographic breakdowns on Slide 6.
North America remains our primary engine with corporate finance driving results for the third quarter in a row.
EMEA dropped a little bit due to negative contributions from technology and FLC but was largely in line with normal revenue contribution in the past two quarters.
Asia Pacific remains weak still driven largely by Australia though EBITDA in the region saw positive improvement year-over-year and Latin America was a bit slower than expected with a drag at FLC revenues and negative FX impact from Stratcom.
Turning to Slide 7 our cash and cash equivalents were $105 million at quarter end as we completed the retirement of our six and three quarter percent notes.
We estimate that our total refinancing program retiring the $400 million of notes with a mixture of cash and bank debt will benefit our fourth quarter adjusted EPS by approximately $0.08.
For 2016 we expect a further on top of the $0.08 incremental benefit at $0.17 or slightly north depending on your view of LIBOR.
We are projecting a fourth quarter tax rate of 36% plus or minus but as you know this can be quite volatile from quarter to quarter.
Finally we look for our corporate investment spending to peak in the fourth quarter.
Our corporate expense line should approach $30 million.
The largest part of the increase just as was the case last year is our annual all SMD Meeting which produces $0.06 to $0.07 of cost.
Given the weakness we're seeing in results we considered postponing the meeting.
However that would be exactly the wrong message to our SMDs.
Sustained organic growth requires sustained investment that doesn’t waver with quarterly fluctuations.
These annual sessions are not parties they are intense planning and training sessions in our strategy for growth and they are essential for our future.
As you saw on our release we have lowered our outlook for fourth quarter significantly.
The midpoint of our new range is $0.18 below the previous level.
The vast majority of our diminished outlook is driven by FLC with minor reductions from technology and corporate finance.
As Steve will discuss our belief that value is created by organic growth with disciplined used of capital is unchanged.
Each of our businesses has and will benefit from our program of investments which is one a steady pipeline of increased talent both developed internally and hired from outside.
Two incremental expansion of products and areas of practice; three deepened coverage of countries and regions; four R&amp;D where it is relevant; five improvements in cost structure and six expansions of our vision of and capabilities in origination.
Doing these things will increase EPS however this is a volatile business and our growth will always be off a difficult to predict baseline.
Since the beginning of 2015 we've seen six major changes in our outlook.
First corporate finance has materially outperformed.
Second the earnings benefit we found from the use of our cash to restructure our debt proved high.
Unfortunately we'll also now have three segments with weaker results in 2015 than hoped; economics technology and now FLC.
Up until now this weakness has been offset by corporate finance and delayed investment spending but with FLC down and our investment programs underway we will now have to grow in 2016 off a lower base.
We’re now yet ready to provide our 2016 guidance; however given our run rates going into the fourth quarter it is unlikely we can reach $2.50 per share in 2016.
Now I'll hand it back to Steve.
Thank you David.
Let me pick on David’s points and bridge a bit between the results this quarter the fact that its taking us longer to reach $2.50 a share and the positives that we're seeing.
One way I’d like to do that is provide some historical perspective disaggregating our business into two parts a group of four businesses that I got a lot of questions on when I first started and the other two businesses.
The four businesses that I received a lot of questions about when I started were Stratcom Corpfin FLC and Health Solutions and if you look at the slide on Page 8 you'll see I guess why many of the people were asking about those businesses.
From 2009 to 2013 as I think most of you know these businesses were down substantially in adjusted EBITDA cumulatively $114 million which is about a $1.70 EPS impact for company that as you know only earned a $1.64 last year.
This huge impact was notwithstanding the fact that during this period we invested a substantial amount of money in acquisitions behind some of these businesses.
Some of the decline was the aftermath of the restructuring boom in 2009 but as you know and to see on Slide 9 the decline persisted for an existed time after the restructuring boom ended and collectively dropped before the low pre restructuring boom levels and hence the many questions.
We've since focused a lot on these businesses.
When you look at them they cry out that we have a right to win to succeed to grow in these businesses not to shrink but to be growing them.
We have great professionals and in many geographies we've very strong comparative positions.
We should be able to do better and we made changes.
We downsized certain sub parts of certain businesses but we invested behind other ones and we made a lot of what we call bets which are the collegial term it means investments behind key positions and a number of those investments are working.
Cumulatively the effect is that we've begun to turn these businesses around.
In 2014 those businesses cumulatively were flat in EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA How flat I think we all would agree it's hardly exciting but compared to a drop of $28 million a year over the prior years flat without any support from acquisitions is a start.
This year when we look at these businesses even incorporating the FLC fall off in the second half of the year that David talked about in the substantial investment in headcount cumulatively these businesses will be up roughly 10% this year in adjusted EBITDA.
The 10% growth is with far from all of these businesses humming.
Some of the acquisitions we’ve talked about from time to time are not yet fully performing.
Some places some of the new revenue bets are not working with added headcount some places that are not fully deployed but even with those headwinds is enough good stuff that is going on in these businesses that we've been able to take this pattern of many years and start to turn it around.
This is what we're trying to do with all of our businesses in ever better ways we don’t need to be perfect.
What we need are strong solid investments that collectively work and we're seeing those results here.
Let me switch from where we've made clear progress to the other two businesses if you look at Slide 12 you see a different story for Econ and Tech for 2007 to 2013.
Today we're wonderfully stable businesses during this period with growth up to 2011 and stability thereafter really the core rocks of stability for the company during this period.
If you look over the last two years of course they've not been rocks of stability.
Combined they're down $50 million in adjusted EBITDA between 2013 and where we believe they're going to come out this year.
The biggest surprise for me has been Econ we have unbelievable professionals in this business and it had been a real growth business historically.
There were new employment contracts beginning in 2014 and some other cost issues that created a margin hit for the business but the forecast that time and for many quarters since was that EBITDA though would take a short term hit will be back up the top line growth would overcome this hit.
As you know the expected revenue growth hasn’t come.
If you look a bit deeper in fact Econ EBITDA peaked in Q1 of 2013 at $26 million and declined with some jagged edges to roughly half that level by early 2015.
A year ago based on the revenue forecast I had expected that we would get the earnings back to 2013 levels by 2016 and this is clearly not going to be the case and is one of the major reasons why the $2.50 a share aspirations for 2016 is unlikely to be met.
Nor have we yet turned these Econ businesses back into substantial growth businesses but we believe we have a much better handle on these businesses and significant actions by the teams involved have stabilized these businesses.
We've taken a hard look at the businesses on two dimensions.
First simply to make sure we've more realistic revenue forecast and second to talk about what do we need to do to actually get these businesses growing again? We have the best franchise in the world.
The world’s best professionals.
These are businesses that have historically produced tremendous growth.
We're committed to invest behind to continue to invest behind strong positions in the strong professionals and we believe those investments and the efforts of the professionals have stopped the multi-quarter hit that started in the first quarter of 2013 and we've thus eliminated a significant persistent drag on our earnings.
We look forward over time to turn these businesses back to the substantial growth engines they ones were.
The second issue is Tech we’ve always known that this business is heavily dependent on large jobs and we're worried about both the risk that in any quarter or two would lack for the large jobs and the more systemic issue of whether as the financial crisis litigation ran off the market as a whole might slow.
I would say that the market has moved as fast in a negative direction as our scenario range is feared and we’ve been affected by that about as much as we could envision.
We believe the e-discovery business will be around for a long time and we have a terrific position in that business and terrific professionals.
Nevertheless given the market dynamics we are looking at the fundamental strategic elements and working to figure out how to get that business back on a growth trajectory we've heavy attention on that both within the segment and our strategy department and I am confident we will find good answers given the strength of those professionals.
Having said that none of that gives us confidence particularly in absence of a big core job or two that this is a substantial growth engine for 2016.
So let me step back where does that leave us as a whole? It leaves us with a substantially lower base than where I hoped we would be at this point in time but the beginnings as well of a growth trajectory and no less confidence in our forecast of a going forward growth trajectory.
We have a formula for growth that is working across the four -- first four businesses that when any period of time any one of those businesses can be off in a significant way as we’ve seen this year with FLC cumulatively we believe we've turned a major corner on a very difficult historical trend there.
Over the past couple years we had a big drag from Econ but we cannot yet claim to return Econ to its historical trajectory we do believe we've bottomed out the decline and have the right sort of conversations going on internally to over time return it to growth and more important we have the right set of professionals to do that.
We clearly have some uncertainty near term about Tech but we also terrific people there who are focused on the right questions and I’m confident we will find good answers.
The net of all that is for sure a lower base than we had hoped but even so a base that we believe this year will be up double digits over last year in terms of EPS and more important a belief that we have a sustained growth trajectory going forward a trajectory that can both create the sort of firm that the lights and inspires the great professionals but also the delivers on sustained double-digit EPS growth going forward.
So with that let me open the floor for question for David and me.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Tim McHugh from William Blair &amp; Company.
Thanks.
I guess first I guess maybe just to focus on discovery and economics you made some comments maybe to start with economics that you feel like you've kind of stopped the declines and are in a better place but what's going to drive I guess can you elaborate on what gives you confidence that we're in a better trajectory here other than another comparisons and so forth get easier but just maybe a little bit more detail there? Well I think actually the comparisons are a big part of it.
Year-over-year we've had weakness in -- we had weakness in financial economics and private antitrust that started fourth quarter last year and those have persisted but we bottomed out and actually now started to see sequential some signs of sequential growth.
So we're now not going to be fighting negative comparisons from fourth quarter onward in those segments and in the other businesses where we've been seeing substantial growth which has been offset by those weaknesses and further positive efforts we have there now can go to the bottom line.
Now M&amp;A again you can't -- that's volatile too and we will rise or fall with the volume of global M&amp;A revenue but our franchise is fantastic our share is great there and we've been doing really good in that area and in arbitration all through the year.
It's just offset by the comparisons in the other two segments.
Those are now stabilized with sometimes the sequential growth and we're still looking for good stuff in the international arbitration and M&amp;A.
And arbitration is not as volatile or susceptible just to the wave of M&amp;A going up and down.
That's when where if you add incremental professionals you get incremental share and volume and we're continuing to invest.
So it's all positive signs that we think we've bottomed and at the minimum hopefully this will not be a source of negative surprise and hopefully we can have some upside going forward.
Okay.
And then let me just ask a bigger picture or somewhat bigger picture I guess you've resisted wanting to talk about profit margins in the past and I know you've pointed out more revenue at lower margin is still a good thing but given your new guidance implies margins will be down again this year and despite all the headcount the growth is really fairly modest at this point.
I get you've got different segments with puts and takes but can you -- does the thought of a margin for the next year or two or some sort of medium term margin target -- do you have thoughts on where you sit I guess and balancing those factors? But we've never resisted talking about what our margins are but as you correctly point out we've resisted saying what is the perfect target margin for the overall company and for each segment and actually I think the results of the quarter give a good example of one of the reasons why we do resist that not that we don't think about it not that we're not willing to talk about it in pieces.
But so for example in corporate finance we've added heads at a dramatic amount and because as Steve said many of the investments that we've made over time have been so successful there.
Those heads not only were immediately rushed to the front lines to do the work but they did it in a way that improved our operating leverage and further boosted the margins.
So in FLC on the other hand we also added the heads but because the revenue and the demand was not there degraded it.
So kind of on a rolling three-year basis if you have revenue -- sustained revenue growth those headcounts in both cases are part of structurally improving the margin and by giving us the benefit of operating leverage when we’ve adequate demand to put them to work in a more profitable way.
And if you look at our core finance numbers the cost for billable head is dropping as revenue is going up.
So it's working as you want but the margin is in some ways a little bit more volatile because you have the cost.
So we definitely are willing to talk about it but it's most impossible on a quarterly and even in annual basis to nail a target margin when you're trying to build for a long term sustainably more profitable and on average higher margin business.
I don't know if Steve has views on this too.
Does that answer your question Tim or start to your question.
Yes That’s all I have.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Tim.
We'll go next to Tobey Sommer of SunTrust.
Good morning Tobey Good morning within your headcount growth is there a difference in the rates of year-over-year consulting growth if you look at it from SMD and top level mid-level and kind of at the junior end? For sure there is a huge amount of variation across our segments depending on their starting place Tobey but absolutely we’re up on all levels.
Our SMD headcount is up as is across the Board by level but it’s different by level.
The percentage headcount growth in the SMD is the lowest because part of what we’re trying to do is rebuild leverage that we didn’t have.
When you can’t achieve the profitability targets that we think we deserve or the growth aspirations with the low leverage that we had allowed ourselves to get to for a while.
So most of the headcount growth is not at the SMD level but we have growth at each level in the pyramid does that answer your question.
So without specific percentages somewhat lower in the SMD level maybe it’s mid single digits rather than 8% or 9% like the aggregate in the low level is in the double digit somewhere.
Yes I think that’s about right.
Again it depends but even low single digits on SMDs depending on the practice.
I am curious about thank you.
You've never been at the helm for several quarters and you've seen variation in the company’s forecasting versus actual results.
Has anything -- have you altered anything about your forecasting process is one question? And then I am curious if the sharp focus on boarding new talent is at all maybe taken precedence over the financial forecasting thank you? I'll answer the first one.
I think actually we have since I joined in and since David joined we've done a number of steps to upgrade our forecasting.
I think we could have just done a better job.
There is some inherent un-forecast ability about this business which you'll never get rid of and then there is some part where if we had been little more probing in our question and challenging and challenging our data with historical analogues and so forth we could have gotten rid of some less probabilistic forecast.
And I think that’s just part of the continuous improvement.
I would say we’re now significantly better at forecasting than we were but it's probably still work to do.
The second part of your question was are we focusing on on-boarding and is that distracting from our financial forecasting.
I don’t think those two are connected at all actually.
We do have a lot of focus on on-boarding.
I think we have some conversation internally as to how much work we've put into make sure we’re getting the right talent and to get the right talent sometimes means you have to have your senior-most professionals involved in hiring and whether that has helped distract from the marketplace activities and contributed to some of the slowdown we’re seeing in a couple of places and we’re talking about that.
But I have not seen any connection between that in the financial forecasting.
David would you agree? No it’s completely different people for the most part.
So yes we've increased the frequency and the depth of the re-forecasting exercise.
It certainly tends when I first started and on a segment by segment basis we’re improving the backlog.
I guess you would call interrogation tools.
But inherently there is always going to be a portion of even a quarter's forecast for business that has to be acquired and you have greater or lesser amounts of confidence depending on how much of the expected business for the quarter is in firm backlog as opposed to how much to be acquired.
Generally the surprises in my now 15 months in the company generally seem to come from matters winding up a little faster than expected that's usually when you get a vivid of expectation within the current quarter.
And my last question is on the economic practice the slowdown in the topline did seem to occur more or less when the change in compensation occurred.
At this point do you see a linkage between the two or do you consider it a market phenomenon? I don’t see a linkage between the two.
That I don’t think is a pause link between those two if that’s the question.
There are market phenomenon there are going on in all of these businesses and whether we've lost or gain share in a subset of our businesses another factor we talk about internally but I don’t see a connection between that and the new compensation arrangements Tobey.
Okay.
And can I sneak one more in? In prior election cycles there has been a kind of a slowdown around government led investigations as kind of top regulators go back out into private employment and their custodian subordinates don’t tend to launch as many new investigation but rather just execute on ones that are already ongoing? Have you looked at that as a potential explanation for activity in the marketplace? Is there anything you are seeing? I’m sure that those discussions on going on in FLC right now.
I have actually a bit resisted those.
I think the truth is that even though that could be a macro factor my sense here Tobey is we’ve been a little bit too willing to go to macro factors.
Yes that could be true.
The truth is that we have great professionals who even if there is market slowdown will typically gain share and I think we need to not use that as an excuse.
If the market is a macro slowdown we need to be figuring out how do we gain share so we can deploy the professionals that we’ve added and get this business back to growing.
So I think I don’t think that we should be -- that might be true and I’ll be meeting with FLC tomorrow to go through the latest hypothesis going through and I'll see what they say about that.
But I want to be clear.
I don’t think we should be using that as an excuse.
We have slow down in some of the office with the most outstanding professional.
My experience is the outstanding professionals focused on the market can get their people back busy.
The question is how long will it take but I believe we can and need to get the folks back busy does that answer to your question Tobey? It does thank you.
We’ll go next to David Gold of Sidoti.
Good morning David.
Hi good morning.
Just a couple of question.
First on the FLC side just following up there as we think about that business do you think there are secular changes there that maybe now with the focus on a little more closely and therefore if maybe we should be going about that business in a different way.
We’ll be taking through all those hypothesis.
I have strategy conversation every three months with each of the segments and I have one tomorrow with FLC.
So we talk about all of that stuff.
At this point I don’t -- its similar to the question with Tobey.
At this point I don’t think there is enough of the secular change in that market that we should be changing direction.
What we need to do is get our professionals back in the market and get the people busy and does that mean there aren’t specific geographies and specific sub practices and so forth around the world we’re very complicated business.
There is always the truth to that in sub practices and sub geographies but as a whole I don’t think so David.
That’s not our conclusion.
Our conclusion is we got to get back to work and get our people busy.
Okay.
And then broader question as we think about what’s going on over the last year or say versus the strategic review process that went on when you initially joined.
I guess two questions first at this point your level of confidence in that strategic review process and maybe the plans -- the planned outcome there given that we went into some bumps in the road.
And then two is it time perhaps for closer re-review maybe of all the business lines? Forgive me if it’s unfair -- I’m just -- it's just a… No no that’s fine.
So in terms of re-review the business lines we are -- look you recognized that when you first start you get a strategic review and you need to look at each of those businesses sequentially and make sure it holds and we’re doing that every quarter and we’re doing deeper dives with different businesses or sub parts of our businesses periodically.
It is a part of our process.
So I agree with that.
In terms of the business versus what I saw there are surprises but I would say again let me go back to my remark the biggest surprise is actually with one of our best businesses is Econ where we thought that where there is going to be a cost hit in 2014 but we would rapidly overcome that with growth and that growth hasn’t come.
It doesn’t make the business less of a great business but that is a big gap in where we are today versus where I thought we would be today and mainly because it is such a great business.
It was very -- given the trajectory it was very easy to believe what I believe last management believe which was that with the cost hits would rapidly be overcome by growth.
The cost hits have come and they haven’t been rapidly overcome by growth and that's a new reality and it’s a key part of it.
If you adjusted it for that reality the noise around all the rest of the businesses would even out.
Corp Fin is outperforming where I thought we would be at this point.
FLC is below.
Stratcom is I think there is a lot of skepticism about Stratcom.
Stratcom has done a terrific job of moving its thing.
So there is clearly differences from where we were a year ago.
I would say there is only one fundamental surprise and it's with one of our businesses and I think we’ve got that understood at this point.
And we do have important set of questions with Tech driven by the market and we have a look at that going on right now.
So does that help David? It does it does.
Okay.
And then just one last one I know one of key points has been making some investments in some broader bets or maybe planned procedure growth longer term any of those bets that you can either talk about just yet or is it too early? And part two at this point do we backlog some of that investment or do we keep that going? Look I think there is a lot of detail we could go into I don’t know whether we want to go into all that here.
In every one of the businesses we have investments in Stratcom the key of the turnaround to Stratcom was to figure out sub parts of that business where we thought we could invest at that time we were disinvesting or slowing the growth in some other parts.
And we've invested behind as we have talked about public affairs which we have a very strong position in we have invested behind our energy practice in the U.S.
or public affairs business in Brussels and there is terrific result there.
I don’t know if we are releasing numbers of headcount in our Brussels office but I guess we are not.
But there is substantial growth and I think by many measures we're the number one public affairs business in Brussels right now.
And so there is those sorts of stories in every business we've talked about some of the investments we’ve made to drive businesses in Corp Fin business non-distressed businesses in the U.S.
some businesses in Europe.
The businesses in Europe were a big loss drag in the first year of investment.
This year they are net positive by the end of this year and we expect good things going forward and the same thing for some of the U.S.
businesses there.
So even in FLC which is weak right now there are some very strong successes.
Our Construction Solutions business that we’ve invested in is growing extremely -- is growing very solidly.
So I would say that we have not had too many investment failures which we had to pull the plug on.
We had a couple.
The biggest investment of course though is in the headcount and right now you see the issue that happens if you add the heads and you don’t get the revenue and you see that in FLC and I think we’re very resolved to get that improved by next year by getting the revenue in to employ those people.
So does that help? It does it does.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Paul.
Hi good morning this is [Atto] [ph] on for Paul.
Good morning.
Good morning Atto.
So just couple of questions on your healthcare business first can you size that business and secondly have you seen any changes or can you give us some thoughts on what you're seeing as far as the demand picture? Have you seen any slow down or any pull back in demand as hospitals are having better margins in that maybe influencing some of your performance improvement projects? And third net of those and what you're seeing from demand picture can you just remind me what you're -- whether or not that has changed your hiring plans for that group? Okay.
Yes healthcare is a relatively small part of the segment that we reported FLC and we don’t break that out specifically.
I think we play some fairly defined in particular places in the healthcare space and the dynamics we see are probably a little bit different than some of our competitors whose results you may have seen.
So we have a business there that is in kind of advisory and investigations which really runs on its own dynamic volumes there very much driven by our origination activity and then we have performance improvement business that again is not as oriented around the very large research institutions and is more in the regional and then smaller space.
And again there we really -- while we certainly see what’s going on in the larger healthcare space typically our demand is driven by our origination activities which does tend to go in some cycles.
So I think the business is doing okay this year.
It's roughly comparable to its performance last year which was down from a very good 2013 but it’s not a particular drag or boost to our results this year and we're pleased with what we are doing.
Great.
And just one more you mentioned across the number of segments that you've had some positive results driven by your exposure to the M&amp;A cycle.
So previously FCN that your overall revenue exposure to mergers and acquisitions was about 10% to 15%.
Do you think that somewhat is true and if not about what you think that exposure is now? Yes.
I am not sure that I haven’t tallied that up in that way recently and I think the two segments -- well we have three segments that have some -- well we have four segments.
We have all of our segments some participation in M&amp;A as I think it’s through here.
But how it varies is rather dramatic and different.
Our Corp Fin business has a growing transaction advisory service particularly in Europe but also in the U.S.
That can obviously -- but that plays in a different cycle than our antitrust business which will tend to not to be on the diligent side but on the support of the approval strategic communications business obviously has some participation in M&amp;A too.
I’d say the only two segments were generally you would call out M&amp;A as being a material driver of better or worse would be the economic segment and Strategic Communications and I think really the only one where you would say a large defined portion that can move materially as preferably economics.
Those strategic communication is important but it’s kind of we're in ongoing dialogue with these clients.
Much of it is retainer based and when they do M&amp;A obviously the business grows a lot but it’s not that it's kind of as big or episodic is the way it could be in economics.
And generally I don’t think we would sign up for a 10% to 15% but the fact that it is not half of our business or that we are not a M&amp;A cycle dominated company we definitely would agree with.
Okay great.
Just one more like to sneak in looking at some of the strength that you've have seen in North America on the distressed work that you've been doing within corporate finance and restructuring.
Is that primarily driven by pre-filing work that you're doing with debtor side or is it more are you guys getting more engagements on the creditor side? Probably you can just parse out those projects at all.
I think historically 10 years ago this company was seen as a creditor side shop and we have probably the leading creditor side practice in North America but I think people don’t realize that the deader side work that we do is significantly more than half of our revenue in the Corp Fin business.
We made huge strides on that deader side particularly in specific industry verticals we have a terrific tech vertical we have a terrific retail vertical.
So you heard this past year about some of the places we were doing work in those.
So it’s a combination of both actually but I think if you look through some of our past statements you'll see a lot of debtor side work that might be a little bit more surprising to people who knew us 10 years ago.
Does that help? Yes that’s great.
Thank you very much.
We’ll go next to Randy Reece of Avondale Partners.
Good morning Randy I was just wondering if you were contemplating some changes in the investments that you've made in let's say the selling side of the business.
If you could evaluate what you've done in the effectiveness of what you've done to date and what the next step is? Are you talking about origination side of the business? Yes.
That varies a lot by segment.
I think there are two things we've done.
One which I think we've done pretty well.
The other one which I think we're starting it a little more aggressively.
The one that I think we've done pretty well is continue to acquire talent from the outside.
We're not doing acquisition but we've really ramped up the ladder hire program selectively.
Obviously we've been adding more junior staff than senior staff consciously have increased leverage but we have across all over segments attracted a fair amount of talent laterally.
Now usually at the more senior levels it takes a little while for those people to get busy.
Junior people you hope that they get busy within six months or at worst 12 months.
The more senior people can take 12 or 18 months or even a little longer sometimes to get to the full run rate.
We feel very good about those lateral hires and I think that’s a process that we're continuing to go through.
The other side is just commercial excellence and I think we really have not historically had a lot of discussion internally about just what is the best program for leveraging this terrific set of relationships we have.
We have such good professionals that the phone often rings.
And like in many businesses like that if the phone doesn’t ring it’s a different set of skills than simply answering the phone and being great professionals and we have had some conversation in here about the need to upgrade our discussions internally and we have this all SMD Meeting coming up that’s going to be a primary focus on it.
So that’s an area where we've started to work but I think we've got a long way ahead and that’s a pure commercial excellence as well as some of the stuff we have piloted this past year which is around just leveraging the terrific relationships we have in one segment across to other segments that some places where we've made some investments and some progress but we're planning to turbo charge over the next 24 months.
Does that help Randy.
Yes.
Thank you.
At this time we have no further questions.
I’d like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you very much for your time your support.
We know that this is not the quarter that we typically like to deliver but I hope you walk away from this in understanding that we've notwithstanding this quarter or the forecast for the rest of this year we believe that this company is headed in the right direction and will be.
So many thanks for your support.
Bye bye.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Please standby we're about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the FTI Consulting Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and introductions I'll turn the call over to Mollie Hawkes Senior Director of Investor Relations at FTI Consulting.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Investor Relations &amp; Communications</strong> Good morning.
Welcome to the FTI Consulting conference call to discuss the company's fourth quarter and full-year 2015 results as reported this morning.
Management will begin with formal remarks after which we'll take your questions.
Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that this conference call may include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include statements concerning plans objectives goals strategies future events future revenues future results and performance expectations plans or intentions relating to financial performance acquisitions business trends and other information or other matters that are not historical including statements regarding estimates of our future financial results and other matters.
For a discussion of risks and other factors that may cause the actual results or events to differ from those contemplated by forward-looking statements investors should review the Safe Harbor statement in the earnings press release issued this morning a copy of which is available on our website at www.fticonsulting.com as well as other disclosures under the heading of Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information in our most-recent Form 10-K and in other filings filed with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements which speak only as the date of this earnings call and will not be updated.
During the call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA adjusted segment EBITDA total adjusted segment EBITDA adjusted earnings per share adjusted net income and adjusted segment EBITDA margin.
For a discussion of these and other non-GAAP financial measures as well as a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most recently comparable GAAP measures investors should review the press release and the accompanying financial tables that we issued this morning.
There are two items that have been posted to our Investor Relations website this morning for your reference.
These include a quarterly earnings call presentation that we will refer to during this morning's call and an Excel and PDF of our historical financial and operating data which has been updated to include our four quarter and full-year financial results.
With these formalities out of the way I'm joined today by Steve Gunby our President and Chief Executive Officer; and David Johnson our Chief Financial Officer; and Cathy Freeman our Senior Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
The group is sitting in different locations this morning so I apologize ahead of time if there is a delay in response as we try not to speak over each other.
At this time I will turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Gunby.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Mollie and thank you all for joining us this morning.
I'd like to start by thanking David.
David I believe this is your last earnings call.
It is difficult to see David leave but I do think that most folks understand and respect his decision to join an organization that is today dealing with some of the world's most-difficult and immediate problems.
David you have incredible strength.
On behalf of all your colleagues at FTI and myself I hope the IRC makes great use of those strengths as you attack those problems.
I'd also like to take a moment to welcome Cathy Freeman to our earnings call.
As many of you know Cathy has been with FTI since 2007 as our Controller and Chief Accounting Officer and she is a member of our Executive Committee.
I'm pleased to announce that Cathy while we continue our search for a permanent successor to David has accepted the role of Interim CFO.
We are fortunate to have someone with Cathy's continuity her commitment her experience and just overall strength of Cathy in this role.
So thank you very much for taking this on.
In terms of the agenda for the call David will take you through our fourth quarter and full-year results and then I'd like to take some time to talk about where we are with our – respect to our change efforts generally and provide some specifics on a couple of businesses including Technology.
David? Thanks Steve.
Thank you for the kind words and the opportunity to serve here.
Before I begin I want to thank the shareholders analysts and others on this call for the honor and privilege of serving you for the last 18 months.
I have tremendous respect for each of you your sophistication integrity and candor enriched every conversation.
And since I know that our audience on these calls include many of my FTI colleagues I again convey my thanks to all of you.
FTI's professionals are some of the most talented resourceful dedicated and resilient people I've ever had the good fortune to work with.
Thank you for everything you've done for me.
I wish you well.
Turning now to slide four revenues for Q4 were $442 million up 4% from the prior year and down 3% from Q3.
Excluding an estimated negative impact of foreign currency translation or FX revenues increased 6.3% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Full-year – quarter fully diluted GAAP EPS were $0.25 compared to $0.02 in the prior-year quarter and $0.25 in Q3.
As a reminder fourth quarter a year ago included a number of unusual items.
Adjusted EPS for Q4 were $0.24 which compared to $0.53 in Q3 and $0.04 in the prior-year quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA in 4Q was $35.2 million or 8% of revenues compared to $56 million or 12.3% of revenues in Q3 and $36.1 million or 8.5% revenues in the prior-year quarter.
For the year revenues were $1.78 billion up 1.3% compared to the prior year.
Excluding a 2.8% negative impact from FX organic revenue growth was 4.1% for the year.
2015 fully diluted EPS were $1.58 which included $19.6 million in debt extinguishment charges compared to $1.44 million in the prior year which included special charges – actually $1.44 EPS which included special charges of $16.3 million.
Adjusted EPS for 2015 were $1.84 up 12% compared to $1.64 last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the year was $205.8 million 11.6% of revenues which compares to $210.6 million or 12% of revenues in 2014.
Excluding an estimated 1.2% negative impact of FX adjusted EBITDA organic decline was 1.1%.
Turning to our segments on slide five in Corporate Finance &amp; Restructuring revenues in the quarter increased 19.9% or $18.5 million to $111.6 million compared to $93.1 million last year.
Excluding the estimated negative impact of FX revenues increased $21 million or 22.6% compared to the prior-year quarter.
As expected sequential revenues were down slightly 1.7% from Q3.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was $18.9 million or 17% of revenues compared to $9.9 million or 10.6% adjusted EBITDA margin in the prior-year quarter and $26.7 million or 23.5% margin in Q3 of this year.
For the full year adjusted segment EBITDA increased 62% moving from $55.5 million in adjusted segment EBITDA in 2014 to $90.1 million in adjusted segment EBITDA in 2015.
The Corp Fin year-over-year increases are obviously outstanding driven primarily by the tremendous strength in our distressed service offerings in our North American practice supported by improved profitability in Australia and EMEA partially offset by higher bad debt.
Sequentially EBITDA eased back with the slight seasonal decrease in revenue in North America and Asia-Pacific moderate pullback in utilization from the third quarter peak and increased SG&amp;A again driven predominantly by a bad debt reserve.
Turning to our outlook given our outperformance in 2015 we are more guarded in our outlook for 2016.
In 2016 we are looking for high-single to low-double-digit top-line growth in Corp Fin as initiatives across this segment continue to generate growth.
However we are not counting on the same level of higher-margin marquee bankruptcy.
We are also investing in building out our non-distressed capacity throughout the year and adding support staff to match the dramatic increase in both revenue and billable staff we experienced last year.
Thus we are looking for full-year EBITDA margins in the high teens producing a low-single-digit increase in 2016 EBITDA versus 2015.
In the first quarter we look for revenues to be slightly up versus fourth quarter with margin similar to fourth quarter levels.
In Forensic and Litigation Consulting or FLC revenues decreased 3.7% to $116.7 million in the quarter compared to $121 million in the prior-year quarter.
Revenues increased 0.5% from revenues of $116 million in Q3.
Revenue declines in the quarter versus prior year were driven by lower realized pricing and demand for our health solutions practice which were partially offset by gains driven by higher realized rates and demand for North American FEDA (10:31) services as mortgage-backed security cases started to ramp back up at the end of August and persisted throughout the fourth quarter.
We also saw a small pickup in investigations in our EMEA region.
Full-year revenues were essentially flat versus 2014.
Fourth quarter EBITDA was $8.8 million or 7.5% adjusted EBITDA margin compared to $19.4 million or 16.1% margin in the prior-year quarter.
The decline in adjusted segment EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter was primarily driven by lower utilization because of our investments in increased head count in our disputes and investigations practice.
The decrease in fourth quarter EBITDA margin was also due to declines in Health Solutions coupled with termination costs for a small number of highly-compensated employees.
On a sequential basis adjusted EBITDA fell 34.3% from $13.4 million 11.5% margin in Q3.
Turning to our outlook for FLC we are looking for a partial recovery in this segment in 2016 though not back to the record levels that we achieved in 2014.
We're looking for revenues flat to 2015 with margin recovery just slightly below the mid-teen level.
In the first quarter revenues should be flat to very slightly up sequentially from 4Q 2015 with significant margin recovery back to the low- to mid-teens level.
The restoration of margins will be supported by gradual head count growth a handful of already-executed cost reductions disposal of a small loss-making business in Latin America which also had the effect of reducing heads by roughly about 70 year-over-year and refocused execution in our healthcare business.
Our North American run rates so far in 2016 are consistent with the level of recovery required to deliver this plan.
All we need to do is to maintain that momentum and execute on relatively modest profit improvement goals overseas.
In Economic Consulting revenues increased 11.4% to $118.6 million in the quarter compared to $106.5 million in 2014.
Excluding the estimated negative impact of FX revenues increased $14 million or 13.2%.
Revenues were also up 3.5% sequentially from $114.5 million in Q3.
The increase in revenues for the quarter was driven by continued high demand for our M&amp;A-related antitrust and our international arbitration services both of which experienced strong growth both year-over-year and sequentially.
Some of the significant disclosed M&amp;A engagements we were involved with during this year included AT&amp;T/DirecTV Sysco/U.S.
Foods and Orbitz/Expedia.
This growth was only partially offset by a continued decline in demand for our non-M&amp;A-related antitrust litigation which declined both year-over-year and sequentially; and financial litigation which declined year-over-year but was up sequentially from third quarter a very good sign.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $18.8 million or 15.9% margin compared to $9.8 million or 9.2% margin in the prior-year quarter and $16.7 million or 14.5% margin in Q3.
Adjusted segment EBITDA margin returned to the mid-teens levels due to higher realized rates better utilization in some of our practices lower bad debt expense and the absence of a large state tax equalization employee benefit expense that we recorded last year in the fourth quarter.
We've curtailed that program and do not expect that sort of expense going forward.
We are cautiously optimistic going into 2016 with three of our four major practice areas in Econ increasing sequentially in the fourth quarter.
However this continues to be a volatile business and our current performance relies on continuing strong levels of strategic M&amp;A activity.
In our outlook we look for low-single-digit revenue growth in 2016 with low- to mid-teen EBITDA margins that are only slightly better than 2015.
First quarter 2016 revenues we see as being similar to the fourth quarter 2015 levels.
Just as we saw for the last two years first quarter margins should dip a couple of points below full-year run rates for 2016.
In the fourth quarter Technology revenues continued to decline dropping 20% to $46.6 million versus $58.2 million prior year and down $9 million from $55.6 million in the third quarter.
The decline in revenues was driven by a lower demand for consulting and other services related to large cross-border investigations and litigations and by lower realized pricing.
These were only partially offset by a higher demand for M&amp;A-related second request work.
Adjusted segment EBITDA for the quarter was $6 million or 12.8% margin compared to $13.3 million or 22.8% margin in the prior-year quarter and $10.8 million in 3Q.
Decline in adjusted segment EBITDA margin was due to lower utilization consulting lower realized pricing and consulting hosting and managed review.
Earlier this month we took actions to realign the Tech segment workforce to address the changing nature of this business and the ensuing competitive pressures.
These actions included the separation of approximately 50 employees including our segment leader and five SMDs.
This is about 10% of the segment's workforce.
We estimate the impact of these actions will result in a pre-tax income charge which will be recorded as a special charge in the area of $5 million in the first quarter of 2016.
Steve will speak about our ongoing strategic review of this business and our thoughts on our competitive position.
Financially our outlook assumes essentially flat financial performance in Technology in 2016 with low- to mid-single-digit shrinkage in the top line offset by modest margin improvement in the bottom line supported of course by the cost actions we took this month.
First quarter performance should also be very close to fourth quarter levels at both the top and the bottom line since the cost actions will not generate significant benefits until the second quarter.
Turning to Strategic Communications revenues increased 5.3% to $48.8 million in the quarter compared to $46.3 million last year.
They increased 10.4% year-over-year if we adjust for FX.
Sequentially revenues were down about $7 million but the decrease was more than 100% attributable to a drop in pass-through revenue versus 3Q where we had bulge due to a single large program.
Adjusted segment EBITDA was $7.6 million or 15.6% of segment revenues compared to $7.4 million or 16% margin in the prior-year quarter and $8.7 million 15.6% margin in Q3.
In our outlook we are looking for a return to top-line growth in Strat Comm in 2016 at the low-single-digit level.
Full-year margin should be consistent with 2015 full-year results.
First quarter is historically the weakest in this segment.
Again we look for very modest year-over-year revenue growth with low-double-digit first-quarter margin.
Turning to our geographies slide six.
I won't spend much time on this but 28.5% of revenues were from outside North America in the quarter consistent with Q4 2014 and Q4 2013.
For the year 26.8% of our revenues were from outside North America down about 1% from 27.6% in 2014.
Our primary growth engine in North America revenues for the year was largely strong demand for our distressed and non-distressed offerings in Corporate Finance &amp; Restructuring.
In EMEA our investments in transaction advisory and in tax and Corporate Finance helped both revenue and EBITDA in the quarter and year as did positive contributions from Economic Consulting.
Asia Pacific continued to drag due to the negative revenue contribution in Technology.
So EBITDA in the region for the fourth quarter again saw positive improvement year-over-year due to a lower cost structure in Australia.
And Latin America continued to be a bit slow.
Turning to slide seven our cash and cash equivalents were $149.8 million at quarter end.
Net cash provided by operating activities $139.9 million compared to cash operating activities of $135.4 million in prior-year quarter.
During the fourth quarter we spent $26.5 million to repurchase shares at an average price of $34.7 under our current $50 million share repurchase authorization.
Our guidance assumes we complete the program this year but assumes no other capital actions.
The board will revisit this question after the current program is completed.
Turning to our 2016 outlook for the entire company we estimate that adjusted EPS will be between $1.90 and $2.15.
This guidance calls revenues between $1.8 billion and $1.85 billion.
Depreciation and amortization should run about $40 million and we currently estimate a tax rate between 37% and 38% similar to 2015.
But again caution that the tax rate can move particularly as we have shifts between U.S.
and overseas income.
Finally I'd like to speak to corporate expenses and investments.
We reported $77.7 million on this line for 2015 down from $80.8 million in 2014.
Our guidance anticipates a significant increase of roughly $15 million in 2016 which is 100% explained by an increase in our budget for corporate-sponsored investment.
First I'd like to speak about what we consider investment.
As Steve says in our business we invest EBITDA not capital.
So the $20 million-plus we have budgeted is for the earnings impact of these initiatives.
They're generally not capitalized.
Our most-important investments are incremental expansions of our practices into areas where we are creating a new product entering a new geography covering a major new category of clients or increasing our billable resources more than we would in the ordinary course to cover a perceived significant new opportunity.
Generally this type of work is done in our segment and this sort of investment and the cost of it is reported in their direct cost lines and to a lesser extent in SG&amp;A.
Providing growth in a segment's reporting between the incremental practice growth that they do ordinary course and growth spurred by this type of the strategic investments is hard to do.
But I think we can safely say that both FLC and Corporate Finance expects several million of EBITDA contribution in 2016 from practice investments of this type as they've reported in their regular results.
However in addition we maintain a fund at the corporate level for activities of investments like this that segments aren't able to absorb in their regular budgets or investments in activities and practice expansion that span multiple segments.
We'd hope to fund $5 million to $10 million of this type of investment in 2015 from the corporate fund.
Ultimately we spent less than $1 million in the corporate fund in this category.
Some of this practice expansion spend that we had contemplated is only delayed and will now happen in 2016.
Also some of the projects that we funded or intended to fund launched so quickly and so successfully that they turned out not to require any material investment to win.
An excellent example of this is our new initiative in Activism and M&amp;A Solutions which we were prepared to fund heavily but they turned out not to need it.
This one-stop shop for consulting on activist engagements and M&amp;A is a unique service that only FTI can deliver.
We bring to the table an investigative forensic and international communications capability that takes activist work far beyond traditional financial analysis.
We offer an integrated team from our different segments.
And we are able to provide for our clients their legal and banking advisors expertise and resources that can shift the balance to an – in an Activism or a hostile M&amp;A engagement.
Our experts in forensic accounting and background investigations industry operations government affairs restructuring and strategic communications have already made a significant impact in many of the successful marquee activist and M&amp;A defense situations of 2014 and 2015 including Allergan against Pershing Square and Valeant; Perrigo in its defense against Mylan; and Shire in connection with ABBV.
As we continue to execute for more clients in 2016 we expect to add several million of revenue to what we've already earned in this space and we have great expectations going forward.
This is a perfect example of what we mean by practice expansion investment.
We were very fortunate that we were able to launch successfully without having to spend money but we hope to find more of these projects in 2016.
So while we weren't able to fund a lot of those or they turned out not to need money in 2015 we now have a real pipeline of roughly $5 million in cost that we will fund in the corporate line for initiatives just like Activism that we are spending money on in the first quarter of 2016.
We'd like to find $5 million more but we will not spend the money if good opportunities are not available.
So that's $5 million to $10 million for practice expansion corporate-funded investment.
In addition we've evaluated our IT capabilities in 2015 outside of those in the Technology segment to support our overall operations at FTI.
We have allocated roughly $5 million of investment resources for potential action in 2016 in this area.
First we are investigating a potential outsourcing of a portion of our IT infrastructure.
While we have not made a decision to do this there would be several million of transition costs this year if we went forward.
Second we are evaluating replacement of our financial and operation application particularly finance where our core systems very much need to be modernized.
And third as Steve will discuss we now have an exciting new opportunity to continue to invest in our new Radiance and our existing Ringtail software offerings in support of our technology strategy.
This could easily consume the balance of the $20 million-plus of investment funds that we are allocating and incorporating in our guidance in the corporate segment.
So with that I will be handing the finance function role to Cathy Freeman who I have absolute complete confidence in and so should you.
And I hand the call back to Steve.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you David.
Thank you for this report and once again thank you for your service to our company.
I'd like to perhaps before we go to Q&amp;A take the conversation up a level and talk a little bit about where I see us in the overall change agenda.
As David said this year we delivered double-digit EPS gain and in fact the best year-over-year improvement in EPS since 2009.
Now to be fair that was also off of base that I and I suspect many of you think was unacceptable.
And therein I think lies where we are.
It's a clear sign of progress major progress a progress that we need to and intend to continue and that's what I'd like to talk about for the next few minutes.
As you know we are engaged in a significant change effort and it's one that will continue this year.
I do want to underscore we are not engaged in a turnaround.
In most of our businesses and geographies we have amazing professionals and strong market positions.
There are a fair number of fixed elements to our change agenda but in many ways this is more about figuring out where we attract value or where we pay too little attention to value-creating opportunities or opportunities to bet behind our terrific professionals.
And doing the work begin to liberate that value allow the great group of professionals to flourish to create shareholder value and to create a more vibrant growing company.
This year one of the most exciting things is that progress is beginning to become visible.
In a very high percentage of the areas we discussed in the past whether it's at the center or in the segments or in the regions the changes that people are driving are working or at least showing major progress.
And by now in many places progress is sufficiently large to become visible.
You can see that on some of our cross-company thrust for example organic growth we clearly have much more upside on organic growth and we are now moving in the right direction.
Excluding the impact of FX we're up 10% cumulatively organically over the last two years.
Similarly in terms of rebuilding our pipeline and leverage ratios we grew our head count about 7% this year and 98% of that growth was below the SMD level.
We have a slow start on that but we are now making real progress.
And as we've discussed a couple of times with respect to capital allocation we said we're going to be disciplined and we have been.
As a result we have cash cash available to retire debt and repurchase stock which has left us with substantial EPS benefit for this coming year without leveraging up our balance sheet.
And to the contrary we've had a substantial deleveraging of our balance sheet and we have the ability to use cash in similar accretive moves and ways going forward.
But at least as important and exciting as the stuff we are doing company-wide we also see progress in the individual segments in the regions in the sub-parts of our practices and initiatives that group of our professionals are driving.
And I can't go through all of those but I will just highlight a couple.
Strat Comm as you know we've put in place a major change of program 18 months ago which the team embraced and came up with.
It's driven a 48% increase in adjusted EBITDA from 2013 to 2015.
And at least as important the foundation we now have in that business is much more powerful.
Similarly in Corporate Finance &amp; Restructuring where we reinvested in our core retail and TMT practices we made significant bets overseas and in our non-distressed services as David said we delivered a 62% year-over-year increase in adjusted segment EBITDA.
And those are just two examples which are the most visible and vivid on an aggregate basis.
But in fact in most places around the company we now have teams who are not executing but also driving major change agendas with increasingly visible results.
There is a technical delay while I'm trying to get my video back so I can see David in a remote location.
So I'm pretty – I am – obviously you can tell by the tone of the voice I'm pleased with the progress we're making and I'm excited about what people are driving.
Having said that and this is again the yin and yang of where we are I want to underscore we're still in a major change effort and we are a company with a lot of work to do.
And one sobering but important way to look at that is to look at EBITDA.
Now if you want to look at it positively you can clearly see that we've changed the trajectory.
We were a company that averaged $20 million decline in adjusted EBITDA from 2009 to 2014.
It's $20 million a year.
And we did that despite reinvesting substantial amounts of cash in acquisitions which typically contribute to EBITDA.
So if you want to look at progress it's clear we slowed that decline dramatically and we slowed that decline even while essentially cutting out the masking effects of acquisitions.
So that's progress.
On the other hand we only slowed that decline.
We have not yet achieved a year-over-year increase in EBITDA at the company level nor are we confident enough yet to forecast that for this year at least not with the reinvestments in new initiatives to stimulate growth that we believe are powerful.
For me before we can declare victory on this first phase of the change journey we need to move the company to position where we are confident that across our businesses we can grow EBITDA organically on a sustained basis.
That is a step we are much closer to but we are not yet there.
Back to the positive even with a modest drag at the EBITDA line given the deleveraging we've done if we hit the midpoint of our guidance range we will have the second year in a row of double-digit EPS growth.
The first two-year run since 2007 to 2009.
So we are looking even while continuing this major change program even while investing to show strong performance this year.
Before I close I'd like to get a little more granular about two businesses; one that had a terrific year and one that didn't.
With respect to Corporate Financing &amp; Restructuring as David said our strong 2015 is leading us to be cautious in our forecast for this year.
Although the market was up a bit last year our data would suggest that we were up more than the market with a disproportionate share of large distressed wins.
Therefore we are not forecasting substantial gains this year.
As you know in 2015 we made the mistake of forecasting huge gains in another segment two years in a row and without really diving in enough to the root causes and what would run off and so forth.
And we are not going to do that again.
But the sobriety of our outlook is not driven by a lack of confidence or a lack of success.
To the contrary our results give us confidence that we are in the best position we have been in a long while for sustained strong performance.
Our caution for 2016 is really driven by the level of outperformance of this business in 2015.
Our Technology business is a more complicated story.
On a tactical level we clearly did not fully anticipate the revenue challenges that confronted of this business in 2015 particularly in the back half of the year.
So we sold a lot of work and some huge historical assignments rolled up we replaced those with more medium and small assignments.
And as a consequence our revenue came in almost $50 million $50 million below our forecast from the beginning of the year.
Our aggressive selling efforts are showing good results they are stabilizing our business at a much lower run rate than we had aspired to at the beginning of 2015.
As a consequence we had to rationalize costs and we did so.
Given the shortfalls of sales from changing market dynamics and some other important conversations internally we also undertook a fundamental strategic look at this business.
There's where it gets interesting.
Perhaps paradoxically the more we look at this business the more excited we've gotten about the potential to drive this business and create value here.
And so let me give you a feel for that thinking and the current state of play of the thought as this is an area that's going to occupy significant focus this year.
As many of you know within Tech we have really two businesses.
One is a software business.
Software business that many people believe has the best e-discovery software in the world called Ringtail.
It is certainly the best software for the most-complicated assignments.
It's one of the two highest-ranked leaders in Gartner's Magic Quadrant e-discovery software as well as the top-ranked software for legal review in another of Gartner's reports called Critical Capabilities for E-Discovery software.
That's the one business.
The second business is a consulting and services business that leverages Ringtail to actually deliver services to law firms and for corporates.
That business has a number of amazing professionals people who are viewed as the most-outstanding consultants in this field and are heavily in demand for the most-complicated assignments.
Historically we have pursued a very integrated approach where we viewed keeping our software essentially for ourselves on almost a proprietary basis and viewed that as the key to our competitive advantage.
This strategy meant that we of course didn't go look for channel partners people who competed with our services and in fact we didn't retain many.
More fundamentally that strategy meant we didn't treat this asset as I believe a software company would as an incredibly valuable asset that we need to make available for as many players as possible.
We instead used it as an adjunct to our consulting business and to be fair successfully so.
It was a strategy that worked very well when this was a more fragmented industry and everybody wanted his own software and a lot of players were following the same direction.
At this point in time it's becoming clear that most players who are combined software and services providers have not been able to keep up with us and the other major competitor in terms of R&amp;D and are being forced to back away from their software efforts.
The software market is increasingly consolidating and we see ourselves as one of two maybe three players that has a chance of being the leading software provider for an extended period of time.
So we are actively exploring how to do that.
The core of that strategy and this is work in progress so assuming we pursue it is that we're going to have make our software available in a neutral way to other parties not just ourselves.
And as you imagine that's a pretty radical move from where we've been in the past in the sense that doing so will mean we have to actively seek out and support channel partners.
It would also require some changes enhancements to make it easy for other people to customize the software in a way they want adding a software sales force expanding channel support – support for channel partners and a bunch of things like that.
Importantly for this year's budget all of those changes would come with significant upfront costs R&amp;D the cost of a software focused sales the cost associated with supporting third-parties in a way that we haven't.
Having said that if the strategic analysis that is underway holds up these are actions we are prepared to take.
It would require a real investment.
Some of it would be capitalized but a lot of it would come out of this investment fund that David was talking about.
But we believe we have the best software in the market and we believe that holding it to ourselves is neither a long-term sensible strategy nor a value-maximizing one.
That is about as much as I can say at this point in time on our thinking to maximize the Ringtail opportunities but we'll obviously update you as the thinking progresses.
And one other point regarding Technology Ringtail is not the only software investment we're making.
At LegalTech we introduced another piece of amazing software which we've been investing behind called Radiance which is in a different adjacent space called information governance.
That is also a key investment area that some of you have asked about but we couldn't talk about before for competitive reasons.
This is a potentially revolutionary technology that we believe can be extraordinarily valuable down the road.
And the initial reception of the product from our target audience exceeded our expectations.
So once again you should understand that is a hit to our P&amp;L right now not a benefit a hit both in terms of R&amp;D and marketing and sales and will be for this year and likely into next year.
But it is an investment we're excited about long term.
We look forward to keeping you in the loop on this as well as we push the thinking ahead.
Before we get to questions let me just close perhaps where I started.
We are in the midst of a major change agenda.
It's underway.
It's a multiyear change agenda.
And there are lots of issues associated with a change agenda.
There's a chance of disruption in addition to normal market volatility and there is an enormous amount of work to do.
But the good thing is it's enormous amount of work behind an incredible company a company with great professionals people who are committed and it's work behind a company that I believe is finally starting to realize that potential.
Some places we are not as far along as I would like probably every place as always I think we can do better but we are moving.
And this business is moving ahead.
Change journey means sometimes it's stressful to be here.
There's so much work to do.
But it's also most days a real joy.
I look forward to where we're taking this company and I look forward to being on this ride with many of you.
With that let me open the floor for questions.
We'll go first with Randy Reece with Avondale Partners.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Randy.
I'll make this quick.
It's probably noisy where I am.
I wanted to know what you can tell me about the difference in revenue performance in 2015 between software and services in the Technology segment.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think I'll take that if I can although David or Cathy correct me if I get the numbers wrong.
But Randy truthfully we don't really sell the software.
We have some people who have licensed it for a long time and that's a pretty constant revenue stream.
But historically we haven't.
And so what we're selling is a bundled offering of our consultants typically working on Ringtail.
And so that bundled offering is what has dropped.
It's not that we had any of the prior stream of licenses who dropped but nor did we pursue this strategy last year.
We have not been out there actively trying to license it.
So that's a forward-looking thing.
So that question will become relevant as we pursue – if we end up pursuing this strategy: are you making progress are people licensing and all that sort of stuff.
But over the past 12 months it was the bundled offering essentially that was the drop.
Does that answer your question Randy? Yes.
And I was also wondering if you could quantify the magnitude of the severance expenses in FLC.
I don't know if you touched on the exact numbers there before.
I was just wondering how unusual the level of severance expense was compared with normal? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Back to you David.
Yeah.
Just a moment.
Yeah it's a minor amount.
I mean less than $1 million for Q4.
All right.
Thank you very much.
It has a variance (43:19) but not a big number.
All right.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Randy.
And we'll go next to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Tim.
Yeah.
Good morning.
On Technology can you still own that business if you're trying to both compete with and license the software to competitors? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's obviously an important question.
We intend to own the business.
One of the questions is: will we be credible with competitors if we own 100% of it? And that's a real question.
And I'd love to continue to own 100% but if this strategy looks as promising as we think it does and to be credible with channel partners we need to sell a share we will consider that.
I'd prefer it to be a minority share because I really think this is a pretty good asset.
But if the strategy requires creating that distance and separation then we will do that and we just need to figure that out over the next couple of months.
Does that answer your question? Sure.
And then I guess on the distressed comments about 2016 can you just I think reconcile? I understand you're trying not to compound on top of compounding but in the market I mean I have seen several kind of higher-profile cases in the last couple of months you guys still seem to be adding – obviously the stress in the energy market continues to build.
So why wouldn't that continue to lead to a healthy amount of distressed work for you guys? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well – yeah I'll take that again.
It will lead to a healthy amount of the distressed work.
The issue is only what share we won last year.
I mean go back and look at the last year at some of the major deals and try to find which ones we weren't participating in and then in some of the retail stuff just how much share we gained.
I think what we're trying to do is – and we've taken a much deeper dive this year into testing our assumptions for growth and not just sort of extending lines.
And we feel pretty confident where we are in Corp Fin.
On the other hand we think we outperformed the market substantially last year and I'm not one for betting that we just automatically outperform the market every year.
Sometimes that balances out and that's the issue but it's not a lack of confidence in that business nor is it – I do think that the second half of this year will be a stronger business for the industry because of some of the energy stuff that's going on.
But there is a share dynamic and I think we may have performed at a level that you can't just assume going forward and hence it's averaging out of those two things Tim.
Does that make sense? Sure.
And then I guess lastly just you touched on it that EBITDA still declining and I guess it implies it's going to decline this year.
You've resisted kind of wanting to set a margin target because you've talked about just growth in – you'd rather focus on growth in EBITDA dollars.
But with EBITDA still declining can you talk in some – I guess whatever fashion it is about kind of the returns on these investments not just obviously the ones you're just making now but the last few years? And I think I get that question a lot about really the efficiency I guess of the organization and I guess how that's being balanced against desire to investment in various things? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well that's a multi-pronged question.
Look we can go through some of the investments.
I have to say – I would say that the issues over the last couple of years have had very little to do with those investments.
Almost – I would say on average they have outperformed my expectations.
The issues we've had over the last couple of years is us stumbling over things under rocks that we didn't know about that in some places you couldn't know about some places we could have been better at knowing about and that sort of stuff.
Where we've invested most places it's worked.
Some places we got ahead of our skis in FLC some of the head count increase we got six months too early or 12 months too early and that happens.
But some other places actually the head count got picked up faster like our Corp Fin head count just got picked up much faster than we had a reason to expect.
And then some of the more specific bets some of the investment we did in building our practice in Corp Fin in Europe and we talked about in transaction advisory service and an tax service and our investment in non-distressed in the U.S.
I mean these things are exciting and they're working.
So I think that's working.
I think the issue we just need to grapple with is two things Tim.
One is – and I don't know how – whether you guys as analysts do this but it's always useful to sometimes take out the masking effect of acquisitions on EBITDA right.
I mean when people buy companies that drives up EBITDA it's sometimes interesting to go look at companies and said if they hadn't bought that what would the EBITDA be looking like.
And in our case even with the acquisitions we were dropping at $20 million a year even with the acquisition.
And I'm not allowing the masking effect of acquisitions and now we're down single-digit drops.
Is single-digit drops what I want? Absolutely not.
But if we make enough of these investments work those numbers are coming up and those numbers will be coming up in 2017 2018 2019 if we do the right things without necessarily using the cash.
The cash becomes accretive on top of that.
And if you have those two things going you're creating a world-class engine for performance and that's what we're trying to do here.
But you're right about the numbers.
Right now when you take into account the investment we're planning to make this year our forecast is down a bit on the EBITDA line offset by the powerful use of cash.
The last thing I'd just say on that I'm sorry for the long answer what we're focused on is targeting and turning this company into a sustained double-digit EPS growth company.
And I mean a sustained double-digit EPS without gains on the balance sheet that increase leverage.
We got double-digit this year while decreasing leverage.
And our goal going forward will be to try to get on a sustained basis double-digit EPS and that's probably the metric we're most looking at.
Long answer but did that at least somewhat answer what you're looking for Tim? I guess somewhat.
Are you confident that this is the last year for I guess the EBITDA declining then given the investments? You alluded to that I mean you'd see better trends in 2017 2018 and 2019.
So just to be clear I mean are we – as you foresee the need for investment I guess how comfortable are you with that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
The goal here is to continue to invest every year.
Now the goal is with the investment to turn the EBITDA line to positive and that is the goal subsequent this year's.
Did that answer? Yeah.
All right.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Nice to talk with you.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Dave Gold for Sidoti.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning David.
So just couple of questions.
One just point to follow-up going back to the restructuring piece in Tim's question I guess from the outside looking in as you might imagine the area where most folks look to the success you're having in the environment in the markets and even given the positive market share I guess the question here is do you have a view related to that business are you thinking that the economy improves and we see less or you think there is more and we just can't maintain the market share that we saw last year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think any of us are forecasting that the economy is dramatically improving.
I mean the bankruptcy as a whole is not surging.
It's individual sectors that is surging.
Actually on a multi-year level it's still relatively low.
But it's a couple of sectors that are surging.
Obviously there is a chance that we – people are terrible at forecasting oil prices right? So there is always a chance that oil prices are back to $100 in which case the bottom falls out of that business but we're not forecasting that as well.
I mean I think our view is basically the view that you all seem to be indicating that in certain sectors this will be hot – certain sectors this will be a hot restructuring market particularly in the second half of the year and other sectors will be as dead as they have been.
And so our issue here purely is a share issue of having outperformed last year David.
Does that answer? Yeah it does.
And then the second half of that question is you spoke about making some investments on the Corporate Finance side of that business.
Can you give us a sense on what areas or what types of practices you might look to build out there on the Corporate Finance side? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Rather than dominate let David take that one.
I think it's just across the board adding billable staff in areas again trying to stay in line with the – stay up with the demand as opposed to getting significantly ahead of demand we're trying to be measured.
But particularly I think actually interestingly in non-distressed we have some hopes to add capacity there.
We'll be carefully monitoring that versus demand.
But we're doing pretty well there and it's been masked in some ways by how significant the success in distressed has been.
But that's been a steady opportunity.
We've been investing in growing revenue and we expect that to continue in 2016 that and then also some marginal increases overseas in EMEA.
Just generally across the board in the areas where we are expecting continued steady growth in the Corporate Finance practice.
Got you.
Got you.
Okay.
And then Steve one broader one.
When I think back to the Analyst Day in mid-2014 remember thinking of that moment as we went through some of the initiatives that you were funding that if even half of the initiatives you were looking at worked I think we had a good shot of achieving that $250 million plus in 2016.
And now as we get here and we look and say maybe it's more of an aspirational 2017 target maybe we're a little earlier on that.
Obviously there were some market forces but can you speak a little bit to what the biggest variances were that basically didn't quite get us to where we hoped to be for this year? I mean is it – obviously some market but not entirely market.
So can you just give some color there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> David thanks for that.
As you might imagine it's a question that I have asked – looked in too hard and has got my stomach turning a fair amount.
Just on a personal note I have never in my life missed a target certainly not by any significant margin.
And so that's significant – it's usually frustrating for you it's frustrating for me.
I think there are three different buckets you could talk about and I just want to separate those out all right.
I mean one is the market there is a little bit of that.
Candidly I am smart enough to have factored in the market.
The second is success and failure on the individual initiatives.
We're not actually doing worse than I thought we were going to.
Yes FLC is behind where I thought it was but it'll catch up.
Corp Fin is ahead of where I thought it was.
Candidly the mistake the big the bucket and it's a whole series of things in there was overestimating how clearly I understood the baseline of the business and how fast some fixed agendas would get done.
There was stuff we didn't actually even know on some cost stuff that was much more significant than I thought I mean and which is not so good right at that time it's eight months in and we're having a CFO transition and I didn't know some of the stuff I should have known.
There was naiveté in some other places where there were cost increases.
There was naiveté about how huge sales increases would overcome those – the impacts of contracts that have been signed several years earlier that were about to come to fore and those sales increases were naïve.
And at that point you don't know who is over-optimist.
And then there was some naiveté about how fast we've fixed some places that were broken around like for example our Australia acquisitions which by that time were beginning to be clear that they were broken.
But the expectation was it was a quick fix.
So that's pretty sobering.
But the reason I want to underscore that because it's made me more humble David.
But I do want to underscore that bucket because I think I'm now two years into this company and you never want to believe everything and that you've turned over all the rocks.
But there aren't that many left to turn over and I believe we've improved a lot of processes.
We dig deeper into some stuff.
We challenge stuff.
We don't just have to sort of bottoms-up forecasts.
We have a much more aggressive challenging process at this point in time.
And I believe we have much more sound budgets at this point than we did at that point in time.
And the other thing is the places where we have been investing are generally pulling out.
It's just off of a lower base than I expected to be on.
So that's – I could probably do a two-hour version of this and maybe couple of days with the strength but does that work for you on this call David? It does.
It's definitely helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
This is Ato Garrett on for Paul.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Welcome.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
One question on your healthcare practice the some of the headwinds that you said that you saw there in the fourth quarter was that broad based or was that more specific to like some client-specific delays or projects winding down? I think it was – that business is a relatively small one.
And so they have certain lumpiness in their revenue cycle having to do with the staging of kind of initial evaluations versus follow-on work that they often are awarded after the initial evaluation.
And we had less kind of business in that two-staged pipeline that produced in the fourth quarter.
But I think that they've got a lot of things underway and the pipeline is just filling out nicely and it gives us confidence that they should be able to deliver more smoothly in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And looking out...
And also obviously had a little bit of cost actions but that didn't hit the revenue.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And for Corporate Finance &amp; Restructuring the strong results you had in the fourth quarter and some of the predictions you have around I guess not necessarily repeating the same outsized market share gains.
Were your results – do they have a larger normal contribution from success fees or completion fees or is a lot of that like just time and billing – time and expense billing arrangements as I start to think about kind of step down we might see in 2016? Yeah.
No there wasn't a significant contribution or unusual contribution from the success fees in the fourth quarter.
I think the real difference is that when you have very large marquee major projects in bankruptcies in particular the utilization just spikes up.
And as you know in this business your margins have a outsized benefit relative to the revenue when you go very high utilization on a large massive matter and particularly in the first three quarters of 2015 we benefited from that.
It took our margins up about 20%.
That's really driven by both the pricing and the high utilization of the biggest marquee-type matters.
So it's not just the amount but it's the mix and the margin impact that we're not culling as much benefit from in 2016.
We're definitely expecting to grow and we're expecting to see both good distressed and non-distressed business but we're not envisioning the same sort of margin surges that you get when you really win the big ones disproportionately.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And lastly looking at the incremental $15 million of investments that you're doing on the corporate line in 2016 you gave a great disaggregation of that.
I want to make sure that I have them there.
That looks like $5 million is tied to a Tech and IT another $5 million related to your practice expansion initiatives and that has like a potential another $5 million behind it as well.
Is that the right way to break that up? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think David gave you an overview.
Maybe I can take that question because I think to be clear that's a – David gave you a cut at one way it could sort out.
This reports all written (1:02:19) have gone through the stuff in front of him he's got $35 million of potential requests in front of him.
And they range from $5 million of the type that David was talking about we have behind the activist investor.
There's a bunch of corporate stuff around systems few other smaller corporate things.
There's a lot that we could potentially end up spending behind Tech.
And then there's some strategic looks we want to do for market expansions where we may use a little bit of outside help and which is another bucket.
The whole of it is substantially higher than what we have got in the budget.
But usually what happens is you sort it down both because the priorities aren't there and it's not ready or you look at people in the eyes and you don't think they're going to deliver.
And so I think David gave you a cut at one way it would break out.
I think that's stuff has changed each of the last two years.
It's changed during the course of the year a bit.
David does that sound fair to you? Well I think it's an extremely good point Steve that this will be dynamic and that just because we've allowed in our guidance $20 million-plus of room for these types of investments just as in 2015 if the opportunity is not there then we won't spend the money.
But yes the – and I would say in particular with a range of practice expansion probably a minimum of $5 million but with opportunity and lack of competing investments we could go to $10 million.
And similarly the investment in support of the Technology strategic activity could easily be anywhere from $5 million to $10 million.
So those will definitely potentially shift in terms of one going down or one going up depending on the exact opportunity.
The $5 million of kind of corporate infrastructure investment is probably – but we haven't taken those decisions.
That if we move forward on that that will be much more in the line of a kind of a fixed budget spend that we would then expect to move forward with.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Tobey.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
With respect to the Technology and Ringtail would there be positive cash flow implications from taking on a partner? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You mean if we start licensing it to partners would there be positive cash flow implications? Absolutely.
Absolutely I mean...
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Or taking an investment in the business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well sure.
The question is how does that net against the investment we need to be making in this business is an interesting question.
But of course if to a prior question we're forced by the channel partner strategy to take on another investor obviously they would pay we presume a reasonable amount to have a chance to participate in that and that would be – I don't think that's an operating cash flow.
I will let David and Cathy talk about that.
I don't think we'd classify those as operating cash but as an inflow of cash.
Am I hearing your question right Tobey? Inc.</span></strong> I'm also curious about the ongoing CapEx.
It's been a pretty significant CapEx item historically and I'm wondering whether that burden would be lessened on a go-forward basis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I think the answer is the burden wouldn't be lessened but the point is the revenue base over which it would be amortized would be higher.
I mean that is clearly what's going on in this industry.
And to stay leading edge you have to spend a lot of money.
And if you look at it it used to be there were a lot of software providers and some of you know some of these players in-depth even if some of them are private.
My sense from the outside a lot of places people sort of have this software but they basically said I can't compete and they're not willing to invest the R&amp;D necessary to compete and we are.
But what I believe is in order to do that and to stay leading edge you need to not just be licensing it to ourselves.
So the goal of this would be to continue to invest in the R&amp;D and probably do some – as we said some significant add-ons this year.
But on an ongoing basis to continue to invest but the goal here is to amortize that over a lot more bigger ecosystem.
And you get a big revenue stream from licensing and that's pretty margin.
That's a high margin business.
So that's the goal.
Does that answer your question Tobey? Inc.</span></strong> I guess it does.
So there's external as well as internally-funded distribution channels on the table? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that's right.
I think...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
How much...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Selling to others on the outside is the thought we're thinking about yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
What is the expectation for CapEx this year and how much of it is Tech segment related? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> David or Cathy? Senior VP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Yes.
Cathy will take that.
Senior VP &amp; Controller</span></strong> I think we've disclosed in the K a range of about $35 million to $45 million.
We don't disclose specifically what's Tech related but some of that number will shift towards Tech as part of the R&amp;D expense that they experienced this year turns into capital.
But it's included in that range that we talked about.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you give us a historic range if not for 2016 about how much was Tech related? I don't think we've ever disclosed that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But I would say look this is a pretty – outside of Technology this is a pretty simple business.
It's furniture and fixtures and it's laptops for the practitioners.
But it's not 90% Tech either.
Senior VP &amp; Controller</span></strong> No.
But I mean the point – I guess the global point is this company generates a lot of cash and has fairly simple CapEx need for a practice with approaching $2 billion of revenue.
So we're not constrained in our ability to make capital investments should we need to.
And even with the kind of the run rate we're on in terms of plans for Technology coming out of 2015 it's a very manageable amount of capital expenditures.
If we needed to increase that it's well within our resources.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Steve to what extent can you share junior staff among segments so that positive cyclical swings kind of like the one that Corp Fin &amp; Restructuring is experiencing now don't have to always result in a one-for-one addition of new headcounts in order to meet that demand.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look the obvious answer is we can do more than we have in the past.
Now we don't have all the same segments and obviously it's not just segments but geography.
If you have extra heads in Australia it's not quite so easy to have them staffed on cases in New York right.
So it's all those sorts of issues.
And what you need to be a leader in Strat Comm is different than what you need to be a strong junior person in our Econ business.
But obviously you picked on two areas where the question sort of leaps out at you which is junior staff in FLC and junior staff in Corp Fin with many of whom places where we recruit from the same background and it's an issue we're looking at.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And how would you characterize big project risks in the P&amp;L today and maybe contrast it with a year or two ago? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look I think there is always big project risk.
And that's one reason why we have a range on our guidance right.
I would say that I think we're doing a better job of understanding the distribution of those risks than we have in the past.
There is risk on the upside that you get a lot of jobs and there is also risk on a downside that some major assignments settles which is great for the client but that means you have an abrupt end to your revenue stream.
And I think we've historically thought those were kind of symmetrical.
And when you really look at it actually the ending thing happens faster than the ramp-up stuff and so forth.
And so we've done -one of the things we've done over the last months is try to get a little bit more analytical about where we've missed in the past on our budgets and correct for some of those.
So I would say on average I believe we have more disciplined budgets right now and are doing a better job of trying to calibrate those risks than we have in the past five years including during the first couple of years when I was here.
So does that mean we are perfect? No.
And will I probably – if I'm here for the next five years will I come up in front of you and say wow we got blindsided by that almost certainly because it's just there is a randomness to this business but it's not quite as random as we've been whipsawed by and we're trying to tighten that.
Does that answer? Inc.</span></strong> Yes it does.
And my last question just has to go with the collection of businesses again.
You learn something about technology and have a thought process to kind of unlock some value in there that maybe you weren't capturing historically.
I get a lot of questions about the fact that there are five reporting segments that don't share all the same drivers.
And for a company of this size and the stock of this size may be that seems like a long conversation to walk through it all for some investors.
Is this new thought about how to leverage Tech is this a first step or are you still persuaded two years plus on the job that this collection of businesses is still sort of the appropriate framework to move forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll take that unless David you were waving did you – that was in the last question okay.
As we are at the separate locations we have a video screen up so we're trying to figure out who's taking the question.
So I didn't know whether David was taking that.
Look as I say internally any – I love my house and I'm not going to sell my house because my kids grew up there.
On the other hand if somebody comes along and offers me stupid money for my house I will listen.
And so that's always the case.
And as a CEO of any major company that's the responsibility you have to the shareholders.
But the other reason why people sell businesses is because they don't have confidence in those businesses.
And I think that's the more often reason why people sell businesses.
And I was worried about that when I first came in and that was the first gig right and some of you said Jesus we can't do anything with Strat Comm with the whipping boy of the day and you should be dumping that.
And every business I've looked at we have real opportunities to build those businesses.
And where we have those I don't spend a lot of time trying to think about selling those businesses.
And that's where we are on all of our businesses today.
We have real upside.
There has been a lot of value that we could have created over time and that we can create going forward.
And that's what the management team and I are focusing on and we're getting tighter and tighter on and more effective at focusing going forward.
So that is my focus going forward here.
Now if you want to come along and have somebody offer us the Google valuations for any – my house by the way I'm happy to listen to it.
But other than that I'm not looking to dump any of these businesses and I'm looking to create the value out of them.
And let me use that to close on a key point.
I believe if we do – we don't have to be perfect.
If we do the right things with most of our businesses most times on these decks we (1:15:11) don't have to have perfection and we continue to improve these businesses in a significant way.
We're disciplined.
We're a little bit more rigorous on our planning processes.
So we know when we're kidding ourselves and we stay disciplined with the cash except when the right acquisition comes along which will be periodically but we're disciplined we will turn this company into sustained double-digit EPS growth.
And that is a pretty good performance and I we're not far from that.
In fact we have a shot this year of being the first time in two years – first time since the 2007 and 2009 to be two years in a row.
And we're looking by the end of this year to put ourselves in a platform for sustained double-digit growth.
I think we can do that without dumping businesses and that's the way we're thinking right now Tobey.
Does that clear? Inc.</span></strong> It does.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
I think we're over with questions.
I just want to say thank you all for joining the call and we're looking forward to this year and we look forward to engaging with you during the course of this year.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.