Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to host Aarti Bowman.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement with announced earnings as well as the slide presentation we used in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking statements and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcements materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and it is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Greg Jardine will be available with Bryan and BJ for your questions.
With that I'll turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
I'm pleased with the progress we've made.
Our core business has showed solid performance.
We made good headway in our efficiency initiatives credit quality improved notably and we maintained our strong capital position.
In other words we're executing on our key priorities for 2011 and are getting back to blocking and tackling.
As first quarter results show we are gradually optimizing our business mix taking steps to build our higher-return Regional Banking and Capital Markets businesses while continuing to wind down the lower margin in non-Strategic segment.
The Regional Bank's pretax income rose 4% linked quarter and moved from a pretax loss to a pretax profit year-over-year.
Capital markets' performance remains solid.
The non-Strategic segment continued to be less of a drag on our overall results.
Our proactive steps to identify and provide for problem credits are paying off as we were able to sharply reduce the loan loss provision as credit trends improved.
In fact the Regional Bank booked a provision credit in the first quarter.
At quarter's end we maintained a reserve of 3.7% of total loans.
Revenue trends in the Regional Bank were also encouraging despite ongoing environmental challenges.
Linked-quarter revenues declined from unfavorable seasonal impacts from lower NSF fees a shorter day count and a lower level of earning assets.
Our bankers' intensified calling efforts along with emphasis on customer service are helping us deepen and expand profitable customer relationships.
The Regional Bank's loan activity has been good.
As a result we're seeing a positive shift in the loan mix with attractively priced growth in our corporate asset-based lending and CRE portfolios.
Total loans though were down linked quarter due to a decrease in loans to mortgage companies as mortgage refis slowed from the rise in interest rates.
Pricing on new loans remained favorable as spreads were up 9 basis points linked quarter and at 29 basis points above a year ago.
We will continue to improve our bank's balance sheet composition as we focus on a diversified appropriately-priced Loan portfolio.
Even though the current environment is competitive we plan to stay disciplined with our loan pricing structure while continuing to build market share.
We're focused on winning good relationship-oriented customers which should help us generate better revenues and fee income.
Our Capital Markets business continues to be a strong contributor to fee income.
As expected average daily revenues were in the range of our normalized levels at $1.3 million in the first quarter.
Capital Markets' return on asset was approximately 3% and we expect it to remain a high-return business for us.
Losses on our non-Strategic segment narrowed reflecting lower credit costs and a decline in mortgage repurchase expense.
We signed agreements to sell our First Horizon Insurance and Highland Capital businesses in the first quarter reflecting our continued emphasis on improving profitability and returns.
We also made progress in improving productivity and efficiency with consolidated expenses dropping year-over-year and linked quarter.
There is clearly more work to be done but we're well on our way toward implementing initiatives that should save us more than $100 million annually by 2012.
Approximately 40% to 50% of the targeted savings are currently in our run rate as BJ will discuss in more detail.
We are committed to rightsizing our expense base with the same vigor that we addressed our capital position and our proactive stands on credit quality.
Credit quality notably improved in the first quarter with total provision cost of only $1 million.
Improvement was broad-based across our portfolios.
We're experiencing more upgrades and fewer downgrades.
In our income CRE portfolio we're seeing stabilizing property values as well as guarantors and sponsors stepping up.
Our C&amp;I Consumer portfolios benefited from an improving economic environment.
Enhanced efforts in technological upgrades in our collections process helped mitigate losses in our Consumer portfolio.
As a result overall net loan charge offs and non-performers were down in the first quarter to the lowest levels in 3 years.
Our capital position remains strong.
During the first quarter we repurchased a warrant issued to the treasury in 2008.
We also declared a $0.01 per share quarterly cash dividend.
We will continue to manage our capital smartly balancing needs and opportunities as we strive to enhance our shareholders' long-term returns.
To sum up first quarter results were on track with our expectations.
We are successfully executing our strategic priorities and are committed to continued successful execution in what is likely to be a slow growth low interest rate economic environment this year.
I'll be back for some closing comments and BJ will now take you through the detailed financial results for the quarter.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 5.
As Bryan mentioned net income available to common shareholders was $40 million compared with a loss of $49 million in 4Q '10.
Included in first quarter's numbers were consolidated pretax income of $54 million and core business pretax income of $78 million.
We also had some significant items which you can see at the bottom of the slide this quarter which I'll discuss in a few minutes during our segment highlights.
If you turn to Slide 6 this shows our consolidated financial results.
Again diluted EPS was $0.15 a share up from fourth quarter's loss of $0.20 a share.
If you look at our net interest income it was down primarily due to shorter day count as well as loans to mortgage companies.
Noninterest income excluding securities gains climbed a bit from 4Q to 1Q.
You can see noninterest expense was down quite a bit from 4Q to 1Q.
Provision.
We booked a $1 million provision this quarter to drive our pretax income results of $54 million.
You will see in discontinued operations the impact of our First Horizon insurance sale.
And down the bottom right of the page you will see our diluted share count moving up from 4Q '10 to 1Q '11 which reflects the full quarter impact of our December common equity raise.
Flip to Slide 7 I'll go through some segment highlights.
Pretax income in the Regional Bank increased 4% linked quarter.
Provision expense in the bank declined from $2 million to a provision credit of $12 million.
NII decreased 7% from lower loan balances in mortgage warehouse lending which offset modest growth in other commercial loan categories as well as the shorter day count.
Year-over-year NII was up 1% in the Regional Bank.
The increase was driven by higher loan fees fewer interest reversals and favorable pricing on new loans.
Total revenue decreased 7% linked quarter but was only down 1% from a year ago despite regulatory change impacts on NSF and overdraft fees.
Capital Markets' pretax income declined $1.5 million or 6% linked quarter.
Revenues were down 5% and lower variable compensation drove expenses down 4%.
Fixed income average daily revenue declined slightly from $1.3 million -- from $1.4 million.
Corporate segment had a loss of $8 million compared to fourth quarter's pretax income of $5 million.
First quarter included a $5.8 million gain from the redemption of $100 million of TruPS at an 8.07% rate.
Fourth quarter included a $14.8 million gain from sale of our Visa shares.
Corporate expenses increased $2 million to $21 million.
First quarter included a $3.3 million reversal of Visa contingent liability compared to $8 million in the fourth quarter.
Pretax loss in the non-Strategic segment narrowed to $24 million from $77 million linked quarter.
Loan loss provision decreased 69% linked quarter primarily from improved metrics in the Consumer portfolio.
Servicing fees were up modestly and mortgage hedging results increased to $12.5 million from $7.2 million in the fourth quarter.
Mortgage repurchase expense was also lower which I'll go into more detail about in a few slides.
As for recent regulatory commentary regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosures and the actions outlined against our sub-servicer we currently believe there is little basis for liability on our part.
And in the event we have any exposure we believe it would be limited.
Moving on to Slide 8 consolidated net interest margin was at 3.22% up 4 basis points from the prior quarter.
Core business NIM was 3.58% up 2 basis points from fourth to first.
NIM was positively impacted by continued business mix shift better loan pricing lower deposit costs and a reduction in excess balances at the Fed.
Linked-quarter total average assets decreased to $24.6 billion from lower Fed and loan balances.
Our average Fed balances declined by about $700 million quarter-to-quarter.
The non-Strategic portfolio continued its run off at about 5%.
We also had a reduction in loans to mortgage companies as I mentioned as the shorter duration loans were paid off as industry refi activities slowed considerably.
From fourth to first quarter average total commercial loans decreased 6% including a $519 million drop from those loans to mortgage companies.
Excluding these mortgage warehouse loans commercial loans actually increased 1%.
We saw loan growth in our Corporate CRE ABL and Business Banking Loan portfolios.
While the decline in higher-yield mortgage warehouse loans contributed to the decline in loan yields yields on new loan products improved particularly in CRE where they were up 18 basis points from last quarter.
As anticipated core deposits were down slightly linked quarter due to roll off of higher-cost deposits associated with our exit from the tag programs.
Weighted average cost of total deposits declined again 3 basis points to 67 basis points.
Moving on to Slide 9 consolidated expenses declined 4% from the fourth quarter and were down 7% from a year ago.
As Bryan mentioned we started to see results from productivity and efficiency efforts in the first quarter.
Compensation decreased 5% linked quarter despite seasonally higher employee-related expenses and declined 11% year-over-year.
Areas we've identified as efficiency opportunities which you can see include business process simplification streamlining IT functions and reducing our procurement expenses.
Recent examples of how we've achieved about $50 million in cost savings include closures and consolidations of 5 financial centers and FTU reduction of 5% from last quarter and numerous others initiatives across the company.
As Bryan said we are committed to improving our operating efficiency and delivering $100 million to $125 million in annual cost savings by 2012.
Moving on to Slide 10 I'll discuss mortgage repurchase trends.
You'll see that our pipeline actually decreased $5 million to $529 million.
Mortgage repurchase provision expense declined 16% to $37 million.
This was the third consecutive quarter that our repurchase expense declined.
The provision balanced against net realized losses of $37 million so that the reserves stayed flat at $183 million.
Rescission rates have actually improved from 40% to 50% to now 45% to 55% range and severity remained steady at 50% to 60%.
New requests were down 16% linked quarter and resolutions were modestly higher than new requests.
Over 90% of our repurchase makeover requests are from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
And while the majority of requests in the pipeline are still from the '06 and '07 vintages we are seeing a continued shift into the '08 vintage.
As you know we sold our mortgage platform in August of 2008.
We did not have any repurchase request or any new litigation related to our product securitizations in 1Q '11.
Based on the vintage mix and the fact that we did not originate any new GSE loans after August '08 we believe that GSE mortgage request volume should decline over the next 12 months compared to 2010's levels.
Moving on to asset quality highlights on Slide 11 as Bryan mentioned our proactive approach to credit quality enabled us to reduce provision to $1 million this quarter.
Linked quarter charge offs declined 23% to $77 million and we decreased reserve 11% to $589 million.
We saw improved credit trends from lower delinquencies in the Consumer portfolio and favorable grade migration across the Commercial Loan portfolios.
Moving to Slide 12 NPAs declined 2% linked quarter and inflows were down 21%.
Our ORE balances decreased 15%.
While we could experience quarter-to-quarter volatility we anticipate 2011 NPA levels to decline compared to last year.
And as we sit here today we believe the next several quarters' provision levels are likely to be below what we consider normalized levels of our bonefish targets.
However we are mindful that national and global economic events and subsequent changes in our portfolios could impact this outlook.
I'll wrap up on Slide 12.
First quarter marked another step towards achieving our long-term bonefish targets.
We still have plenty of work to do getting there with the right mix of revenue expense and credit levels in the profitability equation.
But our core businesses ROA was at 126 basis points in 1Q '11 compared to our long-term bonefish targets of 125 basis points to 145 basis points.
And our consolidated ROA was 71 basis points.
We're making continued progress towards higher returns by continuing to optimize our business mix improving productivity and efficiency favorably positioning our balance sheet and decreasing our credit costs.
Now I'll turn it back over to Bryan for some closing comments.
Thanks BJ.
We started 2011 on our front foot.
Thanks to the hard work of our employees I'm pleased with the progress -- our progress in executing on our strategic priorities and expect continued success as the year unfolds.
There is still challenges to work through.
But I believe our superior customer service unique product set and a market focus give us a competitive advantage both near term and longer term.
We are committed to producing consistently attractive returns for our shareholders.
Thanks.
And now we'll take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  First question is from Bob Patten of Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Stock is getting hit a little right now and obviously it's sort of like the headline view of what revenue growth is for the franchise.
Can you just talk about -- you said there was a lot of activity going on in terms of calls business development.
But clearly I think people are focusing on the top line this quarter.
How do you ramp that focus up at this point in time? This is Bryan.
First quarter is a hard quarter to get a read on revenue growth seasonality impacts day count impacts and number of the loan line items and day count impacts fee income business both in banking and in Capital market.
So there's always a little bit of volatility.
And in our quarter as with BJ and I both pointed out we had some contraction in the mortgage warehouse lending which tended to be tied more to what's going on in interest rates in the refi market.
But what we're seeing day in day out Customer business the pricing continues to remain strong.
As we pointed out we're seeing improved spreads.
We're seeing improved business mix on our balance sheet.
Our pipelines continue to look very strong.
In fact our pipeline for new loan production at the end of the first quarter was up slightly from where it was at the end of the fourth quarter.
And so we're reasonably encouraged with the opportunity for continued customer growth continued customer activity and as we both have said a slower growth environment and a low interest rate environment.
We are reasonably optimistic with the opportunity for growing the business and improving the business or balance sheet mix over the longer term.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow up.
On the capital side can you just talk to your thoughts about what the minimum levels of Tier 1 that you're going to need to keep on the balance sheet over the next couple of years because you've been pretty vocal about saying you're not a warehouser of capital.
Yes Bob.
It's still unfolding a little bit.
And capital management I think for the foreseeable future is going to be a exercise that we'll all spend a lot of time on in the industry and it's going to involve our regulators as we lay out our capital plan.
We think longer term that we ought to be able to run this company in the 8% to 9% Tier 1 common range.
And we think over time we will migrate to that level.
But as I said it's still a period of change and we're all working through the guidance that I guess we're all trying to gather information from with the latest S gap or stress testing work that was done on the larger institutions.
But we think 8% to 9% Tier 1 common over the longer term.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Bryan I want to start your quote in the press release talks about deploying capital and being fast and nimble and how you make decisions and respond to changes.
When I read that I think of MNT being given an opportunity of Wilmington and responding quickly.
Are you signaling you're more likely to go after a larger distressed deal here? I'm just trying to understand what that message is.
Yes.
It's probably less focused on M&amp;A transactions as it is something we're trying to build in into the culture.
Very simply put I would say we as a company we as an industry are facing a tremendous amount of change over the next 4 or 5 years.
Some of it from the impacts of legislation Dodd-Frank some of it from the impact of a economic growth environment that is low interest rates and low growth.
And so we're focusing our efforts on adapting to change being more flexible being more nimble and being in a position where we can implement new technologies.
And if that means integrating an M&amp;A transaction it means that -- but it doesn't -- but that's not targeted specifically to an M&amp;A transaction at all Steve.
Okay that's helpful.
And maybe just one follow up on the margin.
It looks like loan yields are down in the quarter.
Security yields are down and your cost of funds look like they flattened out.
Should we look for NIM pressure over the next couple of quarters from where we ended here in 1Q? It's BJ.
I'd say that the NIM -- we still believe that the fundamentals of the margins remain pretty strong.
We've talked a lot about business mix and what kind of spreads we're getting on new and renewed loans.
I still think we have a modest amount not a lot of room to move deposit rates down.
But you're right that's getting close to the bottom.
We're optimizing the balance sheet as you can see in terms of taking down excess balances at the Fed.
We are taking advantages when we see them to put on assets in the Securities portfolio at reasonable yields with reasonable structures.
But I would overall say that our NIM should be relatively flat to maybe modestly up over the next few quarters.
Perfect.
Thanks for all the color.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Okay thanks.
Just on the mortgage repurchase expense obviously it has been coming down.
Just want to get any status of if you've been in discussions with the GSEs about potentially settling this? Or if your thoughts have changed because the expense is coming down but you don't feel that is necessary at this point? It's BJ.
I think we've talked about before that we're willing to entertain discussions and dialogue with the GSEs.
And at the same time as you can see in our trends we're also willing to continue to do what we're doing to manage down the exposures.
So I think we're going down any and all of those paths and continue to do so.
And if there is something that -- some kind of resolution we could work out that's economic with the GSEs we'll certainly pursue that.
And if not we'll continue to hopefully see improving trends like we saw this quarter.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up when you think about M&amp;A is there any hurdles that you want to I guess reach internally before you get more aggressive with thinking about M&amp;A? I mean maybe it's just finishing off the run-off portfolio maybe it's something else.
But obviously cleaning up your book is a priority.
But is that going to stop you at least near-term from actively looking at deals? It's Bryan.
I don't particularly see it as a linear process.
But I do think that we are very focused internally on executing on a number of fronts.
As I described it in my opening comments the blocking and tackling it's about improving our customer service implementing the technology changes that we've been working on for the last year or two and getting more efficient as an organization.
So we're perfectly content to focus there.
And assuming that the right transaction at the right price doesn't come along we're perfectly content working on the execution in the business.
And we think we can do a lot in the next 12 months focused there to improve our financial performance and to -- as you said continue to wind down the non-Strategic businesses.
All right great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Tony Davis of Stifel Nicholas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I'm wondering in view of this latest regulatory directive sort of instructuring banks to consider reserve adequacy Bryan for second lien credits what are your thoughts regarding your disposition options for the non-strategic home equity book? Well I'll let Greg sort of talk about the credit elements of it.
It's been our experience in the past and I continue to keep a little bit of an eye on it that market expectations around financial performance and Home Equity portfolios is going to be significantly worse or consistent across all portfolios.
Our experience has been that our portfolio has performed better than other portfolios that we think that will continue given the credit quality inherent in that portfolio.
And so that in particular hasn't been an area where we thought it made a heck of a lot of economic sense to pursue.
This is Greg.
And just to amplify on that we -- our book is a lot different than the books that have traded in the market.
And therefore it's very difficult for the market to get a grasp because this is such a higher-quality book compared to what's traded in the markets.
So as Bryan mentioned that that's been the economics of it.
It just don't reconcile to how the book performs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Fair enough.
BJ to you the $100 million to $125 million in savings by 2012 I guess the implication is are we correct to infer that there's probably still $200 million or so in the environmental cost to be achieved savings there? And kind of what your thinking is about a timeframe for that? That's right.
That's exactly the right way to think about it.
If you look at the expenses in our non-Strategic segment primarily we expect those to go away over time.
And I would expect that they should be substantially not fully but substantially gone by 2013 and have a lot of it gone by 2012.
If you think about the biggest piece of expense that's in there that's mortgage repurchase.
So I think if you look at last year we would have had something like $270 million of expense in non-Strategic $190 million of that was mortgage repurchase.
So we expect that to come down substantially over the next couple of years.
And with that being the biggest piece that will drive those wind down costs lower.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Greg if I could ask just final one of you I guess is it reasonable that we might expect a consolidated provision credit some time in the next few quarters? Once again the reason we'd expect a consolidated provision credit.
Well I think that is -- as we look at the continuation of the healing of the book we -- I think it's going to be lower whether it's a credit or whether it's a slightly negative as this quarter it's going to be close in those ranges.
It's going to be less than we have seen in the past.
It's BJ.
I think I've said in my prepared remarks as well that we think that provision levels consolidated are likely to be below our normalized bonefish targets.
And if you go back and do the math our normalized bonefish targets are 30 to 70 basis points of annualized provision.
So if you take that and multiply it by our loan balances that's kind of how we're thinking about it.
With the caveat again that global -- Middle East oil other economic impacts regulatory changes et cetera could change that outlook.
But as we sit here today that's how we see it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> I want to talk a little bit about the bonefish actually and exactly what you were just talking about.
If you look down the 1Q '11 column on the core what I was looking at is we're hitting most everything that we have.
And actually this quarter we had I think about a $12 million recapture in the core number relative to the 30 to 70 basis points of charge-offs.
And the only thing left really to kind of show improvement on is the efficiency ratio.
So my key question was forgetting about the non-strategic parts of the business and just focusing on efficiency ratio and cap markets on the Regional Bank how fast can we migrate from 79 down to less than 65? It's BJ.
As Bryan and I both talked about this is something that we're absolutely focused on just as hard executing as we did on improving our capital position and getting out in front of credit.
Our folks across the company literally in every part of our company are doing a fantastic job on this.
I talked about that $50 million of our targeted $100 million to $125 million is already in our run rate.
We are moving towards getting that $100 million to $125 million executed and in our run rate by the end of this year so that we have a clear glide path into 2012.
As I just mentioned when I was answering Tony's question the wind down will take a little bit longer should make meaningful progress in 2012 but take a little bit longer such that we're really targeting to achieve bonefish efficiency ratios in 2013.
LLC</strong> The other part of the equation I think that just doesn't get defined is the balance sheet size.
Right now if you just look at the core amount we're talking about $17 billion in core assets.
So I think yes the balance sheet size and share count are the other 2 things that Bryan you might be able to give us a little bit of feel for given that the earnings assets on the bank this quarter did come back in about $500 000.
The balance sheet it's been in this plus or minus $25 billion range for a while.
We think that's going to be reasonably stable.
It's going to ebb and flow just a little here and there.
As you correctly point out the core bank balance sheet is somewhat smaller when you extract the impact these National Strategic portfolios.
But I think it's important to note that those aren't going to 0 over a very short period of time.
There's components of it that are going to be larger longer amortization.
The Home Equity portfolio is a portion that's running off most rapidly.
It's probably running off today in the 15% to 20% CPR range.
And so the opportunity for us is as the economy picks up we'll continue to offset that contraction with growth in the core banking and other opportunities.
So as we look at it we think the balance sheet will remain reasonably stable.
Capital and share count is a different question.
That really goes back to my earlier comments which are -- we're going to look at how we smartly manage that capital.
It will involve our capital planning process.
It's going to involve stress testing the balance sheet and it's going to involve communicating with our regulators and it's going to take some time.
But we're mindful of that.
And to the earlier question I don't think we need to warehouse the capital.
We'll manage it at the appropriate times in the appropriate ways and we'll be as proactive as we can in doing that.
LLC</strong> The only other thing I was going to say is if you think about the non-Strategic as a part of the balance sheet size still we need to think about that as that some point turning profitable and I'm kind of just kind of wiping it away and saying we're just going to focus on the core and that's the -- at some point 3 5 years down the road that's not around.
But as long as that balance sheet is there to cover the expenses and we're losing money I'm just kind of trying to say it let's say that's 0 and just focus on that core part of the organization or do you think in the short run we can actually flip positive and thanks for all your time.
Thanks.
Marty look I think we lost $24 million pretax in the non-Strategic segment.
This quarter we had $37 million of mortage repurchase cost in there.
So when we work through that problem that segment goes back to pretax profitability.
So it won't always be as much drag as it's been and that's diminishing.
And as we work through the mortgage repurchase and as we get out of some of the cost of foreclosures and credit challenges that profitability will improve.
It's lower profitability.
If you look at the net interest margin slide that BJ walked you through the net interest margin on it is lower than what we have on the bank and what we're putting on the bank but it can be profitable over time And one more thing Marty I might add to Bryan's point on your question about assets as really -- you've heard us talk several times now in the last several months about optimizing the business mix.
That's exactly what we're trying to do.
The reality is our asset size will probably bump around at this level for the next several quarters.
But it's critical for us to replace things that are running off in the non-Strategic segment at 220 basis points in margin and replace it with 358 basis points in margin and then consolidate in the core businesses.
So that's what we're trying to do improve the profitably of the balance sheet even if it is the same size.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Just getting back to the comments made around some of the seasonalities on the quarter particularly around fee income.
Can you talk about the seasonal impact at the -- or in other words I guess the pick up that you could see on next quarter in for example service charges and also we know there is a degree of seasonality in the Fixed Income business just given where it creates an activity.
So I just want to get an idea of what we could be looking at coming out of this quarter and some of these fee lines that got hit pretty hard in 1Q.
Yes I think -- it's BJ.
In the Regional Bank fee income in terms of lower day count as well as some of the continuing impacts we're seeing from regulatory changes was probably $3 million to $5 million in this quarter with probably more than half of that being seasonality.
So you could probably see some of that come back in the subsequent quarters.
Fixed income is a business where again we are trading in Distribution business.
So we match up buyers and sellers.
With the market environment that we're in it's been a little bit slower than certainly what we saw a year ago.
With that said we're very pleased with what we're seeing out of our folks in fixed income.
As a matter of fact if you break it down a little we talked about average daily revenues down from 1.4 to 1.3.
They were actually down from 1.39 to 1.34.
So they were virtually flat on the quarter.
So we expect that to continue meaning stay at these relative levels at least for the next quarter or two.
The Fixed Income business is one where there's a lot of money that still we expect to see invested in the fixed income markets when you have the kind of volatility we saw in the first quarter on days where the market is back and up and rates are up.
You see more activity on dates when the rates are falling.
And we expect that rates get to sort of a higher level.
We expect we'll see some of that market that might come back into the market and we think we're extraordinarily well positioned to pick up in that.
Okay.
All right.
And then separately on the loan demand side can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of opportunities to grow C&amp;I and we where your line utilization may stand currently? It's BJ.
Yes.
So loan demand we talked about several areas being promising where we saw modest growth.
We saw some in our Corporate segment which we define as companies over $100 million in annual revenues.
So we continue to see good solid pricing there.
So we continue to see growth there.
Asset-based Lending business banking which is roughly $10 million in annual revenue companies and a little bit in core C&amp;I and CRE.
So really across a lot of our different Commercial portfolios we're cautiously optimistic that we're starting to see a little bit of demand.
In terms of -- would you give me your second question again? Utilization.
Utilization.
We really haven't seen a lot of movement on it.
It's still in the mid-30s.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Miller of FBR.
This is Jessica in for Paul.
We just had a question about the mortgage banking revenue.
Was that due to the hedging gain or can you walk me through that? Primarily from the mortgage hedging gain we're up about from about $7 million in the fourth quarter to $12.5 million in the first quarter.
And servicing fees picked up just very modestly about $2 million.
And how do you -- just with the oncoming legislation how can we think about servicing fees going forward? It still remains to be seen.
But depending on where that goes they certainly could be challenged.
In terms of our MSR asset the valuation is predominantly related to delinquencies and we have seen improvement in delinquencies over the last several months as well as prepayments and prepayments fees have slowed quite considerably this quarter.
So we're obviously actively monitoring what the events that are going on external to us and making appropriate adjustments.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC</strong> Thanks.
Just wanted to ask one more question about this non-strategic versus strategic top line income.
Do you think that this type of the thing that below watermark is it fair to say that and then what changes in pipeline that you articulated that this probably should increase in linked quarter the next quarter or 2? I'm sorry Chris I couldn't quite hear you.
Sorry about that.
LLC</strong> If we look at the core net interest income is this first quarter most likely going to be at the low watermark compared to the rest of this year? In terms of net interest income? LLC</strong> Correct.
Yes in all likelihood yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a general question Bryan can you show us I guess the various parts of the franchise whether it's middle Tennessee Memphis or Eastern Tennessee in terms of how they're acting for loan growth as well as it's stable in asset quality? Yes.
I'll let Greg pickup the asset quality piece for any distinctions.
There doesn't seem to be as much distinction geographically around loan demand as it does to be line of business.
We're still seeing strength in all areas that stayed in our corporate borrowing.
And as BJ pointed out we're seeing some pick up in terms of our Commercial Real Estate businesses.
If you look at our pipeline growth from December year end to March first quarter end the strongest area of growth was in Commercial Real Estate.
Geographically -- and then the area we're seeing probably the least growth right now tends to be on consumer demand.
But it tends to be more a line of business than it does geographic.
We see the recovery taking hold across the entire state.
Yes.
I'd say from a credit quality standpoint overall in the -- because of the economic environment in Eastern Tennesse that the metrics there look pretty good.
And across the state they're improving the mid-South market or the Memphis market in business banking is a bit slower than some of the others in terms of healing.
But to Bryan's point then across the segments that we have business banking would be the slowest to heal and we're seeing healing across all the other segments.
But the improvement in business banking is apparent.
It's just at a slower rate.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kevin Reynolds of Wunderlich Securities.
Bryan quick question if you could -- sorry I think I  ask you this every quarter but how do you feel today versus last quarter.? And then specifically --  I mean you're talking it sounds more optimistically modestly so about the environment but what about the competitive environment? Are other of your more traditional competitors starting to become more active as well and kind of see -- are they seeing the same things or is the near-term story going to be one of -- more of a market share gains than net loan growth and increased business activity out there? Yes.
Thank you.
I am more optimistic.
I'm more optimistic that the economy is picking up traction.
It's gaining some momentum.
There is still risk to it but it seems to be recovering slowly and we're getting more confident about that.
I'm more optimistic about our positioning.
I feel good about the traction I see on the initiatives that we've talked about around technology and efficiency as well as our customer acquisition efforts.
We've I think made good progress there and we continue to do very well in terms of bringing -- hiring and bringing additional relationship managers into the organization.
And all that said the competitive environment is still very competitive.
There is a lot of competition for customer transactions that come up.
We don't expect that to abate simply because the economic recovery is at a lower growth rate.
But we expect there to be a fair amount of competition particularly on the C&amp;I side.
As I said in my earlier comments we're trying to build long-term relationships with customers.
We're trying to grow our market share.
We're being mindful of the pricing and structure implications of what's going on in the competitive environment.
But on the whole I'm much more optimistic.
It's BJ as well.
I just might add on the competitive environment particularly as it relates to loans we are seeing a bit more aggressiveness on structure than we probably would have seen 90 days ago particularly from some of the larger competitors.
As Bryan said in our prepared comments and what we are emphasizing with our bankers we are very focused on the right price and the right structure.
And we believe that some of the competitive advantages we have in terms of what Bryan talked about customer service the talents of our bankers our abilities and capabilities we'd rather compete on that then start to get the structures.
So that's what we're going to continue to do.
Okay.
And then one other question and I'll just ask you this as straightforwardly as I can.
I don't want to get the cart before the horse too much but any thoughts on the dividend on raising the dividend? And I mean if we're in as slow-growth environment and your risk with capital if the M&amp;A environment doesn't come your way could we see that move higher or more quickly? This is Bryan.
I don't know how to define more quickly.
That's a term of art so I'm going to try to avoid that.
I think we in the industry probably learned a lot from what the Federal reserve and the stress testing work in the dividend activity that occurred with the larger institutions.
We recognize that it's a process where we need to have interaction with our regulators and work with them.
But our capital has stayed strong.
Our capital ratios remained strong this quarter and we actually redeemed the CPP warrant this quarter.
So we're taking all that into context.
We will work on it.
We'll lay out our capital plans and we'll evaluate the right way to manage dividend policy and capital repatriation with what's going on in the business what's going on in terms of organic opportunities what's going on in credit quality and what we see as a need for capital in the business.
Thank you.
And our final question is from Matt Hodgson of SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.</strong> Bryan on M&amp;A I just wanted to see if you could clarify for us again.
As you look at kind of current potential M&amp;A opportunities the companies' interest in distressed transactions versus healthy end market versus deals that might extend the footprint a state or two out? Mac I think it still -- the first or second inning in terms of the M&amp;A environment.
I think that there is going to be plenty of time to deal with that.
So our first and foremost interest is to be disciplined and to only focus on what we can do at the right price and in the right way that makes us a better franchise for the long term.
In terms of priorities there is probably as equal balance between the ability to sort of fill in where appropriate here in Tennessee with the opportunity to open up contiguous markets that would be additive to our business model where we can operate our business model in a similar fashion to what we do here in Tennessee where we can build strong market shares.
We can provide a differentiated product and service model that allows us to be differentiated and put capital to work in attractive ways for our shareholders.
And back to where I started given that it's the early stages we're willing to be patient and couple of the -- what we have going on in the organization in terms of key initiatives that we think are important like getting the cost savings identified and executed in 2012 that BJ and I have talked about of $100 million to $125 million and getting our systems upgrades completed.
We feel like we need to be patient we will be patient and we'll only do the right thing at the right time.
Inc.</strong> And is there -- given the headquarters in Memphis is there more of a preference to go West or Southwest of Tennessee?  Is that a market as opposed to East? No.
We don't have biases in that regard no.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to Bryan.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining our call this morning.
We appreciate your questions and your interest.
I hope everyone has a great day and a great holiday weekend.
Please let us know if you have any follow-up questions.
Please contact any of us or Aarti if you have any follow ups.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce our host for today Ms.
Aarti Bowman of Investor Relations.
Ma'am please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking statements and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcements materials and in our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and it is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Greg Jardine will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
With that I'll turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning and thank you for joining the call.
During the second quarter we continue to successfully execute on our strategic priorities.
We made headway in optimizing our business mix for profitability and returns as the regional bank's pretax income increased 13% linked quarter and the non-strategic segments drag decreased.
We improved productivity and efficiency with overall expenses down 2% linked quarter and 8% year-over-year.
Net income rose 6% to $43 million.
We are controlling what we can control in our company and making progress on our strategic priorities.
Our bankers are focusing on profitably increasing market share with superior customer service.
We have made more than 14 000 customer calls year-to-date resulting in 3% period-end loan growth in the regional banking.
In our C&amp;I portfolio growth was encouraging as period-end loans were up 5%.
The increase was driven by loans to mortgage companies and our corporate borrowers.
Commercial loans excluding loans to mortgage companies were up 1%.
We are positioning our balance sheet for higher returns by replacing low yielding non-strategic loans with better-priced more profitable relationship-oriented loans.
Our success in expanding and deepening customer relationships benefited revenues in the bank as net interest income was up 1% and fees increased 2% from last quarter.
Capital markets continues to be a strong contributor to our overall fee income.
Capital markets' average daily revenue was $1.1 million down from last quarter's $1.3 million but within our normalized range of expected revenues.
We made additional progress towards achieving our productivity and efficiency targets having identified $110 million in annual cost savings.
This $110 million of annualized savings is in our expense based run rate and we have identified for execution another $60 million to be mostly completed by the end of 2011.
BJ will provide more detail in a few minutes but we took actions to streamline our company as we reorganized our structure simplified our lines of business and made investments in technology.
These actions should result in our becoming more flexible and nimble to serve our customers better.
Our strategic expenses declined 15% linked quarter due to a 34% reduction in mortgage repurchase provision expense.
Our goal is to achieve a full year 2013 consolidated expense base that is 20% to 25% less than full year 2010 consolidated expenses of $1.3 billion.
Achieving our goal should enable us to reach a 60% to 65% efficiency ratio sometime in 2013.
Our efficiency goal also assumes ongoing investments in people products and technology.
From 2009 to the end of this year we will invest in more than $100 million in system upgrades and technology.
Credit quality trends also improved as nonperformers and net charge-offs declined.
Provision expense was unchanged at $1 million in the second quarter.
We're seeing continued stabilization in our commercial loan portfolio.
Additionally enhanced collection efforts have helped lower delinquencies in our consumer portfolio.
All in all I'm pleased with the progress we've made in successfully executing on our strategic priorities.
BJ will now take you through the second quarter's financial results and I'll be back with some closing comments before we take your questions.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 6.
Second quarter's net income available to common was $43 million an increase of 6% from last quarter.
Diluted EPS is $0.16 compared to $0.15 in the first quarter and $0.01 a year ago.
Significant items totaled $16.6 million and were related to our restructuring repositioning and efficiency initiatives.
Major items include $7.5 million of expense from employee severance costs in that number and a $9 million charge to terminate a technology services contract which will create efficiencies going forward.
In the second quarter we completed the sale of First Horizon Insurance and we recognized a $4.2 million after-tax gain which you can see in discontinued operations.
Revenues were down primarily due to lower fixed income in capital markets offsetting bank NII and fee increases as well as higher mortgage hedging results.
Expenses were down despite $16 million restructuring-related charges.
Due to a combination of our efficiency efforts mortgage repurchase expense declines and lower variable compensation in capital markets.
Turning to Slide 7 look at some segment highlights.
In the regional bank pretax income was $73 million up 13% linked quarter.
Revenues in the bank increased 2%.
Expenses were down 3% and we booked a provision credit in the bank of $13.7 million compared to $12.4 million last quarter.
Capital markets' pretax income declined to $17 million from $22 million linked quarter as revenues decreased 13%.
Lower variable comp gross expenses down 9%.
Fixed income average daily revenues declined to $1.1 million from $1.3 million as market conditions continue to result in cautious buying activity.
In our corporate segment we had a pretax loss of $27 million compared to loss of $8 million in the first quarter.
Second quarter in the Corporate segment is where we include the $16.6 million of restructuring repositioning and efficiency charges as well as a $3.4 million interest related to tax refund which is booked in other income.
Remember that the first quarter included $3.1 million of restructuring charges a $5.8 million gain from the redemption of our TRUPs and a $3.3 million reversal of our Visa contingent liability.
In the non-strategic segment the pretax loss narrowed to $11 million in the second quarter.
Net hedging results were $15.4 million this quarter compared to $12.5 million in the first.
Non-strategic expenses decreased as mortgage repurchase provision expense declined and I'll go into that a little more detail in a few slides.
A note on Durban.
We expect that the impact from the final decision should be about a $15 million to $20 million annual hit to our revenue.
However we believe that the impact should substantially be mitigated by the implementation of new sources of revenue.
So for example we're charging noncustomers to use our delivery systems or increasing existing transactional and product fees or reducing fee waivers and we're modifying our checking product suite.
Turning to NIM and balance sheet on Slide 8.
The consolidated NIM was relatively stable at 3.20% compared to 3.22% in the first and our core business NIM was 3.57%.
And we expect the NIM to remain relatively stable for the remainder of the year.
Linked quarter total assets remained stable as well at approximately $25 billion.
The regional banks' period-end loans as Bryan talked about were up 3% and the non-strategic loans declined 5% resulting in modest net growth in total loans.
New commercial loan spreads were at 365 basis points up 19 basis points from last year and were flat linked quarter.
As we've emphasized we are replacing lower-quality lower-yield loans with higher-quality higher-spread loans across the bank.
In fact the net growth we saw on the bank versus the runoff in non-strategic should generate 2x the NII annually.
On Slide 9 let's talk a little bit about the successful execution showing up in our loan pipeline trends.
Bryan talked about our bankers' successful calling efforts and that execution is reflected in the year-over-year growth of our commercial loan pipeline and our close-end funded commercial loans.
We are seeing demand in the C&amp;I space especially from our corporate borrowers and asset-based lending borrowers.
We've also seen some opportunity in new CRE customers.
In our regional bank commercial-funded loans have increased by 67% since last year at higher spreads.
Overall pricing spreads are favorable but we do expect continued pricing pressure in the market.
Moving on to productivity and efficiency on Slide 10.
The linked quarter consolidated expenses declined 2% to $309 million.
As I mentioned earlier that includes that $16.6 million restructuring.
Recent efficiency actions including streamlining the regional bank structure reducing cost and procurement reducing cost and technology as well as numerous other back-office functions.
As Bryan talked about we've now identified $110 million in annual cost saves with an annualized $50 million executed already and in our 2Q '11 run rate.
The remaining $60 million is expected to be largely executed by the end of '11 and we will continue to execute on getting our cost down to achieve our targeted efficiency ratio.
Turning to Slide 11 talk a little bit about mortgage repurchase.
Linked quarter our pipeline declined 15% to $451 million and our repurchase provision expense declined 34% to $24.6 million marking the fourth consecutive quarter decline.
Net realized losses were relatively flat at $38.5 million and we decreased reserves by $14 million from last quarter.
Rescission rates improved but are still within our range of 45% to 55% and severity remains steady at 50% to 60%.
Linked quarter you see that new requests were down 18% and resolutions were up 10%.
Based on the vintage mix and the fact that we did not originate any new GSE loans after August '08 we believe that GSE mortgage repurchase request volume should continue to decline.
And again we do not have any private securitization repurchase request to date.
Turning to Slide 12.
Let me take a few minutes to discuss private securitizations as they've recently become a hot topic again in light of Bank of America's announced settlement.
Though comparisons to their settlement have been made regarding our securitizations we believe there is significant differences that make those comparisons less relevant.
Our view of our potential risk here has remained consistent over time.
Looking at the bottom of the slide there are a few data points which may help you analyze this.
We achieved about $33 billion of private securitizations between '04 and '07 of which 40% was jumbo and 60% or so was Alt-A and we did not have any subprime securitizations.
As I've said before we have had no repurchase request from these securitizations to date and have 3 previously disclosed lawsuits one of which has been withdrawn.
Our securitizations have generally performed favorably overall to industry cohort benchmarks.
Our reps and warranties on private securitizations are generally more limited than for GSEs.
And so as we sit here of course we kindle everything particularly since we've had no private securitization requests.
But sitting here today considering the differences between the private securitization the $33 billion originated between '04 and '07 and the $70 billion of GSE volume originated between '05 and '08 the more limited nature of the reps and warranties and the procedural differences of initiating repurchased range versus GSEs the disclosures in the securitization prospectuses the relative performance versus industry cohorts of our securitizations and the mix of our securitizations versus the industry we believe it's unlikely that our private securitization risk is greater than our repurchase experience with GSEs which have been manageable as an earnings headwind.
You can see on Slide 13 our asset quality trends continue to improve.
Loan loss provision was flat at $1 million.
Linked quarter net charge-offs declined 14% to $66 million and we decreased reserve 11% to $524 million.
The reserve-to-loan ratio remained strong at 3.26% at the end of the second quarter.
Moving on to Slide 14.
Nonperforming assets declined 9% linked quarter.
Commercial and closed decreased by 35% and resolutions were up 40%.
Lower inflows were driven by continued credit stabilization in our commercial portfolios.
Wrapping up on Slide 15.
We're continuing to make progress towards reaching our long-term bonefish goals.
Our core business are away within an annualized 1.06% in the quarter and our core NIM was at 3.57%.
We're taking steps towards achieving higher returns by controlling what we can control continuing to better position our balance sheet by replacing lower-yielding non-strategic loans with higher-spread loans in the bank.
We're improving productivity and efficiency and we're decreasing our credit environmental cost.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Bryan.
Thanks BJ.
I'm proud of the progress made by the First Horizon team.
We have a strong core banking and capital markets businesses.
We have strengthened these businesses by our team's efforts to win new clients and grow organically by our continued investments in systems and processes to help us provide unparalleled customer service and by our steps to make us a significantly more efficient company.
We have a strong capital base and we have made solid progress on credit quality and our pipeline of mortgage repurchase requests.
Our bonefish tool is widely used in organization and serves as a constant reminder that we are managing the company for profitability and strong returns to our shareholders.
Our top priority for the remainder of this year and next year is to continue to focus on improving profitability and the long-term earnings power of the core franchise.
We are working on our blocking and tackling daily actively calling on new and existing retail and commercial customers improving spreads managing our fee revenue and reducing our cost of doing business.
Our strong capital levels give us a significant level of flexibility.
We are committed to investing that capital in a disciplined manner.
Our principal goal is to increase value to our shareholders as we prudently evaluate our options invest in organic growth potential mergers and acquisitions and/or increase dividend and stock buybacks based on which option best meets our goal.
We believe that excess capital should be returned to our shareholders when it cannot be attractively invested in organic growth or well-priced deals.
Expanding our business by investing capital in well-priced value-creating mergers and acquisitions is still a priority but it does not take precedent over our goal to increase value for our shareholders.
We look forward to executing on our strategic priorities and remain committed to producing consistently attractive returns for shareholders.
Thank you and now we'll take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos from JPMorgan.
Bryan just a follow-up first on your comments on capital.
It doesn't look like you bought back any stock again this quarter.
Now that earnings are up significantly what's the holdup in buying back stock? And do you expect to get more active here over the next few quarters? Yes Steve.
We did not buy back other than just a few shares associated with benefit plan.
We have as I said a strong capital base.
And as you probably glean from what the largest institutions went through with the capital stress testing and dividend processes there is regulatory involvement in that.
And so our plan is to work with our regulators at the appropriate time work through stress testing the adequacy of our capital and develop a plan in conjunction with our regulators and execute it accordingly.
Okay.
Got you.
Maybe just one other one on capital.
With the economy seeming to slow a bit Bryan can you talk about how this might be impacting seller expectations? And do you find current expectations on a more reasonable side compared to comments from the last quarter? I don't know that I have any fresh data Steve that would indicate one way or the other.
I think our point of view has been that the building pressure with the slower growth rate in the economy coupled with increased cost of operation and regulation and pressure on these and spreads would contribute to that but I don't know that there's been a significant shift in seller expectations during the last 90 days.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
First just maybe on the mortgage putbacks and repurchase trends and please reference Slide 11 or the other ones if it helps.
But in your view should we see the decline in reserves this quarter really as a signal that both reserve levels have likely already peaked and should probably trend downward and maybe we're probably pretty close to a peak in net charge-offs? Craig it's BJ.
What we saw and you can see it in some of the major drivers here is positive trends across-the-board so I talked about fourth consecutive decline in the provision.
If you look at again on Slide 11 new requests down 18% linked quarter 28% since the peak in the quarter as well as our folks are doing a great job resolving these and reducing the pipeline.
So again as we've seen for quite some time that we believe the momentum is certainly shifting more towards the end of this than the beginning and I would expect that we would continue to see positive trends here over the next several quarters.
And what should we roughly assume about prospects for a settlement on the GSE or private label side? Previously you've talked that there was a prospect in the GSI has that prospect actually dimmed now that you recognized more loss in the last few quarters? Yes I think we've always -- it's BJ again.
We've always looked at it as an option and we're going to do what we think is the most economically attractive for the company and shareholders.
And so it if that means continuing to work through it like we're doing now we'll do that.
And if something else comes up that works we'll look at that as well.
But again going back to controlling what we can control we can't control what happens working on things like a settlement but we can control how we improve resolutions and work through our pipeline.
And I think our folks are doing a fantastic job doing that.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
And just to follow up on that last question.
On the particular lawsuits you said you've said you have 3 lawsuits out there on your private label and one has been dismissed.
Is the reserve for those lawsuits in on Page 11 that $169 million? Or is that a different litigation reserve? No.
Those 3 lawsuits if they were estimable and probable would be in our litigation reserves.
So you can refer to our Q on that.
But as I said one of them was just recently withdrawn.
So now we have 2 outstanding.
Paul this is Bryan.
All those suits were very early stages in the very early stages.
They've been out there for I guess 6 to 9 months.
And as BJ said we've been informed that one of them is being dismissed or in the process of being dismissed.
Has your outlook changed on those suits relative to the Bank of America settlement with the -- with their private label guys? No.
Paul it's Bryan again.
No.
As we've said on this call even we don't have any request on these private label securities.
And as BJ said our performance has been good vis--vis cohorts and industry performance and we think the structure of those deals is solid.
The quality and the performances has been better than the industry.
So our outlook really hasn't changed.
It's been consistent over time.
We think -- BJ sort of walked through the way to think about it but we think that it's something that we'll work through over time but is likely to be manageable as an earnings headwind.
Okay.
And to change direction a little bit on the capital markets side.
We -- I mean listen we all know that on the trading side it was very tough this quarter on a macro sense across all companies.
But can you just address I mean this is one of the lowest revenues that you have of that capital markets in a couple of years.
Can we expect that to bounce back? Or this was just a bad quarter? Or this is a trend rate now in that segment? The interest rate environment has been very volatile yields on the fixed income business tightened a lot.
But if you looked into our quarter you saw early in the quarter average daily revenues were lower.
They've built over the quarter.
They were stronger in the June time frame.
So we think there is likely to be some volatility around revenues over the next several quarters.
But we do expect to see the significant amount of cash that's got to be invested over time and we think that we're well positioned to help in that and we think there's great opportunity for our capital markets business in that effort.
I'd also add Paul that we've talked about a normalized range of $1 million to $1.5 million.
We're $1.1 million this quarter.
I would expect that we would certainly be able to stay within that range over the next several quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Can you talk a little bit about on a putback side or the home mortgage issue the FHA investigation to representations in mortgage originations and if you can just discuss your potential exposure on that front.
You mean the FHFA? Yes.
Okay.
So -- I don't know if there's anything particularly new.
You're talking about the subpoenas that were sent out to multiple institutions? Is that what you're talking about John? Yes.
And then also I know the FHA loans have been getting a lot of scrutiny more recently about banks that have been big in originating those loans.
And I wanted to see what your general view would be in terms of exposure on that front from the underwriting perspective? I got you John.
I apologize for misunderstanding the question.
On the FHA side there's not really much materially new with us.
We're certainly monitoring the situation but there's not anything that's been material that's come up here recently.
Okay.
And then also on the putback side you identify that private label risk from your perspective given all the trends and the differences between the Bank of America portfolio that it should not exceed that of the GSE losses you've incurred? Is that how you put that? I think the way John we think about it and again we try to lay out our view again considering that we haven't had any repurchase requests to date.
So we don't have any basis tangible basis necessary for it but we do certainly have views.
And so as we look at all of the things that I mentioned we believe that it's unlikely that we would see -- that we would have risks that was more than what we have experienced or will experience with the GSEs.
It's just our current view.
Okay.
All right.
And then lastly actually a question on credit.
The new SEC TDR guidelines to be implemented in the third quarter or required to be implemented in the third quarter first have you implemented that or you've been an early adopter at all? And then second of all do you expect an increase in TDRs as a result of it? I know your TDRs did jump about 28% this quarter.
John this is Greg Jardine.
We -- actually we've met with regulators as well as our accounting firm when that came out to make certain that as we were practicing our TDR processes now that there would not what the impact would be if there was a gap.
The good news is based upon that meeting that we believe that we are substantially in the right space in terms of how we approach TDRs at our institution.
So I would not expect a large change or difference based upon that meeting.
And our next question comes from the line of Bob Patten from Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> I guess it really comes down to what the market is going to try to figure you guys out in terms of normalized earnings and so I'm looking at the size of the balance sheet.
Can you give some commentary on where you guys think you are in terms of accelerating momentum on one the culture of the company changing from a credit side to a revenue-producing side? It's been kind of a long haul.
The second thing is warehouse was up a little this second quarter.
What you're C&amp;I opportunities and CRE and so forth? And what's the general quarter like this quarter and your expectations going forward.
Bob this is Bryan.
I'll start and then BJ and Greg can chime in as they like.
We -- I mentioned the bonefish tool and you talked about the culture.
We spent a lot of time and energy in the organization and people as I said in the prepared remarks really do focus on the bonefish tool.
It's a way we measure performance in the organization and it's driven by driving profitability.
And I think we've made great progress in that regard.
I'm really encouraged by the usage that it's getting.
The business is one that is going to be scalable over time.
We thought we sort of hung around this $25 billion asset number.
We're working to control our costs and we're going to be driven by how the bonefish drives our results.
So we're going to look to book profitable loans.
If we have fewer profitable loans that we can book we'll control our costs and we'll fit into that right side but we're going to scale the business to drive profitability.
The pipelines have been strong.
The second quarter was strong particularly with our corporate borrowers.
We saw good volume there.
We saw our pipelines build significantly over the last several quarters and they continued strong end of the third quarter.
So we feel like we've got very strong momentum and encouraged by the call-in efforts that we see going on in the business and the results of this call-in efforts it is still a competitive environment.
There is a lot of pressure still on pricing and structure more so at this point in the credit cycle than we would have expected.
But we do think that we're doing a good job competing in that environment.
We're winning high-quality business.
We're doing a good job in my view serving our customer base.
And so I feel good about the momentum that we have in the businesses we sort of transitioned here into the third quarter.
Bob I might add too.
I mean if you go back to Slide 9 that one to me is particularly impressive.
It's really talking about all the effort that all of our bankers are doing across our franchise to really serve customers and get out on our front foot.
I mean if you look at how much of our pipelines are doing year-over-year how much the fundings have increased year-over-year we're getting better spreads.
We're getting better quality loans.
We're making a bunch of calls.
This is all against the backdrop of doing some very difficult things from a change perspective across the bank whether its process improvement changes whether it's efficiency and cost reductions.
Our folks are facing all of that every day still having to talk to customers and starting to deliver results like this.
I'm very encouraged by what we're seeing in terms of the culture.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
and the just one last thought.
In terms of the temperature today piggybacking on Steve's question initially originally when we talked about capital deployment we talked about and maybe keeping a Tier 1 of 9% and that we've kind of came down to around 8%.
What's your gut today? And are you optimistic that something in terms of dividend and capital deployment will happen in 2011? Bob this is Bryan.
There is still a lot revolving around what is adequate capital levels for the industry but we still believe in an organization like ours is probably in the 8% to 9% Tier 1 common ratios.
We're -- the answer to Steve I sort of indicated the process in terms of the capital repatriation that you work with your regulators I don't how long that will take but that's something that we intend to work on and we'll continue to work through that process.
And whether we make 2000 -- progress in 2011 or not we're going to work on it and see if we can get that done.
Our next question comes from the line of John Arfstrom from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> A couple of I guess more model questions.
But BJ do you expect any restructuring and repositioning-type charges for Q3? I think you will continue to see some restructuring and repositioning charges from us because as I talked about we have more efficiencies to go in the second half of the year.
We talked about $60 million that are identified for execution.
But with that said I don't see the level of restructuring charges being nearly as high as what we saw this quarter.
We had $9 million termination of a technology contract in addition to some other things that I don't see repeating going forward.
LLC</strong> But that's $7.5 million number obviously seem a bit high? Yes that one was pretty high this quarter.
I would not see it higher than that going forward.
Yes I think first quarter -- Jon this is Bryan.
I think first quarter it was in the $2.5 million $3 million range so more in that range.
LLC</strong> And then maybe a question for Greg there was a big decline in the non-strategic income CRE and I wondering if you could touch a bit on what happened there? Sure.
There was a couple of things.
One there was a large loan that was taken out and that was a substantial piece of it as well as just refinancing that happened and a couple of smaller loan sales.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up on that.
I don't know which one of you will take this but you talked a little bit about income CRE in your appetite maybe getting a little bit better for that business.
It seems to be the one category in the core bank that's not growing yet.
But give us an idea of what you're seeing and what's possible for that business for you.
Sure Jon.
This is Greg again.
Within income CRE if you think about the vintages of '05 to '07 where there was some kind of a peak and so as we've been working through those that has turned better than I would have expected as the CRE market is more stable than I expected in early fourth quarter.
So what we see within the book is a continuing kind of improvement within credit grade categories.
As it relates to opportunities we have we were probably an early adapter because we were not heavy in income CRE compared to some of our competitors.
What we see now -- so we also have seen in the second quarter and really at the end of first quarter is some permanent market activity as well.
So where you are taken out of loans and as we're putting new loans on there's kind of a trade going there.
So we're seeing good activity and I think the good thing Jon is it's good to see some permanent activity.
So you actually see a role of the book which is a positive thing as opposed to a stagnant book.
So like this is moving in the right direction I think there is an increasing competition in CRE from what we saw in the fourth quarter and the beginning of -- into the first quarter.
So that competition is increasing there but it's -- we're still in a good place.
Momentum is doing good there.
Pipeline has been strong.
We're booking more loans this year than we were booking last year and we have an opportunity to look at a lot of very good deals so we're encouraged by it.
And our next question comes from the line of Bryan Foran from Nomura.
I guess looking at the mortgage warehouse balances being up $200 million linked quarter how should we think about the size of that book? It's accounted for a lot of the strength in 1Q accounted for a good chunk of the growth in Q2.
So as we think about modeling that out should we just link it up to overall market application volumes or to your geographic expansion? I guess how should we think about the size of that book going forward? Brian this is Bryan Jordan.
I think that's a good way to think about it.
It's going to be sensitive to rights and mortgage applications and it's going to be based on the warehouse customers that we support how much activity they're seeing and those are probably as good a proxy as any.
And Brian you mean loans to mortgage companies not mortgage warehouse loans? The one that's in the appendix.
I think it's Slide 22.
That's right.
Yes that's right.
Mortgage companies.
And then it was up this quarter.
Just -- I guess I was surprised it was up this quarter.
Was I thinking of the wrong kind of variable that drives it? I mean I think you saw a significant drop which we talked about in the first quarter.
This was just a little bit more of a normalization.
So it's still going to be -- it's still going to bounce around but the big drop from fourth to first was certainly a big drop.
This was just a bit more growth in the second.
The big 2 variables that are hard to get proxies for and to model would be delivery of loans out of the warehouse to buyers and then the closing of loans.
So the 2 best market proxies are going to be rights and application volumes.
And it's hard to put -- to model some of the other variables.
And then on the GSE putbacks I mean is there anything obvious to you why BofA and JPMorgan would be seeing acceleration in their GSE problems and you'd be seeing I guess declines and I guess maybe specifically does it feel like maybe the GSEs are working through the file sequentially.
And so if they're on 2008 now and you only have half the vintage then from here you would have half the problem? Yes Brian I think certainly that last part progress is right that we have a truncated year in '08.
I think it goes back to how we like to conduct ourselves as a company and being proactive in trying to tackle issues.
And one of the things that we've done I don't know if others -- all the others do it is that in our pipelines we put mortgage insurance rescissions in the pipeline even though they aren't necessarily actual requests yet from the GSEs.
So it's almost like we have a pre-pipeline pipeline.
So that when that comes we've already prepared for it and reserved for it and so I'm not sure if others are doing it that way or not but we certainly feel comfortable about where we are and continue to see improving trends.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fitzsimmons from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just a few questions on credit.
I know you have the total TDR number that you give us.
Would it be possible to get what part of that is accruing TDRs? I believe it was roughly $154 million last quarter.
Yes.
About 61% of the book is accruing.
50% is current and 11% is accruing but delinquent.
That is slightly up from the first quarter where it was about 58%.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
But the 61% of that balance you gave of TDRs is accruing? That's correct.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
And then should we think of the pace of under-providing as I believe you said a few quarters ago that it would probably be declining as time goes by because of working off more of that non-strategic portfolio? Should we think of that as the credit leverage theme continuing to play out probably continuing to under-provide net charge-offs but maybe at a lessening pace? I think that's a fair way to put it.
Our next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby from Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> I wanted to go back to the normalized earnings in a sense that the excess capital that we have and if you look at the positive trend that we're seeing and the momentum on the risk items the loss and the non-strategic items coming down basically I think starts to take off the risks in a sense of that a lot of that's covered in the capital cushion and we're already starting to see nice progress.
So once we get past that it really comes back to normalization.
If we look at continued operations this quarter about $0.15 worth of earnings you can add back the unusual items of $0.02 and that gets us to about $0.17 number.
And then if you look at the non-strategic so if we wipe out the loss that we have there that $11 million loss then you end up adding $0.03.
However we're not providing anything.
So if you take the provision back to a normal level you would take out $0.05.
You don't do a lot of gymnastics to get down to kind of a still run rate around $0.15 or $0.60 per year.
Bryan if we go back and look at the $60 million in incremental savings that you're -- we're now still working towards and what have in place by the end of the year that would add another $0.15.
So that gets us potentially up to $0.75.
Within the critical thing in my mind is that we kind of have to look for a normalized number around $1 which whould be kind of a long-term goal.
And there's really 2 levers to get there which would be further efficiencies or share repurchase.
So untapping those 2 things becomes pretty critical.
And so I was just wondering if we add another $40 million in expense savings we have to take the regional banking kind of efficiency ratio down towards 60 and then getting about $500 million worth of share repurchase that would give us the 20% accretion that could get us to $1.
So all that financial engineering to get back to really 2 questions can we see an additional $40 million to $50 million in expense savings? And is $500 million kind of the right bogey to think about eventually to be able to get back from the share repurchase? Marty this is Bryan.
I trust that BJ followed all the math problem.
Real simply on the expense side and we -- I talked about this in previous calls and I talked about it a lot internally.
Expense control has got to be cultural.
It doesn't have to be a project.
It's -- we talked about targets we laid out target $100 million.
We talked about $110 million.
That dont mean we get to that level and quit.
That means we keep going.
We're working to get more efficient day in day out.
And as I said in the comments earlier on we're targeting to see that 60% to 65% ratio sometime in 2013.
That means we've to get the efficiencies that we've talked about this morning and probably a little bit more.
It means that we've got to get some of these environmental or credit cycle kinds of cost reducing.
It means we'll probably get a little bit of continued help on the revenue side but we think we can do that.
And we think that the banking overhead efficiency ratio ought to be in the high-50s over time.
But we've got an opportunity to do that and we will.
And on the capital side as I mentioned earlier that's still going to evolve but that's an area that we're focused on.
We recognize that we have greater capital in the organization today than we believe we need to run it long term.
And we'll look for ways to be repatriate that to our shareholders either in dividend or stock buyback if we can't put it to work attractively in organic growth or otherwise.
So we're going to work through that process with the regulators on an appropriate fashion and at an appropriate time we'll deal with that.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Penala from Bank of America.
I wanted to ask about the timing of the repatriation.
I guess what I'm struggling with is you mentioned that there is regulatory involvement and not being able to buy back stock this quarter.
And you clearly have improving credit very high Tier 1 common ratios.
No matter what the eventual bogey ends up being.
And I'm wondering is the private label overhang preventing the timing of capital repatriation at this point in terms of your conversations with the regulators? Erika this is Bryan.
As you saw with the largest institutions there's a series of testing and stress testing and there's nothing about anything that we know about that would impact that.
It's just -- it's a process much like repaying the TARP.
You go through an analysis with the regulators.
You lay out stress testing.
You go through a lot of work.
It's takes a little bit of time.
It's done in connection with examination cycles and so on and so forth.
It's just a process and it then -- as far as I know it has nothing to do with anything on the balance sheet.
It's just where we are in the process.
Okay.
But is that -- I mean is that a big part of that process in terms of that discussion? Is that a variable that of course they're taking into account when thinking about timing and magnitude of distribution that they'll permit in 2011? Well yes.
Clearly our regulators they know us very well.
We spend a lot of time with them.
They're here with us on a 24/7 basis and we have a lot of transparency with the regulator.
And as you think about TARP repayment last year and as you think about capital repatriation this year all those issues are not new and all that gets factored into the analysis and stress testing around capital.
So I would say it's not a new issue or new discussion for our regulators.
That's factored into our capital management last year and I'm sure it will factor into our capital management again this year.
Okay.
And one more question and not on capital or buybacks or is that rather repurchase but in terms of Slide 9 it's clear that you've done a lot in terms of changing the culture of this firm.
And I'm wondering if you could give us an update in terms of the other side of the coin in terms of demand.
When you talk to your customers are they -- do they have enough confidence to expand or invest in their businesses this year and that we could actually see loan growth x residual loans x the correspondent banking momentum that you saw this quarter.
Is there enough confidence that we could see 2000 -- back half of the year C&amp;I loan growth on balance sheet? Yes.
If you look at the loan growth in the second quarter a couple of $100 million or so was the mortgage warehouse which was following that corresponding period category.
So we actually have 3 good growth in our large Corporate and our C&amp;I borrowings as well net loss would have been up and if you exclude what happened with loans to mortgage companies.
From the conversations we have with customers it's still mixed.
There are some customers principally our larger customers that are becoming more confident.
There seems to be some disparity on what segment of the economy is being served whether it's the consumer segment or whether it tends to be more of a manufacturing base of the segment -- of the economy.
But we're seeing a little bit better demand across the entire spectrum but particularly with our largest customer.
The only thing I would add is what Bryan said is exactly right.
But I think what you see in our results is our folks taking more share than there is demand out there that demand is still a bit mixed as Bryan said.
Our next question comes from Todd Hagerman from Sterne Agee.
On the reserve position just curious Bryan and BJ if you can kind of update on the credit side there was an earlier question on the kind of the pace of the reserve release but as I look at the numbers in terms of the regional bank and the non-strategic portfolio.
The regional bank the credit stats are pretty close to normal in my view and similarly we still have our ways to go on the non-strategic end but we're now -- you're now starting to see a little bit more momentum on the loan side.
TDRs are ticking up a little that.
How do we think about kind of the reserve coverage and again kind of the -- when you're going to have to start providing again for that incremental growth and the fact that kind of the core bank is close to normal if you will? Todd this is Greg Jardine.
I think what we're still seeing as I mentioned is some continued healing within the regional bank portfolios.
We're getting closer to normal but after the nuclear winner we're still not all the way to the normal high environment yet.
So I think the pace decreases in terms of the healing because we're getting closer and closer.
But if you look at our coverage ratios we still see we still have the decent coverage in the regional bank in the income CREs as an example.
And so I think you'll continue to see releases into -- a little bit into to future.
And at some point in time it stabilizes.
The other side of the equation obviously is the non-strategic.
And the C&amp;I portfolio in the CRE portfolios and non-strategic is almost wound down x the trough.
So I think that just continues to play out over the next foreseeable future.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But what I'm hearing is no real change kind of near term in terms of -- as I think about 2011.
I don't think so.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then just a separate question.
BJ just in terms of the MSR and the environmental costs if you will.
Just curious with the write-down in the MSR this quarter I'm just kind of curious kind of where -- if that was largely rate-driven if there was any incremental in terms of foreclosure-related cost issues that may have factored into that decision and then how do we think about kind of where you are on the expense side in terms of that run rate of environmental costs? And is there something based on all the discussion in terms of approval on the reps and warranties credit improvement and so forth is there anything -- any potential roadblocks or hurdles out there from preventing that environmental cost if you will from continuing to trend lower? Yes.
I think there are 2 questions there.
One on the MSR it wasn't anything special.
You will see if you look back in our supplement that there were some change in the prepayment rates interest rates that weren't credit related.
So there's not anything particularly special going on on the MSR valuation.
And so as it relates to the environmental expenses coming down sitting here today we expect that to continue to trend down nicely as we've seen over the last several quarters.
We can always have something that comes up that we don't anticipate whether it's double dip in the economy or other factors.
But in general based on what we can see sitting here today we expect that to continue to come down in a very nice growth over the next few years.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Reynolds from Wunderlich Securities.
Bryan a couple of questions for you.
I mean most of mine have been answered and we've kind of gone way down into the granular part of the soil.
But bigger picture I know one data point doesn't really make a trend but does it feel to you like with core revenue up slightly this quarter do you feel like your business might have made a turn on an overall basis? Or are you not comfortable saying that yet? And then I've got a follow-up question on capital markets.
Sure.
I think your question assumes or makes us I guess an embedded or implied assumption about what happens in the economy.
The economy is still improving in our view.
But clearly there's been some tremors through in terms of the last couple of months.
It probably doesn't feel like it's improving at the same rate it did maybe even 90 days ago.
But that said I feel very very good about the momentum that we see in our business as we talked about the loan portfolios and the growth there as BJ rightly pointed out the great job that our folks are doing on winning market share in a difficult operating environment where loan growth is probably not as strong.
I feel good about the momentum in the balance sheet.
I feel good about the momentum in our revenue streams.
And as we said at the very beginning we're working real hard to control what we can control winning customer business serving those customers well getting more efficient and growing the business in a thoughtful and profitable manner for our shareholders.
And so to me yes it feels like we're making good progress on those fronts.
It gets diluted or masked from time to time by what happens in the non-strategic portfolio but the core franchise both banking and capital markets seems to have very good momentum.
Okay.
And then I guess a follow-up question on the capital markets.
The trends -- the revenue trends are down.
We know your business is largely fixed income sales to the community banks out there across the country.
Can you read into lesser activity the fact that there may be a slight uptick in loan activity for those banks out there or may it be a slower inflows of deposits and less liquidity just sort of building up on the balance sheets of these banks? I think it's probably more the latter coupled with the fact that 3% plus or minus 10-year treasury gets harder to pull the trigger particularly when you question whether rates are going to get higher whether they're going to get lower.
And in early part of the quarter rate seems to be picking up a little bit and they rallied in later in the quarter and volume picked up.
So I think it's probably more of latter.
If liquidity continues to build then at the same time you're seeing rates that pull on the trigger it gets more difficult at different levels.
Our next question comes from the line of Jefferson Harralson from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> You touched on it a little bit but I want to ask you about home equity.
If some of the weakness you're talking about maybe in the last 90 days is there anything tangible you're seeing that might made you think that home equity delinquencies or loss rates changed versus your original expectations in the second half of the year? Jefferson this is Greg Jardine.
No.
I think we as you know as we look quarter-over-quarter actually a quarter trend you see our delinquencies decreased in the home equity book.
And so we are actually seeing it's been stabilized to improving across those books.
If you look in the regional bank it's a very clean book.
And then the non-strategic home equity book quarter-over-quarter you can look at the metrics and see the improvements.
So we're not seeing anything that would indicate to us that it would move a different direction.
We'll obviously keep our eye on the unemployment figures but to date that has not been an impact.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And how about the concept of principal forgiveness and some of these settlements you're talking about.
Do you think a concept about principal forgiveness could come in and affect these products at all? Yes.
Certainly any kind of regulatory other impact like that is not there we have to keep an eye on.
But I hate to speculate one way or another on that but we watch it.
I don't know that the momentum is picking up that direction but we keep an eye on it.
And our next question comes from the line of Mac Hodgson from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick clarifying question on expenses and the target of 20% 25% reduction from the 2010 level by the end of 2013.
Does that assume that you'll have any environmental cost in 2013? Or is that exclusive of environmental cost? It does include some.
I think I said in the past that in 2013 we'll still have non-strategic expenses largely because we'll still have a non-strategic book.
We'll still have mortgage servicing all that kind of stuff that's in those numbers.
But I think what we're seeing is that those numbers assuming credit continues to improve the cycle continues to normalize that those expenses will continue to fall out of the run rate.
Inc.</strong> I didn't mean non-strategic I meant environmental cost will be in that 2013 number? Correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So you've got some environmental stuff baked into that number.
We do.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Bryan Jordan for any further comments.
Thank you operator.
Thank you for your questions.
Thank you for participating in our call this morning.
We appreciate your interest.
If you have any further questions please don't hesitate to contact one of us during the day or sometime next week.
I hope everyone have a wonderful weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Aarti Bowman Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking statements and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and in our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and it is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Greg Jardine will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
With that I'll turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning and thanks for joining the call.
During the third quarter we continued to successfully execute on our strategic priorities by controlling what we can control.
Our core businesses performed well.
Regional bank pretax income was up 26% linked quarter and capital markets revenues increased 26%.
We made progress in lowering expenses in our core businesses.
Balance sheet trends were favorable with period end loans up 1% average core deposits up 2% and consolidated net interest margin was up modestly.
We also made headway in exiting non-strategic business by selling about $150 million of nonperforming loans.
On Slide 4.
We're making solid progress in strengthening our core businesses and working hard to overcome economic and regulatory headwinds.
Our bankers are focused on providing exceptional service expanding customer relationships and proactively soliciting new business.
As a result we've seen solid market share gains across our footprint.
According to recent FDIC data our deposits in Tennessee increased 6.5% over last year compared to the 2.5% growth rate in the markets we serve.
We retained our top ranking in our west and east regions and we continue to make progress in middle Tennessee.
For the second year in a row we outpaced the market in Nashville as our deposits grew 7.4% and our share increased 30 basis points.
We're also seeing encouraging loan growth trends.
To date our bankers have made almost 40 000 calls on existing and prospective customers.
This effort has paid off as period end loans in the regional bank were up 5% from last quarter driven by loans to mortgage companies corporate borrowers and asset-based lending.
We remain focused on replacing our lower yielding non-strategic loans with better-priced relationship-oriented assets.
Again our strategy is working.
Despite competitive loan pricing pressures loan yields and the bank were relatively stable from second to third quarter.
The regional bank posted 2% total revenue growth second to third quarter driven by higher net interest income and steady fee income.
Implementation of the Durbin amendment this month will pressure banking industry fees and we expect roughly a $20 million impact to annual revenue.
To offset lost revenue we continue to make pricing adjustments but we are taking a thoughtful approach to ensure we provide true customer value.
For example beginning later this month we are initiating a $0.04 charge per PIN debit transaction $0.14 on signature transactions and capping the monthly fee at a maximum of $3.
Capital markets had a strong quarter with fixed income averaging daily -- with fixed income average daily revenue increasing 28% to $1.4 million in the third quarter from the second quarter.
Our unique business model which is focused on distribution and not proprietary trading combined with the depth and diversification of our customer base across the depository and non-depository sectors positioned us well for market conditions.
Productivity and efficiency improvement remains a top priority for us.
We made good progress in the third quarter with regional bank expenses down 4% and an improved efficiency ratio of 66% in the bank.
However environmental costs remain elevated as mortgage repurchase provision expense increased from last quarter.
In our core businesses we are on track with our efficiency initiatives and now expect $124 million in cost savings.
We estimate that we realized an annualized $88 million of cost saves in our third quarter run rate.
Our productivity efforts are starting to pay off.
For example revenue per FTE in the regional bank increased 5% from last quarter.
We continue to work toward our goal of achieving a 60% to 65% consolidated efficiency ratio.
Turning to credit quality.
We were able to accelerate the reduction of our nonperforming loans selling approximately $150 million in net book value of nonperformers.
These NPLs were mostly in our non-strategic permanent mortgage portfolio and the loss on sale impacted third quarter provision by $36 million.
For the quarter consolidated provision was $32 million and total net charge-offs were $106 million.
The loan sales impacted third quarter charge-offs accounting for 45% of total net charge-offs.
To sum up third quarter results demonstrated that we are continuing to successfully execute as I said controlling what we can control which is resulting in solid core business performance.
BJ will now take you through the detailed financial review and I'll be back with some closing comments.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 6.
Net income available to shareholders was $36 million and earnings per share were $0.14 in the third quarter compared to the second quarter's net income of $20 million and EPS of $0.08.
Core business net income was $94 million compared to $27 million in the second quarter.
While third quarter's bottom line was solid there were also some significant items.
We executed nonperforming loan sales as Bryan said approximating $150 million in net book value.
Provision impact from loss on these sales was $36 million.
We also sold some Visa shares in the third quarter as a -- for a securities gain of $35 million.
Expenses related to our restructuring repositioning and efficiency initiatives were $2 million down from $17 million in the second quarter; and additionally a previously announced divestiture resulted in an after-tax gain of about $5 million within discontinued ops.
Moving to Slide 7.
Take a look at some segment highlights.
Pretax income in the regional bank increased to $94 million from $74 million in the second quarter.
We booked a provision credit of $22.7 million compared to $13.7 million in the second quarter as we saw continued credit improvement in our loan portfolios.
Revenues were up 2%.
NII was up primarily from a higher volume of loans to mortgage companies.
Fees were stable.
Regional bank expenses declined $6 million linked quarter and were down $15 million from third quarter 2010.
In our capital markets segment pretax income increased to $28 million in the third quarter compared to a pretax loss of $20 million in the second which included a $36.7 million litigation settlement expense.
Fixed income average daily revenues increased to $1.4 million in the third quarter from $1.1 million in the second.
Growth in average daily revenues reflects the strength of our extensive distribution network and our substantial penetration of the depository customer segment combined with favorable market conditions.
Following the Fed's early August announcement of an extended low rate -- interest rate environment we saw our customers begin to deploy a greater amount of their excess liquidity resulting in increased fixed income buying activity.
Since we generate the vast majority of our revenue from sales and distribution activities on behalf of our clients we benefit when there is strong buying activity while avoiding significant negative trading results experienced by the firms.
We believe that in the near term fixed income average daily revenues could stay elevated within this range.
However as always our performance remains sensitive to interest rate changes and the overall economic environment among other factors.
In our corporate segment pretax income was $19 million in the third quarter compared to a loss of $27 million in the second.
Third quarter included $35 million in securities gains from the sale of Visa stock and lower restructuring expense.
In the non-strategic segment pretax income was a loss of $98 million compared to a loss of $13 million in the second quarter.
The increased pretax loss was driven by a higher loan loss provision primarily driven by the loan sales increased mortgage repurchase provision expense as well as elevated cost from the transfer to a new sub-servicer and a negative adjustment in our mortgage warehouse valuation.
On Slide 8 we'll take a look at balance sheet and net interest margin trends.
Consolidated net interest margin was relatively stable at 3.23% compared to 3.20% in the second quarter.
Core business net interest margin was 3.52%.
Positive drivers for margin included higher loan volume lower deposit costs which were somewhat offset by lower reinvestment rates in the securities portfolio.
Over the next several quarters we expect to defend the margin by replacing lower yielding non-strategic assets with better priced regional bank assets further reducing deposit pricing and experiencing less of a drag from nonperformers.
However there's likely to be continued pressure with lower reinvestment yields in the securities portfolio and margin is likely to decline modestly by a few basis points per quarter over the next several quarters.
As you can see on Slide 9 loan pipeline trends in our regional bank continue to be encouraging as loan commitments and loans funded are up compared to last year.
Although borrowers remain cautious we're seeing areas of demand from customers in our corporate asset-based lending CRE and mortgage warehouse lending segments.
With revenue demand pricing and structure remains competitive.
Our loan yields in the regional bank were relatively stable at 4.01% compared to last quarter's yields at 4.02%.
Given the competitive environment we expect yields will be under pressure.
Nonetheless new loans being booked in the regional bank continue to be better priced than regional banking and non-strategic assets that are running off our balance sheet.
Moving to expenses on Slide 10.
We were very pleased with our continued progress here.
Consolidated expenses declined 6% from last quarter.
Regional banking expenses decreased 4% as we continue to implement cost-save initiatives.
Productivity and efficiency actions in the third quarter include reductions of FTEs lower discretionary spending and gaining efficiency from exited businesses.
We will continue to evaluate efficiency actions such as consolidating branches and further process improvements and we should also benefit from technology investments.
Over the long term we continue to target a 25% reduction from the level of 2010 consolidated expenses mostly by the end of 2013.
Moving on to mortgage repurchase on Slide 11.
Linked quarter mortgage repurchase provision expense increased to $53 million from $25 million.
Net realized losses matched provision leaving reserves flat at $169 million.
The rescission rate stayed steady in July and August but trended lower in September reflecting a higher mix of mortgage insurance-related resolutions leading to higher loss content.
In the quarter the GSEs made a push to resolve by September 30 unresolved repurchase claims based on MI coverage loss.
To some extent this accelerated charge-offs and contributed to third quarter's higher level of losses.
Our operational pipeline dropped from $451 million to $418 million with new requests of $200 million and resolutions of $237 million.
The operational pipeline includes requests where mortgage insurance cancellations are under review.
Once this coverage is lost it comes out of our operational pipeline but we continue to consider these loans in the reserve calculation.
The GSEs appear to have become more aggressive in their recovery efforts.
Quarter-to-quarter we are likely to see volatility in repurchase expense from the variances in the mix of both inflows and resolutions.
Sitting here today we expect our repurchase inflows to be reasonably steady resolutions to continue to be strong and we also still believe we're on the backside of GSE-related repurchase requests.
Moving to Slide 12 a minute on private mortgage securitizations.
We still have had no repurchase requests from these securitizations to date.
We still currently have 4 lawsuits related to private mortgage securitizations including the FHFA lawsuit.
Our private mortgage securitizations have generally performed favorably overall to the industry cohort benchmarks.
As you can see on this slide 66% of private mortgage securitizations are outperforming industry cohort on cum loss and 81% of these securitizations are outperforming cohorts on 60-day-plus delinquencies.
Our mix is different.
We did no subprime and additionally reps and warranties are generally more limited than for GSE whole-loan sales.
Considering the differences between the private securitizations and GSE loans that we've outlined on the slide we continue to believe right now that our private securitization risk is likely to be significantly less than our experience with GSEs which continues to be manageable as an earnings headwind.
Moving to asset quality on Slide 13.
Credit quality metrics continue to be positive.
NPAs declined.
Net charge-offs excluding the loan sales were down.
Loan sales of about $150 million and net book value included $126 million from our perm mortgage portfolio and about $24 million from our commercial loan portfolio.
UPB on the sold loans was $220 million reflecting a 47% blended mark on the loan sales.
Reserves decreased $74 million including $12 million associated with the loan sales.
Despite several quarters of reserve releases our reserved to loans remained healthy at $277 million.
Given that our credit quality trends are generally favorable we expect additional reserve releases but the rate of reserve decrease could slow down depending on the economic environment.
Moving to Slide 14.
Nonperforming assets declined 22% linked quarter primarily due to the loan sales and upgrades in our commercial portfolios.
In addition to broad-based improvement in our loan portfolios we expect that the sale of nonperforming should be favorable to overall credit quality metrics in the future.
Wrapping up on Slide 15.
Our core businesses showed good progress in reaching our long-term bonefish targets as we focus on controlling what we can control with solid trends in the regional bank continued strong performance in our capital markets business and improving productivity and efficiency.
Although the non-strategic segment and mortgage repurchase remain a drag I'm pleased with the momentum in the bank and in our capital markets business.
Bryan? Thank you BJ.
Heading into the final quarter of 2011 I'm encouraged by the First Horizon team's progress in successfully executing our strategy and I'm confident that we have the ability to continue to streamline and strengthen our business model profitably growing our core businesses significantly improving productivity and efficiency and favorably shifting our asset mix.
We are also taking a disciplined approach to capital deployment and today we launched a $100-million common stock repurchase program.
We and the industry are facing economic and regulatory headwinds and we remain in a slow growth environment but with our dedicated team and customer focus we will continue to make steady progress.
Thank you and now we'll take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bob Patten of Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bryan BJ or anybody who wants to throw it in on the loan sale just talk how we should be thinking about the rest of the portfolio as we took a 24% sort of write-down on that mortgage book.
This is Greg Jardine.
Well I think couple things: One that was a sale of nonperforming assets and it was a bulk sale.
And as I've mentioned in other calls we explore the market all the time and what we found in this particular case was that the bid ask was in an area of which we felt comfortable with.
So the 188 of UPB the net book value was 67% of that and so we had a 60 -- another 68% execution against net book value and we took a significant tail risk off by nonperforming perm mortgages.
So in that case Bob we feel very comfortable.
As you know we have done some bulk sales not something of this size because we get basically good execution on one-off sales but this made sense for the rate we got.
This was principally Greg product that came out of the mortgage company that was originated.
It was scratch-and-dent at the time.
That wasnt saleable in the whole-loan market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then one last question Bryan.
Just some thinking around the $100 million share buyback and how you came to that number.
Did you guys request more? Is it an ongoing process? And when do you guys if you use this up think you'd be eligible to go back and talk about increasing that? Yes let me try to start with the calendar.
This is -- we think based on everything we've been able to gather that the process around the other than 19 is not as structured a process so we think it's a continuing dialogue with the regulators.
So with that said we think that we have the opportunity to revisit the issue in the future.
We made an initial request of $100 million from our perspective that capital management is a process.
We'll work through it with the regulators and we'll continue to evaluate the timing of repurchases and so on and so forth.
So that was our initial request.
We will work with the regulators in the future as we work through that.
We'll continue to evaluate how we manage our capital base.
As I've said in the past we think that we have a very strong capital base.
We think over time as the economy improves we'll have a fair amount of excess capital to deploy either in repurchasing stock or investment in the business.
But we're going to be very disciplined in the way we do it and that involves working with our regulators.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First on the buybacks are there any restrictions in terms of the timing and how -- I know you said August 2012 but that's obviously over a full year.
Are you more -- are you thinking that you'd rather buy back sooner later just want to spread out evenly? Ken this is Bryan.
As you'd properly noted the authorization approved by the board expires in August of next year.
We're going to be -- we're going to pick our spots and we're going to try to buy at attractive valuations.
And if that means being slow and deliberate we'll be slow and deliberate.
If it means accelerating we'll do that as well.
We're going to pick our spots and we're going to look at it on a day-to-day basis as market conditions dictate and we'll take advantage of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do you have any additional NPL portfolios that are similar in quality or type to the ones that you sold such that we may actually see another bulk sale if opportunity presents? Well we obviously have more nonperforming loans in our portfolio and we do explore and we'll continue to explore the market.
When the opportunity is acceptable to us we may in fact do another sale.
But were not -- we don't feel that we're compelled to have to go out and do bulk sales but we will on an opportunistic basis look at opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then just on the GSEs really quick.
You said the increase this quarter in terms of lost content was because of a push the GSEs were doing on the MI loans.
All things considered if we sort of look at the trend in losses backing out that "increase " I mean is it feasible to assume we're back down to sort of more trend-line reduction? Or are we more at kind of this higher level going forward? Ken it's BJ.
Here's how I'd tell you to think about it.
There's 2 pieces to the mortgage repurchase provision as you know.
Theres the actual charge-off so the losses we realize and then there's the calculation of the reserve.
The latter the reserve is harder to pinpoint because you obviously have to look at the mix of resolutions and inflows and all that kind of stuff on a forward-looking basis.
But from a charge-off perspective the way I see it is this was an acceleration in this quarter; and therefore the realized losses that we saw this quarter may in fact be elevated or high.
And I would expect that charge-offs may very likely come down from this level over the next few quarters.
Again the provision itself will depend on how we look at the reserve and the mix of it but I would expect that the actual charge-offs may likely come down.
Our next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bryan I wanted to ask you on just announcing the stock buyback what changed that now is the right time to announce this? Are you feeling better on mortgage repurchase risk? Or is it just with the stock below tangible book it's the best use of capital? Well as I sort of hinted in the second quarter call Steve that we're going to be disciplined about deploying capital.
And I said at the time we would work with our regulators and we'll work through that process in the third quarter with our regulators.
As I said to Bob we made an initial request of $100 million and I guess nothing else.
We had a press release going out this morning on earnings so we just attached it to that.
Research Division</strong> So we shouldn't read into it that you're feeling better about credit quality mortgage repurchase or anything like that? Well I guess I don't know how you would define better.
I guess I would tell you that we feel good about credit quality.
We feel like credit quality's been improving.
That's consistent with what we've been saying for an extended period of time.
Our mortgage repurchase exposure BJ talked a fair amount about both the GSEs and the privates.
We do think we're on the backside with the GSEs.
We're 3 years out from the last loan we originated and sold to the GSEs.
The private securitizations for the reasons that BJ described in detail we feel that the private securitization exposure is likely to be significantly less than the exposure to the GSEs and we think it is well manageable as an earnings headwind.
So from our perspective our balance sheet is getting better.
I think our balance sheet is better today than it was 3 months ago.
I think it's better than it was 6 months ago.
I think it's better than it was 1.5 years ago.
So I think every quarter our balance sheet continues to get better and some of these actions to resolve nonperforming assets the residential mortgages that we've talked about the NPA sale.
So I feel good about our balance sheet.
I feel good about our capital position and I feel good about the trajectory our business is on.
I think our bankers our capital markets teams are executing very well on customer business.
So all of that said we feel like we've got a very strong capital base.
We think it's appropriate to manage that capital base smartly in a disciplined fashion and when appropriate return excess capital to our shareholders and that's the step we've taken.
Our next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just on the capital markets revenues.
I'm wondering what level of activity you're seeing kind of quarter to date here in October and at the end of September relative to the July and August levels.
It's BJ.
I would say kind of as I said in my prepared remarks that we still see strong flows in activity in that business.
We do business on behalf of our clients so we're sales and distribution not trading.
And so when there's a lot of activity callable activity on the agency side for instance or the flattening of the curve tends to benefit us because clients have cash flows that are rolling off and they need to reinvest it at rates higher than cash.
So all of those things tend to favor us and we're still seeing those trends going into October.
Research Division</strong> And then we heard your comments related to higher volatility trends given the more aggressive nature of the GSE putbacks.
But given the mortgage repurchase losses now if you look at reserve coverage that are less than one year I'm wondering should we really expect losses to decline from here? Well let me give you a little more color than even I gave a couple questions ago Craig.
Our losses our actual losses in July were $10 million.
Our losses in August were $13 million and our losses in September were $29 million.
The high watermark for any particular month over the last 18 months had been around $14.8 million or so.
So that coupled with the communication that we did receive from the GSEs that they wanted to resolve certain types of claims by 9/30 leads me to believe that there was certainly an acceleration of our charge-offs.
So those are all things that we have contemplated we have always contemplated in our reserve calculations.
So even with a higher level of charge-offs you didn't necessarily see higher level of reserves for future content based on what we see in the pipeline today and what I call our operational pipeline continues to go down.
So what that means is we have folks literally working on claims.
Once MI coverage is actually lost there's literally nothing else for our folks to work on.
So it comes out of our pipeline but it continues to be accounted for in our reserve.
I see that as a positive sign as that at some point we don't have to work these anymore and we're just waiting to literally resolve the paperwork on it one way or the other.
So I continue to see good progress good trends good work from our folks and as I've said before I actually believe that the level of charge-offs are likely to be down over the next few quarters.
Our next question comes from Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was going to ask you about the change in sub-servicing sub-servicer and it looks like you had a litigation reserve release there.
Does that mean that you are not exposed to litigation and any potential settlements that that sub-servicer might have with the service that you sold them? Jefferson it's BJ.
I'm not sure about a litigation reserve release.
We did have about a $1.2 million or so contingent liability that we released but that was related to MetLife.
It was in early termination contingent liability which we obviously don't have anymore and we didn't do anything on litigation.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so following up on the MetLife thing is I guess theyre a part of the servicer suit.
You're not.
By going away from them and finishing this contract would that make you I guess not potentially liable for pieces of the servicing you did through the period? Well again MetLife was the one that as part of the foreclosure assessment process they are our sub-servicer so we are working with them and monitoring what they are doing closely to ensure that what they worked on on our behalf was done in the right way.
But as I've said before that's their issue but we are working with them and monitoring closely our risk related to it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so secondly what's the milepost we should look for on this FHFA lawsuit? Jefferson this is Bryan.
I think we're a ways away from any of the mileposts.
At this point none of the discovery the responses -- it's very very early in that process and I think this is a process that's going to take some time to resolve.
As we've said in the past we feel like we've got a strong position and we intend to try to vigorously defend that position.
Our next question comes from Brian Foran of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a sense of what a normalized size for the mortgage warehouse portfolio within the C&amp;I book the mortgage warehouse companys correspondent banking at $1.1 billion? Brian it's BJ.
As you can see that's really going to fluctuate.
I think we've had a high of $1 billion or $1.1 billion and something as low as $300 million to $400 million.
So I'm not sure I can tell you from quarter-to-quarter.
It depends on what the mortgage applications look like across the industry and so it's going to fluctuate but probably between these 2 goal posts.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as we think about kind of the core NIM can you just remind us -- in the regional banking segment the NIM is actually higher than loan yields.
Is there some kind of deposit credit transfer pricing credit? And if so does the non-strategic segment pay for that? Or does the corporate segment pay for that? Yes there is a funds credit that the bank gets for deposits and no the non-strategic does not pay for that.
It's balanced out in our corporate segment in the way we balance the balance sheet in ALCO.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Jessica Ribner for Paul.
We just had a couple of questions on the trading revenue and also the decline in mortgage revenue.
Where did the decline in mortgage revenue come from? And can we expect this number going forward? I think our mortgage -- this is BJ.
I think our mortgage net hedging results were about $7 million versus $15 million last quarter.
We saw after the Fed's announcement on Operation Twist a lot of volatility in our hedge assets as it relates to the MSR book.
So we saw the positive ineffectiveness come down pretty materially but it was still positive for the quarter.
So when we planned for this we planned for very modest revenues.
And so we plan for the $7 million to $10 million range every quarter so this is roughly within the range that we would model internally.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then can you go through -- I know you were saying that your trading revenue is mostly client driven.
Is that commissions or just market making? I guess the point I was making is if you look at our fixed income business model versus some other ones out on the street we do all of our business really for the benefit of our clients.
So we're doing sales.
We're distributing product.
We're matching up buyers and sellers and we're not necessarily trading -- or we are not trading on our own book and I think that's a quite different model from what you'll see out on the street.
And so when you see volatility in fixed income results elsewhere you may see it from trading results whereas for us it's literally going to be related to the level of activity or the volatility or the volume of what you're seeing in the market.
And when that happens we're going to benefit in that environment.
Our next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On the private label side can you talk a little bit again about why you think the losses or the risks to be significant less than what you're seeing on the GSE side? I know you're emphasizing that this quarter again particularly since you haven't seen any putbacks yet.
John it's BJ.
I think we've -- if you go back and look at what I said in the prepared remarks if you even go back and look at what we said in second quarter we just look at what the -- what we've experienced with GSEs and we take a look at what the reps and warranties were on those types of loans versus what the reps and warranties were on privates and the significant differences between the 2 which are mitigating factors number one.
Number two we look at our performance versus industry to get a general feel of how we're performing.
Third we did no subprime securitization and I think if you look at the industry mix there was 30-plus percent of subprime done during this time period.
So all of these things kind of put in a bucket and the BofA settlement whether or not it goes through provided somewhat of a benchmark if you will.
And as we outlined in the second quarter our delinquencies and defaults relative to that portfolio are significantly better and so we couple all that GSE stuff couple anything that we know externally.
We study our securitizations in detail and we come to the conclusion sitting here today that it could be significantly less than what we've experienced in GSEs.
One thing I would add John -- this is Bryan -- is that the starting balances originated were roughly half of what we originated and if you look at the mix there it was about 40% jumbo about 60% Alt-A.
Jumbo has performed very well as BJ pointed out in his prepared comments and if you factor in just the aggregate size of what was originated you factor in potentially the statutes of limitations and other factors we do conclude that is significantly less in all likelihood than what we've experienced on the GSE side.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to really spend that much time of this issue Bryan but if it is the big issue for the stock or one of the main issues out there on when does this when does this play out and what the magnitude will be I would have to imagine having gone through this process with the regulators and while maybe you can't be that specific with us you can give us a general sense that if they are going to approve you to do buybacks I would think they'd be interested in what the exposure is and how long it takes to play out.
So I know we haven't had a private request come yet but from an investor's point of view who's trying to gauge the timeline of when this plays out what's your best guess and how is that factored into the analysis that likely took place with the regulators for the buyback? Yes.
Kevin the timeline on it is going to take a while.
I mentioned where we are in the FHFA suit.
That's going to take a while but I think it's appropriate for us to take the time to start the discovery process to defend the position.
If there are -- there are factors that are just going to take a while to work through and it's not something that's going to be a quick resolution.
That said as you would expect when we make application to -- or consult with our regulators to manage our capital level we walk through stress testing the significant risks in the balance sheet.
And we lay that out over time and we lay it out and compared to where our balance sheet is what our credit quality looks like what our GSE exposures looks like what our private label securities potentially exposure looks like and we put all that together and we stress our capital.
And we put forth a proposal and the regulators are they are with the organization and evaluate us on a long-term basis.
So it's a process that is sort of all put together.
It doesn't -- unfortunately it doesn't work with a timeline in terms of when the GSEs or when the private label securities might come to a resolution.
It's just going to take some time.
As we said we will continue to work on it.
And I would add this that in some sense time is our friend when it comes to dealing with the GSEs and the private label securities.
Every day that goes by more loans pay down more loans pay off.
The exposure continues to reduce and as we pointed out a couple of times we haven't originated or sold any of these loans going back over 3 years and over that period.
The last ones originated and sold were August of 2008.
Over that period you've gone through the worst housing crisis in possibly the nation's history and we've gone through a 25- 30-year high in unemployment.
So it's just going to take some time to work through it.
We're trying to be patient and deliver it in the way we do that.
We're looking for opportunities to resolve it but it's a process we just have to work.
Our next question comes from Tony Davis of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> There are I guess some issues at the bank outside of rep and warranty.
Aside from warehouse has the strength that you saw in the C&amp;I and CRE book pipelines in August and July Bryan is that continued into September and October? And has there been any improvement in your draw rate? Yes I'll let Greg sort of help me out here but the pipelines in early October were sort of consistent with where we saw them at the end of September.
They might have been a little bit lower than they would have been going in to the early second quarter but still pretty solid.
We're still seeing reasonable customer activity.
Competition is still fairly intense for loan deals that are out there.
As I've said for several quarters we're still seeing later-cycle behaviors in terms of pricing and structure.
But overall pipelines have continued to be modest but strong relative to an economic recovery that's sort of running in the low-single digits.
Greg? Yes I couldn't add much more to that Bryan.
I think that's exactly what we see.
Competition one thing I would say is the competition in the income CRE space has increased kind of quarter-over-quarter as some of the larger banks have come back into that market but it's still in relatively good shape.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg any further color on that and high [ph] in terms of maybe credit spreads today and income CRE or small business middle market C&amp;I versus say 3 to 6 months ago? Yes I think in C&amp;I it's going to depend upon really the segment we're in.
In the corporate area that's pretty transparent in terms of what spreads are.
Small business lending those spreads are typically holding fairly stable.
In kind of the middle market is where you see a lot of pressure in terms of structure and pricing as some banks have kind of got out of the CRE business and gone into the C&amp;I space.
I don't have the exact number quarter-over-quarter in front of me but we're seeing some pressure there and in the municipal market as well.
There's some aggressive pricing in the municipal market.
Tony this is Bryan.
Again if you look at it over the last couple of quarters really last 1.5 years we saw spreads and new originations continue to build.
They started flattening out some in the early part of this year and I expect them to sort of to be flat to down-ish just a little bit over the next couple of quarters as you see this pricing structure pressure in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from Kevin Reynolds of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> And I guess this is kind of following up on Tony's question.
I mean since July and August the world apparently has to come to an end out there if you watch the news at all and I'm trying to figure out how behaviors have changed.
Not just what do the numbers show but as you talk to your customers out there maybe across the State of Tennessee in the regional bank do you get the sense that customers are getting more nervous or maybe adapting to the environment that we're in right now? And has their actual behavior changed on the ground? Have they hunkered down and gone into hiding? Or are they just sort of grinding right through this situation? Kevin this is Bryan.
Yes I think -- I've said a number of times that if -- I think people's sort of nervousness in this environment is directly proportional to how much TV they watch how much they read about it.
My sense of our customers is that they are continuing to transact to act in a way that is consistent with a modest low-single digits type recovery.
Clearly people are paying attention a little more to what's going on in Europe and what's going on in the U.S.
economy because it is so prevalent in the media.
But it doesn't feel to us at this point that customers have really pulled back.
I would say that the customer base that we do business with and our surrounding marketplace feels to me a lot like it's been through 2008.
It's been through a tough environment in 2009.
People have right sized costs.
Theyve got their expectations right sized for the economic environment that we're in and people continue to move forward at a modest pace.
Research Division</strong> Have you noticed any changes out there with respect to your competitors maybe without naming names? But are competitors starting to become nervous on the bank side with how they allocate credit in the marketplace? Yes I don't know that it would be -- I don't have any way to speak for competitors and that said though we've seen a little bit of shift in product mix or people who are doing -- appear to be doing less commercial real estate and things like that.
But we don't see anything that I think is worthy to comment on unless you have something Greg that's different.
No it's just I think there are certain areas as I mentioned municipal where the pricing has gotten very thin so you do see competitors that are definitely running at certain segments pretty hard.
That over the last 120 days or so is something that we've seen.
I think you can sort of conclude Kevin that late-cycle behavior and structure in pricing tells you that people aren't particularly nervous about where the economy is at this point.
Our next question comes from Chris Gamaitoni of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you tell us where you're putting gross new origination yields on today? Gross new origination yields? On commercial loans or...
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean the weighted book would be great or commercial loans anything you want to give me.
Yes I think Chris we have in our slide presentation some commercial loan yields and what we're putting stuff on at.
Chris it's on Page 8 and 9 of the slide presentation.
I think that that may even be stated in terms of spreads right? Yes one is yields.
Thats the portfolio.
Bank and consolidated.
It's in our supplement as well the breakdown between commercial and consumer.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Bloomberg reported that the Fed and OCC was looking at home equity review.
Have you had any conversations with regulators regarding your Home Equity or any color into that situation whether it's happening with your or what they're looking at? Yes.
This is Bryan Chris.
I'm not sure that there's anything any different when we go through the exam process.
It's a thorough process and they look at all aspects of business and naturally the Home Equity portfolios because of the relative size on our balance sheet that's a natural part of it but it just appears to us to be part of the natural exam process.
Our next question comes from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bryan I want to look at the Bonefish slide and just focus on the core margin and that that was down from last quarter.
Should we expect that to slip a little further in the fourth quarter?  And does that change at all your targets on the core margin going forward? Chris it's BJ.
I think that it's a positive thing what we're seeing.
It's just movement between some of the segments but what our long-term targets are to have 3.50% to 4% net interest margin across the company.
Core business is where we're going to get it.
In this low rate environment it's hard to defend that margin.
Once interest rates normalize based on our asset sensitivity you should see that continue to move up.
But the movement there is nothing that we're very concerned about.
We're still very pleased with our margin in the core.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then incremental progress on the reported NIM in the 3.20s is it still possible as we go forward? Well I think I've said in my prepared remarks that the longer this low-rate environment lasts the harder it is for us to defend the margins.
So the way we're doing it is better-yielding assets coming on in the regional bank replacing lower-yielding assets either in the bank or in our non-strategic.
We'll continue to do that.
We'll continue to bring our deposit costs down marginally but the reinvestment rates that we're seeing on the portfolio will certainly create a headwind.
So the way I see the margin over the next several quarters is us defending flat as well as we can but most likely seeing a few basis points decline per quarter over the next several quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Then just a follow-up on where cash dividends sit as a priority the next 12 to 18 months.
Yes Chris this is Bryan.
That's something that we will evaluate in due course and it's -- cash dividends are an important part of capital repatriation given the current valuation of the stock price relative to tangible book value.
From an immediacy standpoint the repurchase initiatives seem to take priority but we will evaluate it and continue to work through that over time.
Our final question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a clarification on the repurchase reserves.
I think you've said in the past you don't have any specific reserves allocated to the private label portion.
Is that correct? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then secondarily Bryan do you have any updated thoughts on the M&amp;A environment and maybe as a way of repatriation of capital or a way to generate earnings while we're in this kind of slower growth environment? Yes Michael this is an environment where I think M&amp;A is going to be reasonably slow for a while.
I think with valuations hit as hard as they've been hit over the last 90 days I don't think it makes a lot of sense in many ways for buyers and maybe for sellers.
So I think it will be a little bit slower than it has been or seeming to build.
So I think it's going to take a little time.
Valuations are going to have to get right.
Given the valuations of our currency I think capital repatriation makes more sense in the short run than M&amp;A unless it's an extraordinarily attractive financial transaction.
So I just think it's going to be slow for a while.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Bryan for any final remarks.
Thank you operator.
We appreciate all of you participating in the call this morning.
Please let us know if you have further questions or need additional information.
I hope everyone has a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Aarti Bowman of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly report.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update those.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Greg Jardine will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
2011 marked another year of successful execution of our strategic priorities positioning us for further progress in 2012 and moving us closer to achieving our long-term profitability goals.
We continue to positively shift our business mix profitably building our core businesses regional banking and capital markets while reducing our lower margin Non-Strategic segment.
We lowered expenses while maintaining superior customer service.
We continued to improve our asset quality significantly reducing credit-related costs.
And we managed our excess capital in a disciplined manner repurchasing $44 million of stock in the fourth quarter.
Our efforts to improve profitability in our core businesses are paying off.
As you can see on Slide 4 we grew our core businesses' pretax income by 28% in 2011 to $342 million.
The Regional Bank's pretax income was up year-over-year benefiting from lower operating and credit-related expenses.
Over the past year our bankers focused on providing great service and deepening customer relationships.
We made outbound contact with existing and prospective commercial and retail customers more than 400 000 times in 2011.
Customer retention remains high.
We've increased our deposit market share and we grew our assets under management and our investment fee business First Tennessee Advisory Services.
The Regional Bank grew period end loans by 6% from last year largely offsetting runoff for the Non-Strategic portfolio.
C&amp;I growth was especially strong and the banking was up 11% from last year.
And despite the competitive environment yields on the Regional Bank's loans are holding up at 4% which is above the runoff portfolio yield.
At the same time the Regional Bank grew low-cost deposits by more than $600 million or 5% helping us maintain a stable consolidated net interest margin in 2011.
Turning to Capital Markets.
2011 results remain strong with fixed income average daily revenue at $1.3 million for the year.
Our unique business model allows us to successfully manage through periods of market volatility.
An exceptional sales and trading force extensive distribution network and low balance sheet usage results in Capital Markets being a strong contributor of fee income and providing consistently higher return on capital.
We also made headway in our 3-year efficiency initiatives.
We've implemented $112 million of our $139 million cost-saving actions.
Environmental costs were also lower in 2011 contributing to full year 2011's 4% drop in consolidated expenses.
We remain on track to reach our goal in reducing the level of expenses to approximately $1 billion by the end of 2013.
Credit quality continued to improve.
For full year 2010 to 2011 net charge-offs dropped 38% we decreased reserves by 42% and NPAs declined 38%.
We also reduced our Non-Strategic higher risk portfolio by $1.1 billion.
In 2012 we will continue to control what we can control.
We expect the operating environment to remain challenging as low interest rates persist and the economic recovery remains slow.
But we're well positioned to successfully deal with the challenges and expect to make further progress toward reaching our profitability goals.
With asset quality we anticipate continued favorable trends this year keeping provision below our bonefish targets.
However we are committed to maintaining a healthy loan loss reserve.
And environmental costs are likely to stay elevated until the industry issues are better resolved especially in housing and real estate.
It's more important than ever to tightly manage expenses.
And we will continue to reduce expenses in 2012 even as we continue to invest appropriately in technology and business developments.
I mentioned earlier we're on track to achieve our 3-year cost-cutting goals.
In a few minutes BJ will give you more information on where we currently stand and opportunities for further efficiency improvement.
Turning to capital.
We ended 2011 with a strong base providing us considerable flexibility to deploy capital in 2012.
We bought $44 million of stock in the fourth quarter and expect to continue to repurchase shares in a disciplined manner.
I'm pleased with the progress we made in 2011 towards achieving our bonefish targets and look forward to making additional headway in 2012.
BJ will now take you through the detailed financial review and I'll be back for some final comments.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 6.
For the fourth quarter net income available to common shareholders was $35 million relatively flat to last quarter.
Diluted EPS was at $0.13.
Significant items in the fourth quarter included an $8.3 million pretax expense from an increase in derivative liabilities related to the prior sales of Visa stock.
We had a $4 million positive impact to noninterest income that was related to a tax refund.
And we also had $5.9 million of benefit in tax expenses on the tax line from the resolution of an audit in statute expirations.
Turning to segment highlights on Slide 7.
Pretax income in the Regional Bank for the fourth quarter was $91 million compared to $94 million in the third.
Pretax pre-provisioned income was up 11% linked quarter.
The bank had a provision credit of $13 million compared to a credit of $23 million in third quarter of '11.
Net interest income was up strongly at 7% driven by higher loan volume.
Noninterest income declined 5% linked quarter.
And fourth quarter included the implementation of the Durbin Amendment which reduced fourth quarter's 2011 debit card fees by about $4 million.
However we were able to mitigate some of the lost revenue by actions such as modifying our checking account product and increasing other fees.
Linked quarter expenses declined 1% and were down year-over-year 7% driven by efficiency actions.
Capital Markets' pretax income was relatively flat at $27 million.
Average fixed income daily revenue was $1.3 million compared to $1.4 million in the third quarter.
Linked quarter expenses declined 14% from lower variable compensation and a decline in legal expense.
And looking ahead to 2012 fixed income revenue should continue to benefit from the interest rate economic environment.
We currently expect that average daily revenues will remain solidly within our $1 million to $1.5 million normalized range.
Pretax loss in the Corporate segment was $23 million this quarter.
Recall that in 3Q '11 we booked a $35 million securities gain from the sale of a portion of Visa shares.
Expenses in the Corporate segment were up due to the $8.3 million expense related to the Visa stock we previously sold.
Pretax loss in the Non-Strategic segment narrowed to $57 million due to lower loan loss provision and a decrease in mortgage repurchase cost.
Linked quarter loan loss provision declined by $32 million.
Third quarter included $31 million of provision associated with the sale of nonperforming loans.
Turning to net interest margin on Slide 8.
Our consolidated net interest margin was 3.23% flat to third quarter.
We were able to defend the margin by continuing to replace the lower yielding Non-Strategic loans with higher yielding loans in the Regional Bank.
And if you look at the chart on the lower right you'll see the strength of new loan spreads being booked in our Commercial segment versus the payoffs.
And to give you an idea in the last 12 months our new loan fundings commercial-wide were about $1.7 billion at a spread of 3.35% compared to loans paid off over the last 12 months of $1.3 billion with a spread of 2.61%.
So we feel very good about the changing mix we're seeing in the Regional Bank.
In the fourth quarter an increase from loans to mortgage companies and a decrease in the cost to deposits also positively impacted our margin.
Additionally the adverse impact from nonperformers declined to 4 basis points compared to 8 in the third quarter.
The lower reinvestment rate of securities portfolio somewhat offset these positives.
And throughout 2012 we expect that the margin will remain flat to down a few basis points a quarter assuming the low rate environment continues.
Turning to Slide 9.
Loan pipeline trends remain solid.
Borrowers do remain cautious but we've seen steady demand from areas such as corporate lending asset-based lending and income CRE.
Pricing in our markets remains competitive.
But loan yields in the bank are stable at 4.01% due to the excellent efforts of our bankers holding to disciplined pricing.
We've also seen growth in our loan portfolio.
Year-over-year period end loans in the Regional Bank were up 6% outperforming industry growth of 2% according to the latest Fed H8 data.
Over the next year we expect moderate loan growth given the solid trends in our pipeline.
While the runoff from the Non-Strategic portfolio will constrain total loan growth we expect ongoing positive shift in our business mix.
Turning to expenses on Slide 10.
We continue to make progress with lowering expenses.
Consolidated expenses declined 3% in the quarter.
Efficiency actions in the year included reducing personnel costs closing and consolidating branches renegotiating vendor contracts and proactively managing discretionary spending.
We're constantly reviewing our expense levels so we can become a more efficient organization.
Last year we identified $110 million in cost savings initially.
We increased that amount to $125 million.
And now we're at $139 million.
Out of our current planned cost saves we've executed $112 million that are in the run rate for the fourth quarter.
We've also decreased the targeted level of total expenses over time.
Our initial goal was to reduce the level of 2010 expenses by about 20%.
Now we're planning on 25% to 30% below the level of 2010 expenses meaning our goal is to have consolidated expenses down to approximately $1 billion by the end of 2013.
Pulling in [indiscernible] that we did not view efficiencies as a program with a finite end as circumstances or the environment dictates we will respond appropriately.
Moving on to mortgage repurchase on Slide 11.
Linked quarter mortgage repurchase provision expense decreased to $45 million from $53 million.
Net realized losses were $49 million and we decreased the repurchase reserve to $165 million in the fourth quarter.
Our operational pipeline declined 8% to $384 million from last quarter.
Total new requests declined 12% and resolutions were up 2%.
The rescission rate remained steady at 45% to 55%.
Sitting here today we continue to believe that we are on the back side of GSE-related requests.
We had no repurchase requests from first-lien private securitization.
Right now we have 4 lawsuits including the FHFA matter related to private securitizations that are in the early stages of litigation.
And we recently received requests from the FDIC and the Federal Home Loan Bank San Francisco requesting information regarding private securitizations.
At this time based on our private securitizations origination mix yield size and performance we continue to believe that the risk from private securitization should be significantly less than from the GSEs.
Turning to asset quality on Slide 12.
In the fourth quarter charge-offs were $75 million compared to third quarter of $106 million.
You'll recall the third quarter included $48 million of charge-offs related to loan sales.
Fourth quarter's charge-offs of $75 million included a $21 million loss from one bank-related relationship which had a TRUP and a bank holding company loan.
We were fully reserved for this charge-off.
While the lowest tiers borrowers remain stressed within the TRUPs and bank stock portfolio we have seen overall stabilization there.
Linked quarter we decreased reserves by $65 million to $384 million.
And our reserve to loan ratio was 2.34% in 4Q '11.
Over the next year assuming the economy continues to recover we expect continued favorable credit trends and reserve decrease but it's likely to be at a slower pace.
Turning to Slide 13 NPA trends.
We've lowered our nonperforming assets significantly over the past year.
Inflows are lower due to the runoff from the Non-Strategic portfolio and improved borrower performance.
We saw increased disposition activity from both bulk sales and single transactions in 2011.
Linked quarter NPAs declined 11% and were down 38% from last year.
Year-over-year our NPA ratio improved by 191 basis points to 2.57% in 4Q '11.
Wrapping up on Slide 14.
Our core businesses showed great progress in reaching our long-term bonefish targets with solid results in the Regional Bank and Capital Markets.
We're also controlling what we can control by lowering expenses and developing strategies to replace lost revenue.
Balance sheet trends are positive and net interest margin remained stable.
The Non-Strategic segment remains a drag on our consolidated results but we're working through the mortgage issues and we have made significant progress on mortgage repurchases.
We've built momentum in the Regional Bank and in our Capital Market business and expect continued strong performance from these businesses.
Now I'll turn it over to Bryan for some final comments.
Thank you BJ.
We made significant progress towards our strategic goals in 2011.
We improved our profitability in our core businesses.
We reduced expenses and we returned capital to shareholders with share buybacks.
Thanks to our employees we've accomplished a lot but we're not done yet.
We have more work ahead.
We've got a strong business plan in place and the right people dedicated to its successful execution.
As I said earlier 2012 will be another year of controlling what we can control.
Our goal is to consistently provide outstanding customer service.
Customer service that differentiates us from our competitors and drives better profitability and returns.
We're committed to becoming more efficient.
We will continue to manage the wind-down of our Non-Strategic assets and remain proactive with credit quality and we'll continue to manage capital smartly.
We're focused on the long-term sustainable profitability not short-term temporary gains.
To sum up I'm confident that 2012 will be another year of making progress toward our long-term bonefish goals.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll start -- on the buyback how should we think about the $44 million? Is this just a good run rate given where excess capital levels are? Or are you more opportunistic given the stock price? Steve it's BJ.
I'd say yes a little bit of both.
We wanted to be disciplined and opportunistic.
If you look at the VWAP of what we repurchased the shares at they were at $7.10 well below where we're at today.
If you look at our daily volumes we purchased more on down days and less on up days.
So I thought we did a pretty good job of remaining disciplined and I think that'll continue.
Research Division</strong> So BJ you're saying we should expect less buybacks with the stock price where it is today? No I don't think that's the case.
No I think we wanted to be measured and opportunistic about doing it over time.
And we had said that we would take a few quarters to complete the purchase.
So again if there's volatility in the stock price and in the markets we'll look to be opportunistic.
But we still believe share repurchases are compelling at the prices that they're at today as well.
Steve this is Bryan.
I'll add to BJ's comment.
There's a lot of mechanical things that impact the buyback blackout periods around earnings and year end and things like that and we announced it as you may recall in the third quarter call.
We still think that being able to acquire our stock at these valuations is still an attractive opportunity for us and we intend to execute on that.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just one separate question.
On the mortgage put-back expense I guess I'm trying to better understand why the net realized losses are still so high given the trends you're citing in the presentation on the pipeline rescission rates severity rates.
Shouldn't we start to see a more meaningful decline in losses given those trends? Steve it's BJ again.
I think what happens is when you have higher net realized losses that comes from higher resolutions.
And so I actually see this as a fairly good thing.
If you were to go back and look over the last 8 or 9 quarters you'd see lower charge-offs but us building provision in excess of charge-offs.
But once you're getting towards where you're realizing the losses then you're seeing stabilization in the reserve and even bringing the reserve down.
So I actually see it as a fairly good thing that you're seeing net realized losses at elevated levels just means that we're working through more of the book and you can see that in the pipeline declines as well.
So that's why we say that we feel like we're well on the back end of this thing and should see further improvement.
Our next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Along the buyback lines can you talk about where your targeted payout ratio combined payouts of dividend as well as the buyback would be for 2012 under your current capital plan? John this is Bryan.
To put it in context we've announced the $100 million buyback.
And so at this point what we've got approved in terms of board authorization et cetera is remaining I guess the $56 million remaining on that authorization.
We'll work with the regulators at the appropriate time in the appropriate way to go back and revisit authorization.
We'll learn a lot as we come out of this stress test process that the largest $50 billion and greater institutions are going through now.
We'll learn a lot more.
My hope is that we can follow this up with an opportunity to continue to repatriate capital to our shareholders.
We think our capital base is very very strong that given the dynamics of an economy that is not producing significant loan growth per se that the balance sheet growth with modest loan growth environment offset by runoff in the national portfolios is not likely to grow very significantly.
So we think we've got the opportunity and the ability to maintain strong capital ratios and repatriate a tremendous amount of capital to our shareholders over the course of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then separately can you give a bit more color on your margin expectations going forward just given that the deposit cost reduction helped you in the quarter this quarter? But I just wanted to see how much more room you may see there and how that impacts your margin outlook.
Sure John.
It's BJ.
I think we're pretty pleased with how we're defending the margin flat this year really flat across all of 2011.
We think it's a pretty good accomplishment.
The headwinds that we have are certainly -- the rate environment the reinvestment rate on the securities portfolio so those are going to continue to be difficult.
But the positives are the shifting business mix in the Regional Bank that I talked about how we're replacing business with business running off at higher spreads.
So that's helpful to us and we expect that to continue.
We do see further opportunity in bringing down deposit rates over time.
In the extended low rate environment that's simply something that we'll have to do.
So we're looking at ways to do that and we do see opportunity there as well.
But in general I see across 2012 our margin being stable to maybe down a basis point or 2 every quarter but holding up pretty well over time.
John this is Bryan.
I'll add to what BJ said because he was really amplifying the point I made in response to the first part of your question.
The runoff of these Non-Strategic portfolios are at significantly tighter margins than the loans were booking in the core franchise and banking business today and so our balance sheet can remain relatively stable.
And our profitability we believe can go up as a result of that because we're replacing these and are changing our business mix replacing it in a way that makes us more profitable over time.
Our next question comes from Bob Patten of Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> BJ could you just refresh us on the expense numbers? And what is the core expense base? What's the environmental expense base? What's the growth rate on core that ends up at the $1 billion number by the end of 2013? Yes Bob.
Let's hear what I'm talking.
But really when we think about the core expense base we think about Regional Banking Corporate and our Capital Markets businesses.
And so if you look at Regional Bank our expense base there for 2011 is $565 million Capital Markets $320 million.
And our Corporate segment is about $105 million.
So those 3 combined are kind of what we see as core Non-Strategic expenses or about $300 million.
So what we would expect over time is that that $300 million decline substantially probably doesn't all go away over the next 3 years but a majority of it goes away.
And then of the other 3 components that I just talked about that's where we see the $139 million of efficiencies coming out.
So that kind of adds up to about well from 2010 levels about $350 million-plus of expenses coming out of the organization from 2010 to 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just what's your anticipated growth rate of say for example Regional Bank core a couple of percent a year or is that $139 million the net number? So you're going to hold everything flat and still get $139 million out by the time you're at 2013? That's correct yes.
So the $139 million is not a gross number.
That's a net number that we're taking out of the organization.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerbe.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the NIM guidance obviously we talked about deposit clients looks like some of thats being helped by loan growth.
What is -- if you were to I guess pick the single biggest area where you could be wrong right in terms of net where might you be more likely be surprised if NIM ends up coming down faster than you expected? Like where's kind of the softest area so to speak? I think reinvestment rates on the securities portfolio are difficult will continue to be difficult.
And if we see some kind of QE3 [ph] and long rates have moved lower that could impact us as well.
So that's one place that we watch.
But really I feel pretty confident about the other pieces and components of our margin whether it's continued improvement in NPA and less drag there continued pricing discipline from the Regional Bank continued reduction in our Non-Strategic portfolio that will improve the NIM.
So I actually feel pretty good about the guidance that we talked about in 2012 for the NIM.
Ken this is Bryan.
I'll add to BJ's comments if I may.
Just to prove we worry about different stuff sometimes I worry about the competitive environment that we've talked about that I've talked about a lot.
Ive described it as late cycle behaviors.
And I think given this low rate operating environment what we've seen in terms of -- in the marketplace and in pockets not universally but in pockets pressure on spreads on loans I worry that that could be an area of risk not only for us but for the industry as a whole.
There's a lot of competition for what is otherwise very modest new loan opportunities for the industry.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then -- and so just going back to BJ's comment about the security reinvestment.
In your sort of guidance of modest pressure is there any -- on your part is there any expectation for increases in any of the rates? Meaning like would you expect to get security reinvestment at a higher rate than what you're getting today or is it flat to down in your guidance? Flat to down.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Kevin Barker filling in for Paul Miller.
Just wanted to talk about the 4 lawsuits you have out there related to private securitization.
You said the FDIC asking for information and the Fed Bank of San Francisco.
Is there any way you can put numbers around what the size of the originations they're looking at and what the default rates are with that block of originations? Kevin are you talking about the 2 requests for information we got or the 4 existing lawsuits about? Research Division</strong> The 4 existing.
The 4 existing I think we had...
Its in our Q.
It's in our Q and there's...
$0.2 billion for 3 lawsuits and then the FHFA is -- the original balances are $874 million.
The UPB is about $400 million.
We actually have a detailed sheet in the appendix to the financial supplement or the slides that we put out this morning that gives the performance there.
Yes Kevin it's Slide 27 in the earnings set.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then you had repurchase claims go up in 2007 vintages.
And we're seeing that across most banks this quarter.
Is this something where it's -- Fannie and Freddie are really ramping up looking at the 2007 year? Or is it something where you're seeing just broad-based reps and warrants where theyre looking at all originations? Can you give us some color around where specifically what years and what levels they're looking at these originations? Sure.
I think that sands have been shifting here over the last several quarters in terms of what we've seen.
The GSEs will not tell you directly where they are in their processes.
But generally a few quarters ago we would have thought that they were going a little more methodically through the vintages.
And now we see them kind of recycling back.
And we are seeing higher requests coming from the '07 vintages and even a little bit more in the '06.
So it does seem like they're going back.
They are also seemingly getting more technical in their put-back requests.
And so we're continuing to work through that and fight that.
But again we've seen quite a bit and been very proactive on how we've managed these requests.
So we're not worried about this.
We continue to see it as an unfortunate headwind but we again think we're on the back end of it.
Research Division</strong> Do you see lower rescission rates for put-backs that are technical in nature rather than for cause? No not really.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on loan growth within the Regional Bank.
We back out -- if you were to back out the growth related to just mortgage or alliance to mortgage companies.
Growth just kind of in the core commercial portfolio kind of flat.
Are you guys starting to see a turn in trends in your footprint or anything that would lead you to believe that we see that pick up in 2012? Emlen this is Bryan.
The pipelines have remained pretty strong and pretty steady throughout the year.
There's not a whole lot of change from what the pipelines would have looked like 90 days ago at the end of the year.
So it seems to be rather steady.
Utilization is still a problem.
We originate a lot more than people draw.
But it just seems to be steady.
We're not seeing a big inflection.
The way you set up the question clearly we had some solid growth in the mortgage warehouse line and that's a very attractive business to us.
It does tend to be more volatile but I wouldn't take it out or discount it too much.
It is good steady profitable business for us.
Emlen this is Greg.
If I could add that our consumer portfolio grew $100 million quarter-over-quarter as well so we've seen some good activity there in our installment loans secured by real estate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay and going back a few quarters you guys have talked about starting to see some opportunities within CRE and just picking up some loans that may be dislocated from other lending sources.
I mean are those opportunities still out there? Has that business gotten more competitive? Yes to both.
It's still out there and it's gotten more competitive.
More people are getting into it.
And we're still seeing a lot of very good opportunities.
We've got good pipelines and good activity flow there.
But the thing that just started to occur really I guess 6 months or so ago Greg we started to see the permanent markets open up more.
And so more stuff is moving out earlier than we've seen in the last couple of years in the permanent market.
That's right.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bryan and BJ I had a question I wanted to deal with on the reserve release generated about $65 million worth of earnings this quarter.
That's about $0.16.
So if you kind of back that out overall earnings would still be at about the breakeven standpoint.
When you're looking at a 2.34% loan-to-allowance ratio my question is do you think you would move into the 2%? Could you break the 2% barrier and move more towards 1.5%? Where do you think we stop off on that ratio? Marty it's BJ.
I think what we see is continued credit quality improvement which translates to improved charge-offs and continued declines in charge-offs.
And we continue to see reserve releases into 2012.
But you'll see reserve releases at a slower pace than what you would have seen last year or the year before.
So we still see the provision line at or below what we would consider normalized bonefish which would be 50 basis points of charge-offs on loans or roughly with our balance sheet today $20 million $25 million a quarter or something like that.
So we still see it lower through 2012 but driven more by lower charge-offs and less by reserve decreases.
So all of that to say yes we see it slowing down by the end of this year more towards 2%.
And we'll have to see whether it goes below that or not.
But we are committed to keeping very adequate reserve levels in an environment that continues to remain uncertain.
Marty this is Bryan.
Not to sound defensive about it but I will take a little bit of exception to the premise of the question.
You take the example BJ described where we had the community bank loan TRUP and a loan that we took a 100% loss on.
We took -- we hadn't fully reserved.
And so I guess the basic point is those reserves when we set them up in the past didn't get added back to earnings so you would expect when we charge off 100% that those reserves ought to be released and they come down.
And to accentuate BJ's point we did provide $10 million in the quarter which is essentially 25 basis points which is really pretty darn close to the bottom of our range in terms of bonefish targets around expected losses.
So I would not agree with the premise that it's essentially a breakeven quarter if you add -- if you take charge-offs and reserve release I think that's the wrong way to look at it.
When you got loans fully reserved and you take the losses you're going to have that situation arise.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes and I would agree with that.
What I was trying to get at was how much farther can you go down because if at 2% that gives you about $64 million of incremental reserve release to get next year and $75 million worth of charge-offs then that becomes the other piece that has to start to improve so you need to see the $75 million go down -- cut in half -- to really start to make a meaningful difference and the reserve release going away.
So you're exactly right these are pre-reserved and the release of the allowances are very appropriate at this point.
That's right.
Marty the $75 million again includes that $21 million of -- which is one related credit bank-related credit.
So if you take that out I mean you can see a very steady march downward in our net charge-off numbers and we expect that to continue.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the other piece of the puzzle is really the Non-Strategic losses that go away as well.
So in a way I was looking at it is you had that negative and you had the charge-off negatives.
So those are the 2 sources that would be available to offset that $65 million benefit you had this quarter.
Yes I think that's right.
This is why we are trying to manage the company for profitability and returns and looking at all the key drivers of the bonefish.
I mean it's a very difficult operating environment.
And sometimes you have certain levers that you can pull when others aren't yet available.
So as we continue to chop wood on reducing our expenses which we continue to manage in unprecedented low rate environment that hurts our efficiency ratio we are getting the benefit from being proactive on credit actions that provides us now for now our tailwind in provision.
So all of these pieces go together to long-term move that's more towards good profitably targets within those key driver buckets that we want to be in.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And I was just interested in the transition more than anything else of how you saw that happening over the next couple of quarters so I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple quick questions that remain.
One on the Capital Markets revenues that's been fairly lumpy over the last number of quarters and I think your comments were you expect that to still remain at strong levels.
But kind of coming out from this quarter you expect it to be relatively stable at the -- or does it still have room to decline? And then secondly if you could just comment a little bit on the -- you said those information requests that you got I believe you said from the FDIC and the Fed on the private securitizations.
What do you view coming out of that? Is that just -- I'm sure it's not going to be good if they're getting involved and what would possibly be coming out of that? This is Bryan.
I'll start and I'll let BJ take the second part of the question.
Capital Markets is inherently going to be affected by what happens with interest rates and how things unfold.
The year has started very much where 2012 -- excuse me 2011 left off so we feel good about the progress and what we're seeing in the early part of the first quarter.
The first quarter is impacted by the number of calendar days and things like that.
But in terms of average daily volume we're very very pleased with the volumes we've seen in the early part the first 2 or 3 weeks of the year.
And Kevin on the second.
The 2 requests for information that we got to be real honest we don't know a lot about them at this time.
But the first one on the Federal Home Loan Bank in San Francisco they've asked for loan information on 3 securitizations that we did.
And the FDIC asked for the offer of sale not loan information or documents on behalf of 45 failed banks.
So they're asking about 17 of our securitizations that some of these failed banks had purchased.
So again we don't know a ton about it yet but we'll -- that's what we know right now.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> But I would guess what that means is they're looking for a way to recoup losses that they've incurred on some of those failed banks I would assume.
Whether they're going to be able to prove that or not is another thing but...
Sure.
That's what you conclude.
The other thing I guess you would probably conclude is there's probably a smaller institution smaller portfolio smaller pieces.
So I'm not sure what it aggregates at this point but essentially looking for the perspectives or the securities offering documents at this point.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Can I just ask do you -- I know the thing we always end up with each quarter on the private side is that -- well there's not enough out there yet to estimate losses and to start building reserve.
What does need to happen? Do you have to see a certain number of requests? Or do these lawsuits have to sort of get to a certain point in terms of how the progress is going? How do you see that playing out? Yes Kevin remember on private there are 2 pieces right? It can come back to us as actual repurchase requests if the trustees are compelled by more than 25% of the investors et cetera or it can come through the courts in terms of lawsuits and litigation.
So theyre both a little bit different.
But on repurchase requests again we haven't seen any repurchase request so it's kind of hard to estimate anything there.
On lawsuits we're still very early in -- very early stages of all the lawsuits that we're currently named in.
So it will be very premature to say that anything was either estimable or probable.
Our next question comes from Chris Gamaitoni of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a housekeeping.
I'm looking at your noninterest-bearing deposits.
Core end balances were up nicely.
It was about 4.5%.
But if you look at the average balance I think they were up about 0.5%.
So could you give us what the difference was and why more came on at the end of the quarter? I can't give you much color other than that we usually do see some balance building at the end of the quarter particularly from municipalities or larger clients for the end of the year.
I don't think there's anything special in there Chris.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then on the capital markets if you could just give us the gives and take what positives could happen where your revenue maybe go back to the $120 million as a quarter and what would be the negative to reduce it from this level? Our Capital Markets business you really look at 2 things 2 things that can benefit it positively or negatively.
One is volatility.
So lack of volatility is not good and a lot of volatility is good for the business.
The second is level of rates and the direction of rates.
So rates going down is generally good for our Capital Markets business.
Rates going up is generally not good.
So what we see certainly in the first quarter and probably throughout 2012 is continued volatility from lots of things going on in this country and around the world as well as potential QE3 [ph].
And if that brings rates down that could be beneficial to our Capital Markets business as well.
So all of that to say we generally think that volatility will continue which is good.
And there's a little more potential today for lower rates which could also potentially be good for that business.
Our next question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bryan do you have any updated thoughts on M&amp;A at this point? I know you made some comments a couple months ago.
But is there any update there? Yes there's really not anything to add.
It still seems like a somewhat reasonably benign market in terms of opportunities.
I think youd ultimately fit it back into the way we're looking at capital and can we -- where do we produce the strongest returns whether it's in M&amp;A or stock buyback.
And we're going to be disciplined in the way we look at capital.
I guess my sense is if we see a pickup in 2012 it's probably more likely to be the latter half than the early half just simply because of the operating environment and relative valuations et cetera.
So there's really not a whole lot to add to what I've said in the past about it.
We just intend to be very disciplined in what we're doing and make sure that when we put capital to work that we do it in a way that creates value for shareholders.
And as we've commented a couple of times returning capital to shareholders through the buyback right now is the most effective vehicle in our view.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Given the mortgage issues I mean does that preclude you in any way from looking at whole bank deals? No no.
Our next question comes from Erika Penala of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if youd already addressed this as I hopped on late.
But you mentioned that you hope to learn a lot after the $50 billion-above banks get their stress test results back.
I was just wondering if they end up being capped at 50% to 60% total payout as the market is expecting that's not going to preclude you from continuing to pay out 100% of earnings in '12 like we saw this quarter? Or are we thinking about that optimistically? Erika this is Bryan.
I would say that there's still a fair amount of let's say black box or not knowing in where we sit today.
You're correct that we do want to see what comes out of the stress test and we'll learn from that.
As you know we've been through a very different process because we don't fall in to that systemically important category of institutions.
And so we don't think that as it stands today that necessarily the calendar and all those things work the same way.
So we think we have the ability to work with our regulators at the right time.
We'll figure out how any rules that may shake out of the CCAR test for the systemically important institutions will apply to us.
But right now it's not clear that that's something that applies to us or that it should.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And just as a follow-up question to that.
Other bank management teams under $50 billion assets sort of have a fear that they're using this as a template and could possibly roll this out to banks that are below $50 billion in assets.
Is it too much speculation to ask for your opinion on that at this point? Well I'll give you an opinion.
I guess pretty clear that banks over $10 billion are going to stress test and report that.
And it will be hard not to use this in some way shape or form as a template for that stress testing.
But I'm not sure it has -- that it takes on the same focus from the Fed.
I think it's more an individual institution exercise will be my guess.
We've been stress testing our balance sheet on multiple scenarios for a long time as part of our management processes.
And weve not been hesitant at any time to share that with our regulators either at the OCC or the Federal reserves.
So it's not particularly troubling to me that stress testing is a part of the supervisory process.
I think that's probably additive to the process.
Our next question comes from Dave Bishop of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the slide on Page 8 regarding the commercial loan spreads it looks like there's a little bit of a dive there and during the latter part of the quarter there.
Is that systematic of just the type of loans you were booking? Or did something happen within the marketplace that caused that late quarter decline? Yes I'm not sure.
You read too much into it.
I mean what weve showed you is monthly and you can see it more substantially on the paid-off loans how there's a little bit of volatility there.
But we do think that as Bryan talked about pricing is competitive.
And so we're going to keep our pricing discipline and our standards and make sure that we get paid for the risk that we take but there is pricing pressure that's occurring in the market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then more of a housekeeping item in terms of the other comprehensive income it looked like there was a negative mark-to-market adjustment close to $50 million on a net basis.
Any commentary in terms of what drove that decline? I'm sorry can you say that again Dave? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the AFS portfolio the other comprehensive income it looks like it took a negative adjustment about $50 million quarter-to-quarter.
Any sort of commentary? Yes.
I think most of that is related to pension.
Our final question comes from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'll keep this brief.
I just want to ask about I guess the interest level if any on potential FDIC acquisitions whether it be in the eastern side of the state or even in North Carolina if anything of size would be meaningful for you.
Chris this is Bryan.
This is sort of foreshadowed in the earlier question about capital and M&amp;A.
We're going to be disciplined and we certainly would be interested in FDIC-assisted or other transactions for that matter at the right levels and the ability to understand the risk we're taking put it on the balance sheet and create value.
So that's a long way of saying yes we'd be interested in looking at and participating in FDIC-assisted opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just for Greg real quick.
The TDRs that you disclosed in the footnotes are those separate from the NPAs those are distinct from the nonperformers? I'm sorry could you...
Are TDRs separate and distinct from nonperformers? They are.
I don't know the exact disclosure but they are inclusive.
So TDRs are in some of the nonperformers so you got nonperforming TDRs and TDRs that are continuing to be troubled debt but are performing.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Bryan Jordan for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining the call this morning.
We appreciate your interest in First Horizon.
Please let us know if you have any follow-up questions and I hope you all have a great weekend.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will turn the conference over to your host Aarti Bowman of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly report.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Greg Jardine will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
We're off to a solid start in 2012.
First quarter results on the surface look a bit mixed but our core businesses performed well.
The pretax pre-provision income increased 21% and pretax income was up 12% year-over-year.
Our asset quality continued to improve.
In the first quarter we bought back $44 million of our common stock leaving $11 million under our initial $100 million share buyback program.
Earlier this week our board approved an increase of $100 million to our share repurchase program.
I'm pleased with the strength in our core business.
Regional bank's net interest income was up 9% from a year ago driven by higher loan volume.
Capital markets' revenues increased 18% year-over-year benefiting from strong fixed income activity from both depository and non-depository clients.
Our capital markets segment continues to be a significant contributor to the income with a higher return on capital.
Our ongoing efforts to optimize our business mix paid off.
We grew our regional bank loan portfolio while the non-strategic loans continue to roll off.
The banks increased period-end loans by about $1 billion or 10% year-over-year driven by lending in C&amp;I commercial real estate and corporate borrowers.
Our loan pipeline remains solid and slightly up at the end of the first quarter.
Loan pricing was relatively stable despite aggressive competition in our markets.
Our bankers' disciplined pricing allowed us to hold the consolidated average loan yield relatively flat at 408 basis points.
In the non-strategic portfolio loans declined $1 billion from first quarter 2011 and were $189 million below the year-end level.
We also continue to improve our funding mix.
Average core deposits in the regional bank increased 12% from last year and were up 4% from fourth quarter.
The decline in our net interest margin was largely due to excess cash balances.
BJ will go into more detail of the margin in a few minutes.
Turning to expenses.
First quarter's consolidated expenses were up 3% year-over-year due to capital markets' increase in variable compensation as well as higher personnel and mortgage repurchase costs.
Our productivity and efficiency efforts remain on track.
We've implemented $116 million of annual savings out of our targeted $139 million.
While total revenues in the bank increased 3% compared to the first quarter of 2011 annualized revenue per FTE improved 13% to $261 000 from a year ago.
We're continuing to invest in systems and technology.
We want to make it easy for customers to do business with us by simplifying our processes and offering innovative solutions.
And we're also driving long-term efficiency.
With consolidated expenses we are firmly committed to reducing annualized level to about $1 billion by year-end 2013.
We feel good about our expense control efforts.
Moving onto asset quality trends which remain favorable.
Year-over-year net charge-offs dropped 40% while nonperforming assets were down 36%.
Reserves continue to decline ending the quarter at 2.17% of loans outstanding.
We're seeing stable to improving trends across all of our loan portfolios.
To sum up we're seeing signs of improvement in the economy but we expect the recovery to be slow interest rates to stay low and regulatory challenges to persist.
In this environment we will keep controlling what we can control.
Our bankers are focused on making profitable loans to optimize returns earning more business from existing customers and taking market share by providing excellent and convenient service.
We're working hard to lower our expenses to become more productive and we're returning capital to our shareholders with buybacks.
I'll be back for some closing comments but now BJ will take you through the detailed financial results.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 5.
For the first quarter net income available to common shareholders was $31 million diluted EPS number of $0.12.
Taxes were $11 million in 1Q '12 reflecting an effective tax rate of 23%.
Within that there were tax credits -- current tax credits of about $6 million.
Linked quarter total revenue rose 4% and expenses were up 3%.
Turning to Slide 6 on segment highlights.
Regional bank's pretax income was $75 million in 1Q '12 down $16 million from the fourth quarter but up $10 million or 14% versus 1Q '11.
Provision in the bank was a credit of $7 million compared to a credit of $13 million in the fourth quarter.
Linked quarter net interest income declined 2% from lower loan balances in a day count variance.
Fee income was down 7% due to seasonal declines in NSF fees.
Also you remember that the fourth quarter included a $2 million Visa incentive fee.
We're working hard to negate lost revenue from the regulatory changes related to Reg E in the Durbin Amendment.
So far we've been able to offset about 80% of this lost revenue through various initiatives.
Regional bank's 2% linked quarter increase in expenses is primarily related to elevated hedging costs and seasonally higher personnel expense.
Turning to capital markets.
We were very pleased with continued strong results at FTN.
Our capital markets' pretax income was $32 million up 5% linked quarter and up 45% year-over-year.
Linked quarter total revenue increased nearly $19 million while expenses were up $14 million due to higher variable comp and payroll taxes.
Fixed income average total revenues were $1.6 million compared to fourth quarter's $1.3 million.
First quarter's fixed income ADR levels were above our normalized range of $1 million to $1.5 million.
Following the Fed's reaffirmation of an extended low rate environment we saw spreads tighten and saw our customers deploy excess liquidity resulting in increased fixed income buying activity.
We saw strong performance across the board on all of our debts and all of our customer types.
Looking ahead we expect ADR to be more on our normalized range over the course of the rest of 2012.
In our corporate segment we had a pretax loss of $18 million compared to a loss of $23 million in the fourth quarter.
Our expenses there declined 23% linked quarter.
And as you recall in 4Q '11 we had an $8 million expense related to the Visa stock we had previously sold.
Our pretax loss in the non-strategic segment narrowed to $44 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $57 million in the fourth.
Revenues were $51 million versus $46 million in the fourth quarter.
The increase was primarily due to higher hedging results and an increase in servicing fees.
Non-strategic expenses were relatively flat linked quarter with a reduction in other costs offsetting incremental mortgage repurchase costs.
Turning to Slide 7 take a look at the balance sheet and margin trends.
Our consolidated average total assets were about 25 days.
Our consolidated average loans decreased slightly both linked quarter and year-over-year while average core deposits were up 3% and 7% respectively.
Consolidated net interest margin was weaker than expected at 3.12% compared to 3.23% in 4Q.
Our core net interest margin was at 3.42% in 1Q '12.
The decline in our margin was notably driven by excess cash on our balance sheet due to large inflow of customer deposits in the quarter and a decline in interest collected on nonaccruals in our 4 years into this low interest rate cycle and it continued to pressure yields in our consumer loan in our securities portfolio.
Margin decline was somewhat mitigated by stable commercial loan yields and lower deposit costs.
Our core deposit costs in the bank were 47 basis points down 4 basis points from the last quarter.
And we're continuing to book new loans in the regional bank's commercial portfolio at a higher spread than loans that are paying off.
As you know seasonal factors do cause volatility in the margin.
But sitting here today we expect that the net interest margin could continue to float down modestly over the course of the year.
Moving on to Slide 8.
You can see our bankers' efforts to stick to disciplined pricing has resulted in commercial loan pricing holding up pretty well but we're seeing competition in our markets in both pricing and structure.
Regional bank CRE loans declined 2% linked quarter driven mostly by lower balances and lower end loans to mortgage companies and payoffs.
Core C&amp;I loans were up 2% and commercial loan commitments increased more than $200 million linked quarter.
You can see our loan pipeline remains solid.
Areas of loan demand include: commercial real estate and corporate and industry such as health care manufacturing and certain sectors within our asset-based lending group.
We expect that net loans on a consolidated balance sheet will likely remain flat to down for the remainder of the year as customers remain cautious on borrowing and continue to de-lever in this somewhat uneven economic recovery.
Turning to Slide 9.
Looking at our productivity and efficiency initiative.
As Bryan said we believe we're on track with our initiatives and remain committed to our goal of lowering consolidated expenses.
In the first quarter the progress that we're making was more than offset by a $26 million linked quarter update -- uptick in personnel-related costs which were inflated by capital markets' variable compensation.
Otherwise costs were mostly flat to down.
We were particularly focused on improving productivity in the regional bank and are pleased with our progress.
Year-over-year regional bank expenses declined 6%.
And as you see on the slide if you step back and look at our progress by a comparison to 2 years ago in our banking and corporate segments you can see the significant progress achieved on our efficiency efforts.
Moving onto mortgage repurchase on Slide 10.
Our operational pipeline fell to $380 million in the first quarter.
Our mortgage repurchase provision remained elevated at $49 million up from $45 million in the fourth.
Net realized losses increased slightly from last quarter to $53 million.
Resolutions were up 4% and our reserve declined to $151 million.
Linked quarter we saw new GSE requests increased by $56 million due to spending recycling through older vintages.
We're also receiving a higher number of requests from Freddie quarter-to-quarter.
The GSE requests have shifted to an increased level of make-wholes reflecting more requests for loss reimbursement on liquidations after foreclosure versus repurchase requests for delinquent loans.
For the remainder of 2012 we don't see it clearly and to expect quarterly mortgage repurchase provision expense to decline.
But sitting here today we continue to believe that we're on the back side of these requests due to losses we've already experienced and the sale of our mortgage platform in 2008.
We continue to be involved in various law states [ph] related to private securitizations that are in the early stages of litigation.
And we've also recently received indemnification requests from purchasers that we sold whole loans to that were then securitized by others.
Again we're in the very beginning stages of evaluating measures for us.
We had no repurchase requests from our own branded first-lien private securitization.
And at this time based on our private securitization origination mix yield size and performance we continue to believe that the risks from these private securitizations should be significantly less than what we've seen with the GSE.
Turning to Slide 11 on asset quality trends which continue to be very positive.
Our first quarter asset quality trends were favorable again with loan loss provision at $8 million.
Charge-offs declined $29 million linked quarter with a $46 million which included a benefit of about $3.5 million from a large recovery on a single credit.
You recall that our fourth quarter's charge-offs included a $21 million loss on one bank-related relationship.
Our commercial and consumer credit trends both remain stable.
Our aggregate risk profile and commercial portfolio improved resulting in upgrades in the C&amp;I portfolio.
In the home equity portfolio we saw lower delinquencies and improved lower rates with decreased reserves from the consumer portfolio by $18 million from last quarter.
Our total loan loss reserve to loans ratio ended the quarter at 217 basis points compared to 234 basis points at year end.
Over the remainder of the year assuming the economy continues to recover we do expect continued favorable credit trends and reserve decrease but likely at a slower pace.
Quickly moving to Slide 12.
Linked quarter our nonperforming assets were slightly up about 1%.
An increase was driven by regulatory guidance received in the first quarter where we re-classified about $28 million of second liens where we know the first lien was 90 days left delinquent.
This request did not impact the reserve.
NPLs were stable.
And ORE balances declined through continued disposition activity.
Wrapping up on Slide 13.
In our bonefish we've seen good progress in our core businesses.
Our regional bank trends remain solid as we grew higher steady loans year-over-year.
We're mitigating loss fee revenue from regulatory changes and improved annual efficiency.
Our capital markets had another strong quarter.
The non-strategic loan portfolio continues to wind down.
Now we're defending the margin as it remains a challenging environment to do so.
By controlling what we can control and being disciplined in our execution we do believe we're still on track to deliver high levels of returns and profitability over the long term.
With that I'll turn it back to Bryan.
Thank you BJ.
Thanks to the hard work of our employees first quarter marked another step toward achieving our long-term bonefish goals.
We've demonstrated continued profitability in our core businesses.
Our efficiency initiatives are on track and we're continuing to return capital to our shareholders with our ongoing share buybacks.
For the remainder of 2012 as BJ said we will continue to control what we can control.
We will focus on providing superior customer service that differentiates us from our competitors.
We're committed to becoming more patient and productive through simplified processes and better technology.
We will continue to manage the wind down of our non-strategic assets and remain productive with credit quality -- proactive with credit quality and we'll continue to manage capital smart.
In conclusion I'm confident the continued successful execution of our strategic priorities is leading to higher profitability and improved return.
Thank you.
And operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Stephen Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start.
Bryan on the mortgage repurchase request are the GSEs continuing to recycle through these older vintages here into this current quarter or is that captured in the first quarter? And did BJ say he expects mortgage provision flattish this year? Yes Steve.
Based on -- it's really an incomplete benefit exactly what they're doing.
But BJ's comments were essentially what you described and it looks to us like they're going back through some older vintages.
We'll see more make-whole requests components which are indications that those are foreclosed loans somewhere in the dead file as opposed to current delinquencies.
And BJ's forward-looking comments sort of reflect I guess our frustration with knowing exactly where that is headed.
You saw some decline in requests in the middle part of 2008.
They spiked in the third -- excuse me in 2010.
You saw it start to slope up in 2010 third quarter -- or 2011 third quarter and that trend has continued at a little bit higher level than we would hope at this point.
It's -- our sense as we sit here today is that we'll continue to work through it.
We don't see the size of the risk increasing.
The overall drivers continue to work towards -- we think the resolution sooner rather than later of these claims simply because we're now 42 44 months from the last time we originated and sold.
We're continuing to see improvements in the overall fundamentals of housing in the U.S.
And delinquency trends continue to stabilize to improve on the whole.
So we don't think the overall risk is going.
We just think we're continuing to work through a sustained level of these repurchase requests.
The sooner we get to the end of it the better we think it is.
Research Division</strong> Bryan to get to the $1 billion target by the end of '13 do you essentially need all these costs to come off the P&amp;L by then? Well we need a fair amount of what we described as the environmental mortgage repurchases a significant part of that.
There are still some continued costs with ORE and foreclosures and default servicing and things of that nature.
But that would be a big step in that regard.
And if you take the level of expenses in the early part of this year and you start to adjust for some of these environmental costs you can see that we are making pretty good progress towards our $1 billion goal.
So we need a substantial portion of it to come off by the end of 2013.
As we sit here today we don't see any reason that they wouldn't drop over that time period.
Research Division</strong> And just finally on expenses.
BJ is a good run rate of expenses near term somewhere around $300 million? Yes I mean if you try to adjust some of these things that are hard to look at quarter-to-quarter because of volatility whether it's mortgage repurchase costs whether it's variable compensation from capital markets et cetera somewhere in that range between where we are today and that number is probably pretty good for the near term.
Your next question is from Brady Gailey of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bryan I was wondering at what stock price does it not make sense for you to repurchase your stock.
Well we're obviously sensitive to price.
And as we look at our current valuations and valuations relative to tangible book value we think that it's an attractive value at these levels.
And as we approach more medium valuation multiples we become more price-sensitive to it.
So I don't want to get in to try to say this price or that but I think we look at it in a range -- the stock we've repurchased to date we bought back at an average cost of 8 11 pre-commission 8 14 if you include the commission so at a discounted tangible book.
So we're going to be opportunistic.
We're going to pick our spot.
We're going to get the capital back in our shareholders' hands at attractive prices.
And we think that's a good use of the capital in today's environment.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the loan loss reserve could you or BJ just talk a little bit about what you think that will do in the rest of '12? I mean we've seen it come down a decent amount.
You're now close to 2%.
I'm guessing that release is going to slow.
If you could all just give some color on where the reserve goes from here.
Yes sure.
It's BJ.
So we ended the quarter at 217 basis points on reserve.
And yes you've heard us talk about our bonefish.
We think on a normalized level it is really more in the 1.50% [ph] to 2% range.
So yes what we talked about is we continue to see some reserve decrease because of improvement in our portfolios but likely at a slower pace.
So you can kind of extrapolate those data points I just gave you to kind of say what we're thinking about over time.
The next question is from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Bryan can you talk a little bit about the pace of the buyback now that you've upped the program and just looking out through the remainder of 2012 specifically? Can you talk about the pace of repurchases? Yes John we're not -- we try to -- we're not locked in to any particular pricing.
What we're trying to do is make sure that we use the capital smartly.
And as I said in the answer to the previous question we're going to be sensitive to price.
Now on a macro sense our capital ratios continue to remain very very strong.
Our Tier 1 common ended the quarter at 11.7% virtually unchanged with $88 million of stock bought back today.
Now we're going to look at using that buyback program to get significant capital back in our shareholders' hands over the course of the next 3 or 4 quarters a year or whatever it takes.
But we're going to be opportunistic.
We're going to be smart hopefully in the way we pick our prices and do it in a targeted fashion.
So we don't see a need for our capital ratios to grow.
We'd like to see them remain stable.
And if we can do that that's a really good start in our view.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us a little bit more color on the margin outlook? I know you expect some modest compression.
But just given that the runoff is accretive to your margin and that your loan yields overall also remained relatively stable that would bode for some support but you continue to expect some pressure here so can you give us a little more clarity there? It's BJ.
What we saw quarter-to-quarter was clearly a little disappointing.
But on the flip side a lot of it was driven by something that's a little more positive which is customer deposit inflows.
So a lot of that was just excess balances that we had at the Fed which hurts the margin but not necessarily NII.
But even with our bankers doing the right things on holding up loan yields reinvestment rates in the securities portfolio are very difficult.
They're down 1% to 2% range and it's hard to replace what's running off in that portfolio with what's coming on.
So there's a lot of dynamics in the margin.
And the longer this low interest-rate environment continues the harder it is for us to defend the margin.
So like you said there's positives from the non-strategic runoff but there's also headwinds from the securities portfolio and so on.
So we're doing everything we can to control the pricing that we have in the bank bringing our average deposit rate paid down.
And we think we'll be able to do that.
But in the interest of caution knowing that it's an uncertain environment we think that it could continue to put down modestly over the course of the year.
The next question is from Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about just the re-class of some of the junior liens and NPA? I guess you've indicated that the loans that you did move into NPA there were those that you knew had gone 90-day delinquent on the first.
Can you give us a sense I guess of what portion of those you guys are actually servicing kind of what's tipping you off that those are going to a 90-day bucket? Sure.
It's BJ.
As you know the new guidance issued by the Fed in the first quarter that required institutions to perform reviews over the allowance of loans primarily focused in audit [ph] loans where you had performing loans secured by junior liens but the first was delinquent or has been modified.
And it also talked about where institutions do not own or service the associated first lien which the bulk of ours fall in this category that you should use.
It's reasonably available tool to determine the payment status.
So for a significant majority of our seconds we don't have first-hand visibility in the payment status of those since we sold most of the servicing.
But as we went through our review there was about $27.5 million $28 million of our nearly $4 billion of second liens where we service it or own the associated first lien and that first lien was 90 days delinquent.
We do monitor refresh FICAs [ph] each quarter which is what we really use to evaluate these and those are obviously impacted by payment status of the first lien.
We review delinquency trends and negative equity positions among other things to detect deterioration.
So really all in all it had a $28 million impact on our NPLs but the issuance of the guidance didn't really have a material impact on our reserves.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And the other portion of the guidance too so that -- you may need to look at -- from the portion that you don't service you may need to look at kind of I guess broader industry metrics to get a sense of whether there needs to be some migration to NPA in that portfolio.
Have you put any thought into kind of what you need to look up there and what could be -- for the portion of the portfolio you don't service what could be the driver to kind of push things to NPA there? Yes so -- yes like I said use reasonably available tools the largest of which for us is refresh FICAs [ph].
So if you have a borrower where we have the second we don't know the first and they had a 7 20 FICA one quarter and a 6 20 FICA the next you might recently assume that something happened with the first.
So that's part of how we detect it.
We also look at negative equity positions if there's a significant change in the loan of value on our second that might also lead to something that we need to look at.
So that's really how we monitor it on our side.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick one.
And the make-whole purchases or larger portion of the repurchase requests are now for make-whole.
I mean you guys did indicate the losses stayed pretty pretty similar quarter-over-quarter.
But is there a potential change to severities as a result of the mix of new requests shifting that way? It's BJ again.
Not really.
What you've got if it's gone that long you've got accrued interest but they're going to ask for -- they're also going to ask for imputed interest which is after it actually goes to foreclosure and however long it takes they're going to ask for continued interest on that plus the loss severity on what they lost.
So there might a little bit more in terms of interest but it's not material.
To give you an idea of how the mix has changed 9 months ago maybe we would have seen 80% repurchase requests 20% make-wholes.
And today we're seeing around 50-50.
So that really does tell us that they're recycling back through the foreclosed loans and trying to put those back.
The next question is from Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is Kevin Barker on behalf of Paul Miller.
I just had a question about the personnel expense you noticed it's  come up about $26 million this quarter.
You know capital markets are trading about -- expenses came up about $19 million.
How should we look at the variable piece of the personnel expense going forward and what part would be fixed? Can you give an idea around that? Kevin do you mean the increase or...
Research Division</strong> But you're running about in between you're running about what 150 to 155 last year and you came up to  about 175 this quarter.
How should we look at like a run rate going forward if you normalize trading revenue? Yes.
So if you think about it quarter-to-quarter variable comp from FTN was maybe $9 million of the increase so that's probably 30% of the increase.
And in the first quarter what you're going to have is things like annual bonus payouts.
You're going to have resets of FICA and payroll tax-related items.
There is some deferred comp that goes on in the first quarter some true-ups there and we had an increase in pension.
So I'd say for the increase that we saw in the first quarter relative to the fourth I think 80% -- let's call it 80% 85% of it is more seasonal if you will or variable.
So one that will not go away for this quarter that will remain elevated throughout 2012 is our pension expense.
Pension expense quarter-to-quarter was about -- up about $6.5 million and that will continue to stay elevated throughout 2012.
We are closing our pension plan as of the end of this year.
And we do expect a material drop-off in the expenses going into 2013 but there is a bubble that will incur in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question concerning your provisions.
Do you have a specific reserve to loan ratio you're looking at? You're trying to target maybe 1.5% or at what point do you -- is there a certain target that you're looking at? Yes.
In our bonefish we assume in a normalized environment we would have about 50 basis points of annualized charge-offs in provision.
And for the reserve we would hold roughly 3x to 4x  that level at any given time so that's 150 to 200 so we figured 217.
So it means that we have room to go on reserve decrease but it's getting closer to our normalized targets.
The next question is from Chris Gamaitoni of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I look at Page 23 there's a $36 million -- it's for mortgage request outstanding there's a $36 million amount that's in non or other category.
Is that the loans that are related to the Citigroup transaction where USB has initiated a suit? Chris I apologize we couldn't hear you very well.
Could you repeat it? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
On Page 23 of the presentation when you break down the outstanding repurchase request by type there's a kind of other category that comprise of $36 million is that the balance where -- on which the USB acting as trustee suit is related? No those are -- the $36 million is really other non-repurchase requests.
So those are things like requests for research for...
Chris it's Aarti.
Those are non-repurchase requests meaning there's -- cash doesn't go out the door so for example maybe a document is missing its validable signature or something so it can be cured without cash.
That is what that represents.
Yes the bullet point right above it the $3 million of non-GSE whole loan-related claims is I think what you were looking for.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the -- like if I look at that USB lawsuit which you heard about it states that UPB of $36 million.
I'm just wondering did they request those and you turned them down or they just initiated a suit without speaking to you? Chris we've gone through everything and we can't find any evidence that they've made a request for us to repurchase those loans.
Those are home equity loans.
So we know what you know at this point which is they're about a 2-paragraph suit and so we're digging into it.
We don't have any detail on the reason for the request et cetera et cetera.
And we've got no evidence with them actually making the request at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then do you know the UPB on the balance where you've been asked to indemnify? We don't know that.
It hasn't been identified.
We don't have that.
And actually on that suit we haven't to my knowledge even been served with it.
The next question is from Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
I just wanted to clarify the outlook for loan balances.
I know last quarter was the first quarter in quite some time that we on a net basis went from negative linked quarter movement in loans to actually positive and then we went back to negative this quarter.
Was this more just a outsized reduction of the non-strategic or should we expect a return to positive sometime soon? Kevin this is Bryan.
There are a number of moving parts.
Clearly we saw a little pickup in the run-off particularly the national home equity portfolio.
But if you sort of go back to the fourth quarter we had strong year-end closing.
In the first quarter we thought we had very good closings.
Our commitments were actually up a couple hundred million dollars during the course of the quarter.
Our pipelines ended the quarter strong.
We feel good about that.
In fact the pipelines at the end of the quarter are strong as they've been at any point in the last year or so and even more confidence in our 90% confidence level.
So I don't know that I would let one trend one quarter indicate a trend one way or the other.
We are going to have continued runoff in the non-strategic portfolios which is a positive.
I think our bankers are doing a fantastic job.
And their call-in efforts I think they're doing a fantastic job in building long-term customer-oriented lending relationships.
I feel good about the spreads that we're able to achieve.
And back in -- I wouldn't take the first quarter and make a trend one way or the other but I feel really good about the progress our teams have in growing our balance sheet in a quality way for the long term.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other just follow-up.
On the GSE's focus on the older vintages and doing this make-whole purchases what does that tell you or suggest to you about where they are in the process? Is it a positive? Is it a negative that they're focusing on this in terms of the grand scheme of how it will all play out? Does it suggest that it's going to take longer it's going to go faster? Just wondering what your thoughts are on that.
It's BJ.
Honestly the direction of what we've seen from the GSE has changed so many times.
I don't believe that I can give you a good answer I could  believe.
We've seen movement from foreclosure to delinquency focus.
We've seen movement through the vintages and back re-cycled back to older vintages.
So it's hard to tell but I think what we believe is a couple of things.
We sold mortgage servicing as you know in August of '08.
The increases that we're seeing are what we saw a big uptick in the '07 vintages.
And if you think about that it's been 52 to 64 months since any of those loans were originated.
That's quite a long time.
And if you're going through a foreclosure you've also got to assume that they paid for a while too.
So there's a finite end to what we're going to have to deal with with the GSEs.
We do believe that we'll continue to be on the back end.
And so without having much knowledge of exactly what they're doing which we can't really ascertain from them.
In the interest of caution we just say we don't see a reason throughout the rest of 2012 for it to come down.
But we continue to see strong resolutions from our team.
Our operational pipeline continues to come down.
We're well reserved for it and we'll just keep working through it.
Kevin this is Bryan.
I'll add.
In a macro sense I commented earlier you don't see delinquencies.
And the housing market seems to be reaching more stabilization coupled with the fact that although we get a frustrating request here or there we don't see a significant change in the types of requests that the GSEs are making at this point.
So given that we don't think that the overall size of the risk is changing very significantly.
And as a result you might conclude that a more aggressive pace in terms of making a request is actually a good thing in terms of getting to the end.
But as BJ said it's hard to call given the limited flow of information that goes on a day-to-day basis.
And so on the abundance of caution I would suggest we're confident that we'll work through it that would be on earnings headwind.
But it's hard for us to sit here today and say we see a falling off in the next couple of quarters several quarters.
The next question is from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick asset quality question.
In terms of the regional banking portfolio in the C&amp;I portfolio specifically it looks like you saw visible increase in the 30-plus delinquencies.
It looks like that was -- that had more to do with what happened in the fourth quarter than the first quarter but just curious if there's anything going on in that portfolio that is showing some early stage weakness.
No no there's not.
That portfolio is fairly stable.
There was a one loan event that caused a big piece of that 30-day plus which was more of a strategy-related approach.
But that portfolio is fairly stable.
We continue to see improvement in our weighted average probability to default within that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a bigger picture question in terms of your cost targets could you explain again for us again how the compensation related to the capital markets revenues sort of ties into your cost targets? Is that included in that at all? Or is that -- how should we think about how that would be included? Matt it's BJ.
It's not really what we're focused on in terms of the core efficiencies that 139.
It's really related to regional banking expenses and corporate-related expenses.
We exclude the volatility as the variable comp...
Matt this is Bryan.
We basically assume that the normalized range of average daily revenue for capital markets.
And we considered a high-class problem to be outside of that on the high end and have higher comp expense.
Our next question is from Erika Penala of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Russell Gunther on for Erika.
Quick question you mentioned the pension expenses were up $6.5 million quarter-on-quarter.
Do you have the total amount those expenses were in 1Q? You know I have to look back Russell real quick.
Aarti's going to look real quick for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay let me -- I'll jump in in the meantime with just one other on the margin in terms of the bonefish target's of 3.50% [ph] to 4%.
Outside of writing rates is there anything else you can do in the meantime to help you hit that in a shorter order? I think rates are obviously our biggest help.
We're asset-sensitive we continue to be and the rising rates would certainly help us.
The things that we can control to do I think will help us on the margins modestly things like continuing to bring down deposit rates paid where we can improving NPL levels which means less nonaccrual and NIM drag from nonaccruals.
But things like the reinvestment rate on the securities portfolio is difficult to overcome even if you just reinvest in cash flows.
Yields on renewing loans so we're remaining disciplined on pricing.
You can see that yields are remaining relatively flat which actually is a great accomplishment but it means yields will remain relatively flat.
So it's hard to significantly move those up in a competitive environment that we see in lending.
So we continue to work on it.
We continue to focus a lot of our efforts on it but it's just a very challenging environment to work with.
Russell this is Bryan.
We put the bonefish out there with -- sort of serves as a road map.
But I think it's important to sort of focus on the left side of that which is sort of our end objective which is to draw or drive strong ROEs in the business.
And although we focus on the kind of margin we're putting on the balance sheet and  how it moves from quarter-to-quarter our primary focus is driving the higher returns on equity over the long term.
And so as we look at the margin on a short-term basis we're also very focused on the long-term nature of the business that we're putting on the balance sheet the types of relationships that we've had trying to make sure that we have a high-profitability relationship-oriented business that drives long-term shareholder returns through the bonefish but ultimately higher returns on equity.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I guess can we follow up on the pension expense? Yes.
The next question is from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bryan and BJ just curious if you can give us I guess a little more color beyond what you've already done about kind of margin at the regional bank level compared to the wholesale channels.
And can that perhaps behave differently and maybe better in subsequent quarters? Chris it's BJ.
It could.
Again I think in the bank we had somewhat of a high-class problem in that.
We actually felt very strong deposit flows.
And so as you can imagine in this environment unfortunately the credit for deposits if you will that our regional bank will see continues to come down.
So even though we've got strong customer relationships and bringing in to these deposits they're actually worth less to us.
And it's hard to deploy that and put it to work in anything besides Fed funds or investment portfolio.
So you may see continued pressure on the regional banking net interest margin because of that dynamic.
But again overall if you step back we're pretty pleased with what we're doing in serving customers depending on the margin in that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess just one clarification that was sort of back to last quarter disclosures on Page 24 on the private mortgage-backed securities the $11 billion UPB obtained that already has netted for what you had paid off last year and some of those wholes that were called in mid-'11.
That $11 billion is in those securitizations.
What the outstanding UPB is across all the securitizations that are active.
LLC Research Division</strong> Very good just want to clarify.
Great.
And Bryan just real quick with you.
From a standpoint of mergers is there anything seen like it's a possibility looking forward 12 18 months? Or is the capital used today sort of more reflective of a lack of external opportunities? Yes I think if you step back and you look at the little bit of pickup in activity in the early part of this year I think it is a little more encouraging about the opportunities that might develop as the course of the year goes by.
We continue to keep an eye on what's going on we continue to look at things from time to time but we intend to be very disciplined about it in returning capital to shareholders like we have at attractive prices is a perfectly good alternative with us.
We don't feel the need we have to do that but we see the right kind of opportunity we certainly would be willing and able to put it into an M&amp;A transaction given the right fundamentals around it.
Our next question is from Dave Bishop of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just curious given the increase of the pipeline as it heads in the quarter.
Overall for 2012 what are the overall expectations in terms of loan balances here? I mean there's going to be obviously some runoff on the non-strategic.
Do we see this balance as trending up maybe single digits relatively flat? Just curious in terms of any sort of outlook there.
Well yes.
Dave this is Bryan.
When I answered earlier I wouldn't draw a lot of trends.
I think given the continued runoff in the non-strategic which is a positive from our perspective the opportunities for growth in the bank and really if you go back to what we said about the economy with low interest rates and a relatively low economic growth we sort of look at it as maintaining the level of loans sort of in the neighborhood that they're in is where it's more likely to come out than not.
That doesn't mean we won't grow a little bit in one quarter and be down a little bit in another.
And as we evidenced in the first quarter we had strong mortgage banking warehouse lending in the fourth quarter that receded a little bit in the first quarter if rates tick down like they have early part in the quarter.
It may go up again.
So we're not trying to get real specific and say this is where the numbers are going to come out over the course of the year.
I'll take you back to the comment that I made earlier which is we're really focused on putting strong lending relationships and transactions on our balance sheet make sure we've got a strong customer-oriented balance sheet.
And I think our bankers are doing a fantastic job on that.
Some of the commitment growth that we saw in the first quarter we'll fund.
And we're continuing to work on pipelines and we'll continue that growth over the next several quarters in the core banks.
Year-over-year growth of about $1 billion in that portfolio is rather significant.
We feel good about the work that our teams have done.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call over to Bryan Jordan for any closing remarks.
Thanks Darren.
Thank you for joining our call.
We appreciate your interest.
Please let us know if you have any follow-up questions or anything that needs additional information.
I hope you all have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference call Ms.
Aarti Bowman.
You may begin ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly report.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Greg Jardine will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning and thank you for joining in our call.
Second quarter 2012 marked another period of successful executing our strategic plan.
We achieved solid performance in our core businesses.
Asset quality continued to improve and we purchased $37 million of our common stock leaving $74 million under our $200 million share buyback program.
Focus on our core businesses continue to pay off.
The regional banks pretax pre-provision net revenue increased 16% from the year ago level driven by 9% higher net interest income and modestly lower expenses.
In capital markets second quarter fixed income average daily revenues were $1.1 million within our expected range but down from last quarter's exceptionally high level due to more cautious buying behavior from our customers.
FTN Financial remains a major contributor to fee income and provides significant returns for us.
In the second quarter of 2012 FTN's return on assets was an annualized 2.1%.
Balance sheet trends were also positive in the second quarter.
We grew our Regional Bank loan portfolio while the non-strategic loans continue to run off improving our loan mix.
The bank increased average loans by about $1.1 billion or 10% year-over-year.
Although loan pricing and structure remain very competitive average consolidated loan yields were flat at 4.09%.
Average core deposits in the regional bank grew 13% year-over-year and were up 3% from last quarter benefiting our funding cost.
Consolidated net interest margin was 3.16% up from last quarter slight although slightly below a year ago.
Asset quality trends remain favorable.
Year-over-year net charge-offs declined 39% while nonperforming assets were down 38%.
In the second quarter consolidated loan loss provision was $15 million versus $1 million a year ago.
While credit trends continue to be favorable we're seeing the pace of improvement slow and we reserve for higher commercial and consumer loan balances in the bank.
We're still seeing stable to improving loan portfolio credit quality trends over the remainder of 2012.
Consolidated expenses were up from a year ago mostly driven by the $250 million addition to the mortgage repurchase reserve.
Our productivity efforts remain on track.
We saw a decline in other areas of second quarter expenses such as compensation occupancy and foreclosed real estate costs.
Since we are better able to estimate and reserve for projected losses from mortgage repurchases future environmental expenses should be lower helping drive our improvement in inefficiency.
In fact we now expect to achieve our annualized consolidated expense goal of approximately $1 billion by the end of 2012 a year ahead of our initial target.
In sum we're making progress and are firmly committed to the continued successful execution of our strategic plan.
The current environment dictates patience since lower interest rates in a sluggish economic recovery are likely to persist.
We're optimizing our business mix to well position First Horizon for when the economy gains momentum.
Right now we're focused on the successful execution of our strategic priorities.
We're in new relationships.
We're becoming more efficient.
We're disciplined in execution opportunities and we're focused on prudent capital deployment and achieving attractive long-term returns for our shareholders.
I'll be back for some closing comments.
But now BJ will walk you through the detailed financial results.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 5.
Our second quarter 2012 consolidated pretax income was a loss of $211 million which included our previously announced pretax charges of $272 million.
Those $272 million of charges resulted in an after-tax impact of about $168 million or roughly $0.67 per share.
The $250 million reflects an addition to the mortgage repurchase reserve and the other $22 million is for the litigation reserve.
Pretax income from our core businesses were $65 million.
And bottom line our net income available to shareholders was loss of $125 million and diluted EPS a loss of $0.50.
As Bryan mentioned we bought back $37 million of common stock in the quarter or roughly 4.5 million shares.
For our total buyback program to date we've purchased $126 million at $8.28 a share leaving $74 million still authorized to be repurchased under our program.
In terms of the consolidated balance sheet average total assets were $25 billion essentially flat to last quarter.
Average loans and core deposits were relatively stable as well.
Deposit rates declined by 3 basis points to 44 bps in 2Q '12 and were 20 basis points less than a year earlier.
As Bryan mentioned our consolidated net interest margin was 3.16% in the second quarter compared to 3.12% in the first.
Margin improved because of a reduction in our low yielding excess cash balances our commercial loans fees and lower deposit costs.
The new improvement was somewhat offset by lower reinvestment rates in the securities portfolio as expected.
While we may see variability in quarterly net interest margin we do currently forecast the consolidated net interest margin should be in the 3.10 to 3.15 range in the second half of 2012.
Turning to Slide 6 in the Regional Bank.
Linked quarter our CPNR in the Regional Bank was up 5% and 16% year-over-year.
Net interest income was up slightly linked quarter due to higher loan fees and increased loan balances with nice year-over-year growth of 9%.
Fee income was up 8% linked quarter from a seasonal rebound in NSF and cash management fees as well as increases in debit card trust and other income.
Pretax income in the bank was $65 million in 2Q '12 down $9 million from the first quarter.
That decrease was driven by higher but still modest loan loss provision of $5 million in the second quarter compared to a credit of $7 million in the first.
We're seeing continued positive great migration but as a slower pace of reserve decrease.
Expenses in the bank slightly increased linked quarter primarily due to technology investments that should result in more efficient processes going forward.
Turning to Slide 7 looking at the regional bank balance sheet trends linked quarter regional bank period end loans rose 3% driven by loans to mortgage companies corporate lending and consumer loans and up 10% year-over-year very solid performance.
While commercial loan yields declined slightly from last quarter our ongoing focus remains on making higher return quality loans.
Linked quarter spreads were stable and up year-over-year.
Our loan pipeline remains stable and commercial loan commitments increased by $100 million from last quarter.
Overall quality loan demand remains modest and considerable competition including pricing and structure pressures persist.
Average core deposits in the regional bank were up 3% last quarter and up 14% year-over-year.
The average rate paid on these deposits declined 3 basis points to 36 basis points and was down from 54 basis points in 2Q '11.
Turning to the next slide Slide 8.
Capital markets had another solid quarter with pretax income of $20 million.
Fixed income average daily revenues were $1.1 million within our normalized range of $1 million to $1.5 million.
The decline in ADR from first quarter to above average level of $1.6 million reflects more cautious customer activity due to the uncertainty about both the macroeconomic environment and the interest rate outlook.
Expenses declined 24% from last quarter due to lower variable compensation and looking ahead we anticipate ongoing variability with fixed income revenues.
We currently expect ADR to be in the lower half of our normalized range.
Income product mix includes agencies mortgages corporate munis and treasuries.
We continue to focus on further expanding our substantial distribution network by hiring talent and adding customer relationships.
For example you probably saw we recently added several experienced sales specialists and traders to our municipal bond group.
And additionally our capital mortgage group continues our long-standing position at the top underwriter of agency debt securities and for 5 consecutive years we have been the only non-primary dealer in the top 10.
Turning to Slide 9 talking about our expenses and productivity initiatives.
As Bryan mentioned we should roughly achieve our targeted $1 billion of annualized level of consolidated expenses by the end of 2012 a year ahead of our goal.
With the $250 million addition to our mortgage repurchase reserve we currently expect ongoing quarterly GSE-related repurchase provision to be 0 or very immaterial.
We're on track with our ongoing efficiency initiatives as well.
Core business expenses excluding last year's capital markets litigation charge are down 10% from last year.
Turning to Slide 10 and a little bit on the mortgage repurchase reserve.
As you know based on information we received from Fannie and extrapolated to Freddie late in the quarter we added $250 million to the repurchase reserve for an ending balance of $360 million.
We had no change in our estimate or expected trends since our previous 8-K announcement.
On Slide 11 you will see the second quarter repurchase trends.
Linked quarter our operational pipeline increased to $431 million driven by a higher number of GSE-related requests.
We did receive more repurchase request from Fannie which represented a backlog from prior quarters.
New requests were somewhat mitigated by a 6% linked quarter increase in our resolution and our cumulative rescission rates and loss severity continue to remain stable.
We had no repurchase requests from our first lien private securitization.
And at this time based on our private securitizations origination mix yields size and performance we continue to believe that the risk here from private securitization should be significantly less than what we've experienced with the GSE.
On Slide 12 asset quality trends.
Linked quarter our loan loss reserve declined 7% to $321 million.
The reserve to loan coverage stands at 1.98% a decline of 19 basis points from last quarter.
Net charge-offs decreased 14% reflecting continued improvement in our consumer portfolios.
As you can see on Slide 13 nonperforming assets declined 9% to $467 million from last quarter.
Inflows were stable and ORE balances declined through the continued disposition activity mostly through single transactions.
Wrapping up on Slide 14.
We managed our company as you know to achieve long-term funds and profitability targets following our bonefish model.
Core business trends are good and we've made significant headway and we're building non-strategic issues.
And even though we've made significant progress on our efficiency goal we are constantly looking at ways to cut costs and become more productive and we will continue to do so.
Looking at Slide 15 just a little bit on the potential impact for the recently announced NPR rules.
With the currently proposed Basel III capital rules we expect to the manage our capital ratios within our bonefish range.
And right now we expect the NPR impact to our 10.6% 2Q '12 Tier 1 common ration it would be about 240 basis points fully phased in but without any offsetting actions putting it at a pro forma estimated 8.2% spot rate today.
However assuming planned improvements and runoff actions we would expect the positive approximately 260-basis-point impact to the pro forma estimated 8.2% or a theoretical Tier 1 common ratio of over 10% under Basel III.
Now I'll turn back over to Bryan for some final comments.
Thank you BJ.
Second quarter 2012 demonstrated another quarter of successful execution.
We showed continued profitability in our core businesses.
Our efficiency initiatives are on track and we returned capital to our shareholders with our ongoing share buybacks.
For the second half of 2012 we'll continue to work towards achieving our bonefish goals.
We were focused on improving -- we were focused on providing superior customer service that differentiates us from our competitors.
We're committed to becoming more efficient and productive through simplified processes and better technology.
We will continue to prudently manage the wind down of our non-strategic assets.
With the addition to the mortgage repurchase reserve we've taken a big step towards removing this distraction and allowing us to focus more on our core businesses.
Our balance sheet continues to strengthen and we will proactively manage the mix and profitability of our portfolios in light of proposed changes to capital rules.
Finally we'll continue to manage capital smartly.
As I said earlier navigating through this operating environment will take patience.
This is a marathon not a sprint.
I'm confident that continued successful execution of our strategic priorities will lead to higher profitability and improved returns for the long term.
Thank you and now we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe we can start for the mortgage banking just a little bit.
Obviously big decline there given -- particularly in light to the strength that we've seen across the industry in mortgage banking.
Could you just go through the pieces a little bit? I'm just to understand what is sort of sustainable -- what were the big one-time items that I think you had mentioned an adjustment on contingency related to something the servicing that was the sold? Maybe a little more metrics on that would be helpful.
BJ.
Couple of different things.
Remember that we have very little mortgage origination income so when your going to see strength or not out in the marketplace we're not going to necessarily participate in that.
Where you will see it is increasing in our mortgage warehouse lending or loans to mortgage companies.
And that's what I talked about when we saw loan growth.
We saw very solid strength there.
The biggest piece of our mortgage banking fee income is really related to our MSR hedging results and how effectively we hedge.
And we had about $2 million of net positive results from hedging which was down from about $9 million in the first quarter.
The other thing that you mentioned was just a modest adjustment of  a couple of million dollars related to a bulk sale receivable that we have had.
So that's more of a onetime item.
But really the main driver for our mortgage banking income is always going to be the MSR hedge results.
And as I said they were down about $8 million linked quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
The other question I had was just on the mortgage repurchase.
I see you're talking about requests of $431 million.
Has anything changed? Or just -- or what has changed between the time you announced the $250 million reserve build to today? And in terms of what anything different anything better or worse than your expectations back then? No Ken.
It's BJ.
As I said in my comments we haven't seen any change in the trends or our estimates since we made the announcement.
And when we had the call after the announcement we talked about having very significant visibility and very detailed information from Fannie Mae which was extremely helpful.
And it wasn't just historical information or current information but it was expected future flow.
And so that really helps us understand what we're going to be seeing and that obviously means that our views are going to be pretty good over the near to medium term at least.
Our next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start in terms of the initial hit to Tier 1 from the proposed capital rules first should we think about the quarterly buyback still in somewhere $40 million $45 million range per quarter? Or does that need to slow right given the 240-basis-point hit? And then secondly are there any plans or options open to you to accelerate the runoff of the non-strategic right I guess that's where most of the RWA hit's coming from? Steven this is Bryan.
A couple of thoughts.
One we've got the $74 million $75 million remaining under authorization.
We don't think that these will have any significant impact on that and we expect to continue to be opportunistic but look for opportunities to repurchase stock.
I'd point out a couple of points about the proposed rules.
One they are proposed.
You got to put emphasis on that and there are some things in them that I think at least intuitively seem like they will change particularly around home -- some of the capital levels maybe around home equity.
Two I would say and BJ pointed out there are some opportunities for us to change the mix of the portfolio.
It's a long time between now and 2015 and even longer when they're fully phased in.
And as in the past we've adjusted our balance sheet to make sure one that we have capital efficiency and two that we have profitability driven by that.
So we will adjust appropriately to manage that.
So as BJ talked about and he gave a spot rate and then he gave a longer-term rate and we think more about where we will be at the end of 2014.
And that's sort of what we manage towards so we think more about 10-plus-percent Tier 1 rate in this pro forma rules or proposed rules.
And so we manage according to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Bryan one other question.
Looking at the bullet on Slide 25 that all private label deals will reach 5 years by the end of 2012.
I think it's actually next month.
Is it still the view that 5 years is the statute of limitations on private label and this risk should be behind you by 2013? Well yes.
BJ and I neither one are attorneys so we'll give you our interpretation of what we understand.
There are different rules around statutes of limitations and statutes of repose and don't ask me to define the differences between the 2.
And it varies by state.
As I understand it -- the federal rules are different from the states and the federal statutes have run and then the states will run at various times.
But we think the vast majority of it would occur by the end of that 5-year period based on our interpretation and our understanding of it.
So it's not only that.
But you go through 5 years of performance 5 years of history and if you look at the balances I think the balances outstanding on those private label securities are down to about $11 billion or so and round numbers from the original $35 million range.
So it's -- the passage of time and always we think is generally on our side.
Our balance sheet becomes stronger.
The exposure to these risks become smaller with the passage of time.
Our next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
It's actually Nick Karzon standing in for Craig this morning.
I guess just to start I noticed that TDRs look  like they increased about 11% quarter-over-quarter.
And I was wondering if there's a change in accounting here or what the driver was there? This is Greg Jardine.
They increased similar to last quarter driven by per mortgages primarily; and then secondarily we had an increase in commercial loans of about $10.5 million which was driven by a SNIT credit that was primarily by SNIT credit the TDR this last quarter.
So those where the primary drivers of the increase quarter-over-quarter.
And then I guess just looking at the compensation line I was wondering kind of in terms of the quarter-over-quarter decline what piece of that was related to a decline in variable comp productions versus kind of the payroll taxes running off from the first quarter? Nick it's BJ.
I'd say over half of it is probably related to the capital markets variable comp and the other half is the expected decline coming of the higher first quarter levels.
Our next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two unrelated questions.
I guess first on the expense management.
Obviously this is one of the things that you can control and it's been very good for several quarters.
As you think about making the $1 billion run rate target earlier how much further can cost come down? Is it trimming around the edges? Are there some structural changes that can still be made? This is Bryan.
That's -- we've -- we work a lot on expenses and I would tell you we don't ever stop working on it.
It's something that we think is part of the business and a business that's changing like the financial services industry is today we think there are additional opportunities for us to use technology to use process changes to use end-to-end looks at our business to gain efficiency.
We've -- we go back and forth internally about how do we continue look.
As I've talked in the past we're trying not to be goal oriented about it simply because if you set a goal you get to that goal you quit.
We think it's a continuous process.
But we do use goals to give people sort of an order of magnitude.
So that's a long way of getting around to say and we're towards that $1 billion target as BJ and I both said by the end of this year.
That doesn't mean we're stop on expenses.
We're going to continue to look for additional opportunities to become more productive and more efficient to use technology and process to improve service but doing in a more efficient way.
And that means that we continue to look at everything about the business day in day out to drive that efficiency.
Research Division</strong> And then separate just following up on the private label putbacks I mean correct me if I'm wrong but there is I mean a number of banks including you I don't think have put a ton of reserves aside for that versus the GSE.
As we think about the timing of the statute of limitations expirations and maybe getting some more clarity the next couple of quarters is that something that we could see reserve boost for the next couple or few quarters? It's BJ.
Well again we have -- we've not had any requests.
So it's kind of hard to build a reserve without actually any activity.
So we -- until we see some activity coming through it's kind of hard to build the reserve.
Now we do look at reserving through litigation and so as you know we have a lot -- 5 lawsuits outstanding that are related to mortgage.
And so as appropriate we will add the litigation reserve on those types of things but we watch it very closely but until we have any requests we can't really build reserves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry.
I think thought I was combining the putback requests and the litigation on the private labels side.
Can you remind us what the litigation reserves are now? Or at least how much you've put aside that you've disclosed? Well we increased the litigation reserve by $22 million as we an announced in the 8-K.
Research Division</strong> You've put some in there before I would assume that's right? We had some other modest amounts in the litigation reserve but that was a large increase to it.
Our next question comes from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
My first question was is on your plan to improve your Tier 1 common under Basel III.
I guess what size balance sheet is in your model when you're thinking about getting to $10.5 million by 2014 under Basel III.
It's BJ.
Yes a couple of things I'll expand on that Bryan talked about.
Number one the balance sheet we don't particularly expect to change materially but a couple little more color on what we think planned improvements would be.
Number one first and foremost is with the mortgage repurchase largely behind us in terms of an earnings drag we obviously have much higher amounts of retained earnings that we would expect over the next couple of years that would significantly add to the numerator.
On RWA obviously we have a big impact from residential real estate particularly in our non-strategic portfolio but as you've seen over the last several quarters and years that's running off anywhere from 15% to 20% a year.
So assuming that that continues to decline as expected and there's no reason to believe that it shouldn't as well as replacing that with better quality lower risk weighted assets in the regional bank will help materially.
Un-funded commitments our big issue for us and the industry and I think there's going to be structural ways for instance that we change the way that we do business with our clients on booking those.
And so we expect to reduce our RWA impacts on those types of things materially.
NPA reductions will continue to come down as our credit quality improves.
Our MSR is going to continue to run off so there are a lot of things that we've been studying and looking at to improve.
And so we're confident that by the end of 2014 -- so first quarter of 2015 when the RWA impacts start to layer in -- we'll be well prepared and having a very solid capital position on which to grow.
Erika this is Bryan.
You take something like the capital -- the proposed rules around the capitalization on residential real estate and what that means to mortgage lending and the home equity lending.
I don't think this is just a First Horizon question.
I think everybody's going to have to think very differently about how you use your balance sheet when it comes to residential real estate lending and/or the pricing of that product.
And so we're going to take this and process it.
We're already thinking as BJ said about how we take actions today and over the next several quarters to plan for 2015 and beyond.
We'll also think about the nature of the business we're putting on the balance sheet and how that impacts it.
And so I think we need to sort of let these rules settle down a little bit.
Let's see how it gets finalized.
I emphasized before the proposed the Fed and the OCC and FDIC are asking for comment on them.
I suspect they're going to get a lot of comment on them.
And they'll go back and I'm sure they'll evaluate that.
And I we'll get as final set of rule that we'll all know how to adopt to or adapt to over the next several quarters.
Our next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us some more detail on the driver of the impact -- the capital markets revenue this quarter? The decline in that revenue is greater than we had expected.
It's BJ.
Yes.
At this level what we're seeing in our business  out there is as rates continue to grind lower at -- its' just counterintuitive for our clients.
They expect that it's going to go up and so while there's not loan demand there's -- that means that there's still a lot of excess cash at the banks in which to invest.
But they're very hesitant to invest and go out on a curve very far so they're staying very short.
And frankly the difference between investing in a -- an insured bond and putting your money at the Fed overnight is not significant enough given the potential variability of or volatility in rates.
And so we're just seeing our clients continue to remain on the sideline until we have a little bit more resolution in what's going on in Europe a little bit more certainty about where the long rates are going to go et cetera.
So we feel good that once there's a little bit more clarity and there's buying we are very well positioned to take advantage of that.
But right now there's a lot of caution in our current businesses.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly Bryan I know you mentioned that you're remaining buybacks should not be impacted by the NPR on the Basel III rules but how about a longer-term buybacks? Any renewal of the program once that remaining amount is repurchased? Well John I would say as I've said in the past we'll take this one step at the time.
We've got this authorization to continue to work on.
We'll evaluate capital repatriation I'm sure later in the year early next year what -- and the mix of between dividend and stock buyback.
And we'll work with the regulators at the appropriate time to work through that conversation.
So it's pretty immature at this point to speculate.
But as I said earlier and when I was responding to Steve I mean we're thinking about our balance sheet and capital efficiency and all of these things coming together.
And we're thinking about where our capital ratios are targeted to be in 2014 2015.
BJ talked about our bonefish ranges on our own capital.
One point that I would make is we talked about an 8% to 9% Tier 1 common ratio.
Given the -- if the rules end up the way they're proposed today given the significant increase in risk weighting of assets I expect that range comes down and becomes lower over time.
So I would guess that range would be in the low 8% than much wider range of 8% and 9%.
So you have to put all that together and let a little bit is unfold and we'll evaluate it as we get into the latter part of the year.
PI believe we expect this will have strong generation of capital and the ability to repatriate capital to our shareholders.
Our next question comes from Josh Levin with Citi Group.
Research Division</strong> With regards to the potential exposure to the private label litigation you said you think the private label exposure should be significantly less than the GSE exposure.
It does look like there was an additional lawsuit filed based on what's in your slides.
Is also looks like you may have received claims from another underwriter.
I mean can you provide some additional color here? At the margin are you a bit more concerned about this issue than you were say last quarter? It's BJ.
The answer to your last question is no.
We continue to see lawsuit down the industry and we continue to see them here.
We continue to see activity on other whole loans which are loans that we sold to others who then ultimately put it into private securitization.
That's probably what you were referring to.
Again there aren't any request the were seeing on our branded securitization.
So nothing much has really changed there.
We continue to actively monitor it but like we said based on the mix of what we did and the size of our securitizations and the performance we continue to be comfortable there's going to be significantly less than what we saw with the GSE.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On an unrelated topic yesterday one of your peers said it was going to close up to 5% of its branches given how the difficult the environment is.
As you think about -- going forward we have low rate environment regulatory costs are -- is -- reducing your footprint and closing branches is that a possibility? Sure Josh.
this is Bryan.
Sure if you've looked back over last 2 or 3 years our branch totals declined from just under 200 branches to the mid-170 or so now.
We continue to look at the size of -- and nature of our branch footprint.
Our consumer behavior and the branches has changed over the last 5 years is likely to continue to change and decline over time as technology becomes more prevalent that they'll see the bank on your cellphone or the Internet.
And so we expect to continue to look at our branch footprint to look for opportunities to improve customer service.
But at the same time be realistic about customer visits to branches.
Not only for us but across the industry are dropping.
So it becomes -- it's an important part of the distribution system but it can be done in smaller or fewer branches over the long term.
So yes we have -- obviously we'll continue to look at that as an opportunity to reduce our cost structure and at the same time improve service.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> There's been a lot of questions about the mortgage putback issue but I just wanted to -- really want to verify here.
You've said there's no real change that has occurred since you preannounced the large charge and you've said we have a reserve that you think is it for the GSEs.
So should -- is it still a good assumption -- a reasonable assumption on our part that that repurchase provision line which has been ranging before this quarter from $40 million to above $50 million per quarter that that goes down to really an insignificant number when we model for coming quarters? It's BJ.
Yes.
We currently sit here today and expect it to be 0.
We think that we had fully reserved for what we can reasonably expect.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> So I guess BJ we shouldn't -- I guess the -- what we need to look at is when we see the quarter-to-quarter change in the requests change in the pipeline I guess it's a matter of if that come in line with your own model when you calculated that reserve.
And so far it is.
Is that correct? Yes.
That's a good question.
We'll continue to show that because we believe it's important for you all and certainly helpful for you all to understand the flows there.
But as I said on the call that we had around the 8-K and earlier we got significant insight not to just how historically our flows have worked which helped us validate what we had been seeing but also what's currently on the plate and what they expect to put back to us in the future.
And those latter 2 are extremely helpful so even as we see increases in our operational pipeline or increases in new requests et cetera that doesn't necessarily mean that that's any different from what they had already talked to us about.
And so as I alluded to those were all expected.
And I actually said in my earlier comments that we assume a backlog of requests which we believe drove the new requests and that was something for instance that we learned when we talked to Fannie Mae.
And what was going on.
So all of the trends that we've seen this quarter are ones that we fully expected and we expect to be able to have pretty good visibility going forward.
One of the thing that we walked away with -- and as BJ alluded to -- is the understanding of this backlog.
And we have -- we think we understand the sub-elements of the portfolio that drove that.
We think we have a much better sense of what that will play out like over the next several quarters and we may see another couple sub-elements to the portfolio lead to another surge later in the year.
But as you sort of summarize all of this what we'll now be tracking is our understanding of that loss expectation and those portfolios with how claims are coming in and looking for changes in GSE behaviors or the nature or the type of requests that we're seeing.
And So as BJ said everything we've seen through the remainder of the quarter is consistent and we don't have anything that's really changed our belief structure about what our remaining exposure is.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me beat this topic a little bit more into the ground in terms of the mortgage repurchase numbers.
It -- from your slide it looks like you're saying that rescission rates remain in the 45% to 55%.
Average loss severities really haven't changed over the last few quarters from the 50% to 60% range.
And I guess I'm just curious as to -- I'm presuming are those the assumptions that you're using for when you came up with the provision for this quarter? Or are you assuming as one of your competitors has recently said that potentially the loss rates could come down a little bit over time? It's BJ.
Yes.
As I said on the announcement call Form 8-K we didn't learn anything different about our rescission rates and what are our loss severities from what we were expecting and this was no different.
So yes we didn't see any change to how we came up with the reserve based on what our trends were here.
We did see in the second quarter a higher level of "missing that request " which are -- we have much higher with success rate on.
As you might imagine they don't have lost content necessarily in them.
They're just looking to clean up paperwork.
So that would drive a higher success rate in the quarter.
What we always try to talk about is cumulative success rates and cumulative severities and so those haven't changed materially and we don't necessarily expect things to be outside that range for the foreseeable future.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me use my follow-up to ask about the capital markets business.
Obviously that was down a bit quarter-over-quarter.
And I noticed last year that we -- that you saw relatively strong levels of capital markets revenue in the second half of the year.
Maybe that's a little counterintuitive given the capital markets environment last year.
How are you thinking about the potential revenue opportunities relative to the second quarter in the second half of the year given your earlier comments about clients being a bit more cautious in terms of how their using their cash? Sure.
Yes as I said we currently expect for the rest of the year to probably be in the lower half of our average daily revenue range.
There are -- our range is $1 million and $1.5 million.
We booked $1.1 million this quarter.
Keep in mind last quarter -- I'm sorry last year this quarter we had $1.1 million.
They were roughly flat year-over-year.
So this business is always going to be what I call variable not volatile.
So we'll make a good amount of money and we'll make some great amount of money in certain periods.
This was a period -- this was a quarter where we good amount of money.
So very pleased with the quarter.
Looking forward we're generally assuming with my comments that we don't see a lot of virus coming off the sideline.
We don't necessarily see improvements in the visibility in Europe or with where rates are going for the second half of the year.
But to the extent they do improve we think it'd better.
But now we're staying a little bit more on the cautious side in terms of our outlook there.
If you go back -- this is Bryan.
If you go back and you play out say third quarter of 2011 what really picked up in the last half of the year is investor expectations changed.
So as we look at the remainder of the year there are a couple of big drivers.
One there's this fair amount of cost that's been built up or not invested and in all likelihood is going to get invested at some level.
And two investor expectations are going to change and it's going to depend on what the Fed may or may not do around quantitative easing or operation twist or any statements that may be made there or the long-term debt outlook in the U.S.
et cetera.
So there are a lot of variables that could change it.
But as BJ said we'll have some variability around it.
But even at the $1.1 million a day.
Average daily revenue we're producing north of 2% ROE so it's a business that's very profitable to us.
And we'd obviously would like to do more but it's one that we feel like we can be very effective in and produce very good returns in.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If we could -- I just wanted to hit on the regional bank commercial loan trends for a second if we could.
It's all bit of a conflicting signal and that the pipeline was down quarter-over-quarter but you did see a pickup in fundings.
Could you give us a sense of just kind of what the dynamic is there and maybe what you guys are seeing geographically within your footprint in terms of demand and lending trends? It's BJ.
I think it is a pretty tight correlation between pipeline and funding so if you looked -- for instance if you remember fourth quarter to first quarter we actually saw the pipeline up but fundings down.
And it just simply meant that the cycle time was not -- was different.
So our fundings didn't happen as much in the first quarter but then we saw good fundings in the second and that means that there's loans coming out of the pipeline.
So the pipeline of funding is going to have inflow but we still think both of them are very healthy.
And it's showing up in our loan growth period-end loan growth in the regional bank of 3%.
We have continued to see good growth in loans in mortgage companies which is nice but we've also seen good loans -- good growth solid growth good return growth in corporate lending which is pleasing to us a modest growth in our core C&amp;I lending.
On the consumer side we've seen some healthy growth there in installment real estate.
So our bankers continue to be very disciplined and focused.
We talk to them all of the time about getting the appropriate returns appropriate credit quality and structure.
And even with that the activity that they're generating in a modest environment is very impressive and we're proud of the growth and the quality of the growth that we're seeing.
Emlen this is Bryan.
I'll add to what BJ said.
If you back away from the quantitative and focus on the qualitative aspects of -- for a second I think -- I'm really proud of the calling efforts that our bankers are making.
They're doing a fantastic job calling on customers.
We're winning great relationships.
We're building strong relationships for the long term.
You see some real pockets where the pipeline although it may be down slightly from quarter-to-quarter based on a number of factors the quality number of customers that we think is going to close over the next several months is really improving.
Then I'm really pleased with what our bankers have done over the last year and I like the momentum we've got going into the remainder of this year.
I think we're winning good relationships.
We're picking up some market share and doing a great job executing in terms of discipline over the long term.
So I -- it may ever flow a little bit from a pipeline perspective but I think the momentum continues to be strong and I think as you'll get to the end of this year that it's going to look pretty good.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus on 2 things: One is the capital again; and then the other is going back to the mortgage number this quarter.
First on the capital I think what we're seeing is a spot rate problem that you took the charge this quarter drops your Basel I number and then you're introducing the Basel III impact which then drops -- what -- last quarter was a 12% number kind of in a spot mine in the market down to about an 8% number.
However when you look at what you're going to be doing going forward the 10.6 under Basel I is really what matters in the sense of what you're going to be managing to.
And then you've got $200 million of roughly annual earnings that you have coming forward in the future.
So when you start looking at capacity to still repurchase you really have to factor in the fact that you took that big charge this quarter but that's really just accelerating and improving earnings in the future which then gives you more capacity to repurchase out of earnings versus the spot right on capital.
Yes it makes sense.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on this -- how do -- in general is that how you look at that rein or in the sense of utilize that hit this quarter does really free up in the sense of $250 million over time capital that you could repurchase? There is -- Marty this is Bryan.
There's no doubt that the $250 million charge and the $22 million around litigation reduces the starting point.
And it does assuming that's just a difference in when those losses would have been incurred from an accounting perspective that does change the earnings trajectory in the out years.
And so that does rebuild -- or out quarters -- that does rebuild.
So I mean that's a great way of describing it.
And two I would say and it also incorporates the fact that we will look at the effective use of our balance sheet and the mix and the profitability the product we're putting on.
LLC Research Division</strong> The other spot right issue was hit kind of Tier 1 common under Basel III.
But when you look at that particular issue -- we had this happen last week as well with another company.
This is a temporary situation since between now and 2015.
Like you said the portfolio changes.
So you get to recapture that just on the natural runoff that would happen.
When you're doing discussions with the regulators and they're talking about Basel III are they interested in what it is today or more interested in really what it is in 2015? We're not having those discussions at this point Marty.
These are proposed rules.
They're in the comment period and so it's really -- it's not a regulatory discussion that we're really having much about.
We keep our regulators apprised of how things look like they might play out.
But we're not sort of at the point where we'd focus on -- whether we're focused on end of 2014 or end of 2018.
We're still working through how the rule's finalizing and developing our comments in fact for how we'll respond to the request for comment.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then BJ I wanted just to drill down on the mortgage number just one more time given some of the information you gave early on.
Last quarter you had $23 million worth of mortgage banking fees.
Your hedge number was a positive 9 you said.
Your MSR value was constant at 68 basis points.
So there wasn't really in any shift in MSR value which leaves $14 million kind of in the other bucket which is kind equating to the general fees that you get off the portfolio each quarter.
If you roll to this quarter at $10 million hedge goes down to $2 million but you actually increase the value of the servicing book from 68 basis points to 71 which means that that kind of middle part or the operating part would have had to drop from 14 to 2.
So I understand the hedging doing a little less beneficial but you also had that positive over in there in the value of the servicing portfolio.
So it seems like the core part is missing something and I was just trying to get my hands around that.
It's BJ.
Yes.
If you have get our financial supplement we actually have a breakdown of all the ins and outs of our noninterest income related to mortgage.
It's in our -- it's in the non-strategic.
But if you look at it we had $10 million that is noninterest income 2Q versus $26 million in 1Q.
The biggest changes were servicing fees were down a couple of million dollars.
We had $1 million change in the MSR value due to runoff and then the biggest change being the net hedge results down from $9 million to about $1.8 million or so.
So it's all laid out back there on Slide 19 as a supplement if you want to go through it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And it looks like the other income is where a lot of that core came out of and is that something that would go back to something in the neighborhood of $3 million? Is that kind of the -- that modest adjustment you were talking about that was more of a onetime in this quarter? Yes yes.
If you look in the footnote there it was a $2.3 million adjustment on a contingency related to prior servicing sales.
So that is the onetime-type event so you can assume that that goes in the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And BJ if you humor me with one more.
Potentially the expenses that you're assuming are embedded in the $1 billion at the end of this year how much benefit do you get out of that as you roll into 2013? Let's see.
Let me do the math in my head.
It's about $25 million full year cost.
I take that back.
$25 million to $35 million.
Our next question comes from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one other question on the GSE putbacks just in terms of commentary one of your competitors noted that the GSEs have indicated that towards the end of the year they would start requesting follow-ups for I guess any loan that went nonperforming.
Was that the base case assumption that you assume for your potential lifetime loss estimate? It's BJ.
We -- like I said they gave us visibility not just with currently selected but they broke it into 2 buckets for us actually.
One was current liquidated loans and that the actual number of loans they expected to put back to us out that bucket and the second was the bucket of seriously delinquent loans and the exact number of loans that they would expect to put back to us out of that population.
So the first one on liquidated loans they give full visibility and what they would have expected to put back.
So we believe that we've got that captured.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That make sense.
And then just in terms of the 10.5% of Basel III number can you give us a sense is there -- what type of assumptions were there made within that in terms of capital return? Or is that just all mitigation? Yes.
We won't go into very specific details.
But we assume continued run rate on dividends.
We assumed some retained earnings from increased earnings over the time period.
So I don't want to get into particular capital actions but we assume some.
Our next question comes from Chris Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to ask about loan yields and just the ongoing stability that you've shown there.
Is there any reason that that would change in the next couple of quarters just given kind of what you see in terms of rollovers and the portfolio turning? It's BJ.
We've worked really hard or our bankers have on trying to defend those yields as well as we could and it shows up in our numbers.
They've done an excellent job.
I don't particularly see any material change though the longer the interest rate environment goes on the harder and harder it is to defend that.
I think we've talked about before that roughly 65% of our bucket floating rate 35% fixed.
That 35% is very hard to reprice and continue to keep yields up so that's where we lose traction every time we see a payoff there.
But like I said earlier our bankers are looking for every opportunity to appropriately price in today's environment for both risk and rewards.
So we continue to believe that we'll be able to defend our yields as well as we can.
LLC Research Division</strong> BJ if you look at the duration maybe even just on the C&amp;I piece of the portfolio or even real estate is that going to evolve higher than you typical have? Or you expect to manage it sort of similar in the past? The duration risk? LLC Research Division</strong> Correct.
Chris I don't -- that really doesn't change much.
It'll depend on what kind of loans you're putting on where you're putting on a real estate loan or a C&amp;I loan but given that the vast majority of what we put on the balance sheet is floating rate you got longer -- you may have difference in tenure but in terms of sensitivity to interest rate risk it's really not changing a whole lot in terms of duration to -- as it relate to interest rate risk.
Our next question comes from Kevin Reynolds with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Bryan I guess I have a bigger picture question.
As we look at the bonefish and you look at 125 to 145 being your long-term ROA targets I know that a prolonged interest rate environment or low interest rate environment is an impediment.
But beyond that what are the other things that you look at out there? And now that you've fast forwarded your expense guidance of a year what else do you look at that could derail you a little bit there from achieving those goals? Well I guess you can come up with a bunch of hypotheticals Kevin.
I feel good about our ability to hit these targets.
As you said not only us but everybody could benefit from a steeper and higher nominal level of interest rates but that's an industry-wide issue.
I guess you could see additional impact as it relates to fee revenues related to changes in consumer banking in particular and maybe some on the commercial side but I don't think there's anything that really seems like a looming threat out there on the horizon that causes us concern about our ability to hit these longer-term targets.
We feel like we're executing day in day out.
Our bankers our capital our entire organization is focused on how we drive the profitability of the business.
They understand these targets and I think all 6 [indiscernible] and we're on track towards getting those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
and then I guess one other question on capital markets.
I know there's the uncertainty in the interest rate environment but in years past if loan demand picked up your depository customers would use some of that excess liquidity and you'd see daily activity fall.
Is there any of that going on? Because I know there's been -- regardless of the type of loans that are being originated there have been stronger loan originations this quarter than many believed were coming.
Is there any of that going on? Or is that perhaps just wishful thinking? Well I would suggest that there's not a whole lot of pickup in loan demand.
All generalizations are  wrong and it'll somebody out there that will have seen a big pickup.
I think what you're seeing right in broad sense is loan demand.
It's consistent with the economy.
It's growing in the 1% to 2% range and there is an awful lot of competition for the deals that are out there.
It manifests itself in pricing and structure.
So I'm sure we've got some customers out there that are seeing some pickup in loan demand but I think at the end of the day it's not the system-wide or economy-wide pickup in demand.
And I think these capital rules are going to have an impact on what that loan demand pickup looks like.
Because it's going to make it prohibitive to put mortgage product on the balance sheet for example these capital rules.
So there's a lot of things here that impact what happens industry-wide in the balance sheet and I think all of those give us some comfort that what we will continue to see strength in the capital markets business and it's likely to be a steady business for us for the next several quarters.
Our next question comes from Dave Bishop with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the loan loss provision relative to the commentary and regards to maybe the outlook for loan demand here and you're doubling from last quarter obviously reflecting some growth do you expect that to sort of represent a sort of a normalization of provision relative to revenues or if we do see some diminution growth we should expect that to rein in a little bit.
Yes.
This is BJ.
According to our bonefish targets our normalized provision would be around 50 basis points or so on loans.
So that would be in the -- anywhere from $15 million to $25 million range.
And we expect to be within that over the next several quarters.
And as we've talked about we expect to see continued improvement in net charge-offs.
We expect to continue see improvement in grading and grade migration.
But with the reserve at a 109 basis points we still see continued improvement there to be able to bring the reserve down appropriately.
But it's going to continue -- it's going to happen at a slow pace.
So we're very mindful of having sound and adequate reserves and credit quality but with continued improvement in our portfolios we'll expect continued improvement in provisions.
Our next question comes from Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> When I look at what you've done so far the new NPRs are a hit to capital but at this point it's proposed so who knows how they ultimately shake out.
You're ahead of the game on your cost cuts and preparing as if the Basel III is going to happen as it stands today.
When I look out -- as it is today you probably have about $250 million in excess capital just based on the spot the 8.2% Tier 1 common.
The amount for private label putbacks at this point it's anybody's guess if you get any or what the dollar amounts could be.
But if they do come they could be -- maybe there could be substantials.
Who knows what the dollar amount is.
Why -- in that scenario why would you even want to buy back another dollar of stock like you're trying to build capital for the future.
Just thinking about that buyback would it be more prudent just to hold back in terms of the unknown? Or how do I think about that? Well Mike this is Bryan.
We -- as we look at our capital actions we do extensive stress testing.
We capture all of the known and we estimate even unknown exposures in our stress testing.
And as we've said over the last several quarters we factor in the impact of mortgage repurchase both with the GSEs and any potential exposure that made just with the private labels.
And so all that's factored into our calculations.
We're comfortable in our analysis of the capital situation that we can be opportunistic.
We can look for opportunities to repurchase stock and we continue to intend to do so.
I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call conference back over to Bryan for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining our call this morning.
Please let us know if you have any additional questions or follow-up that we can help with.
I hope everyone has a great weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Aarti Bowman.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly report.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Greg Jardine will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call.
During the third quarter we built on our momentum continuing to successfully execute on our strategic plan while controlling what we can control.
We improved profitability of our core businesses made headway towards achieving our expense save targets and further strengthen our balance sheet as we reduce non-strategic assets grew loans and improved credit quality in our core segments.
We're also deploying capital.
Since the third quarter of 2011 we've bought back $140 million of common stock including $15 million in this quarter and still have $60 million of our share repurchase program remaining.
Our core businesses regional banking and capital markets grew pretax pre-provision net revenue by 5% linked quarter.
Year-over-year the regional bank pre-provision pretax net revenue was up 2% driven by a 7% increase in net interest income.
In capital markets third quarter fixed income average daily revenues were $1.2 million up from second quarter 2012's level.
FTN Financial's expansive distribution platform and diverse customer base provide solid fee income and strong returns for us.
Capital markets return on assets was an annualized 2.3% in the third quarter.
Balance sheet trends were also positive.
Average core deposits in the regional bank increased 9% year-over-year.
Recently released June 2012 FDIC deposit data illustrates just how solid this growth is across the markets we serve.
Even including a planned reduction in our Memphis markets excess wholesale funding we retained top ranking in our West and East regions and we continue to make solid progress in middle Tennessee where we gained 100 basis points of share.
Our regional bank grew average loans 12% year-over-year keeping loan yields relatively stable despite competitive pricing in our markets.
Net interest spread in the regional bank was 354 basis points up 4 basis points from a year ago.
Our loan mix continued to improve as relationship-oriented loan growth in the regional bank more than offset nonstrategic loan run-off in the third quarter.
Total consolidated average loans were up 3% year-over-year driven by a 15% increase in our C&amp;I portfolio.
Consolidated net interest margin was 3.15% relatively flat from second quarter but down from last year.
And ongoing positive shift in our loan mix along with further improvement in our funding mix and pricing should continue to mitigate margin compression from the drag of an extended low interest-rate environment.
In general asset quality continued to improve.
However we implemented new regulatory guidelines that call for performing consumer -- performing consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to collateral value.
This new guidance cause us to take an incremental loan-loss provision.
Our third quarter loan-loss provision was $40 million including $30 million related to these regulatory driven charge-offs.
Consolidated net charge-offs were $79 million with $40 million related to the regulatory guidance.
Excluding the regulatory change-driven charge-offs net charge-offs were $39 million and declined 63% from third quarter 2011.
Nonperforming assets declined 23% year-over-year 28% excluding the bankruptcy-related charge-offs.
We expect ongoing stable to improving trends across our loan portfolios as we look forward.
Improving our productivity and efficiency is a key priority and we're making good progress.
Consolidated expenses were down 18% year-over-year reflecting a decline in mortgage repurchase provision expense to 0 as well as successful execution on our efficiency initiatives.
We're on track to reach our targeted annual expense goal of approximately $1 billion by the end of 2012 a year ahead of our initial plan.
Additionally we now expect to have in place another $50 million of efficiency initiatives in our run rate by year-end 2013 beyond our already announced $139 million of initiatives.
To summarize we're successfully executing on our strategic priorities.
We expect a low interest rate slow growth economy to persist so we're optimizing our business mix to well position ourselves when the economy does improve.
We are diligently working to improve our productivity and efficiency which is increasingly important in today's operating environment.
At the same time we're continuing to make appropriate investments in technology and products that will help us better serve our existing customer base and enhance our ability to attract new customers and profitable business.
We are committed to providing superior customer service and we are focused on deploying capital smartly to achieve attractive long-term returns for our shareholders.
I'll be back with some closing comments but now BJ will take you through the detailed financial results.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 5 of our deck.
Third quarter 2012 consolidated pretax income was $34 million compared to second quarter's loss of $211 million.
As you'll recall second quarter included $272 million of pretax charges from an addition to the mortgage repurchase reserve and our litigation reserve.
Pretax income from our core businesses was $70 million in the third quarter up 10% from the second.
You'll see the consolidated revenue excluding securities gains grew 3% linked quarter; total average loans were up 3% with new loan bookings outpacing nonstrategic runoffs; and in fact regional banking average loans were up 5% on a linked quarter basis.
Consolidated net interest margin was 3.14% in the third quarter compared to 3.15% in the second.
We had some positive impacts to the margin including the higher loan volume and the lower cash balances which were somewhat offset by continued lower reinvestment rates in the securities portfolio as well as the seasonal decline in loan fees in the bank.
While we expect to see some variability in quarterly net interest margin we do currently forecast that consolidated net interest margin should be in the 3.10% to 3.15% range in the fourth quarter.
If you look at Slide 6 I'll hit some of the significant items in the quarter.
As Bryan mentioned we took incremental loan-loss provisioning associated with the charging down discharged bankruptcies to estimated collateral value.
Provision related to this impact was net $30 million or about a $0.07 EPS impact.
I'll get more into this in a few minutes.
We also had a $6.6 million expense or an after-tax per share impact of roughly $0.02 related to a litigation matter.
Moving to Slide 7.
I'll talk about our regional bank performance which continues to strengthen and improve.
Linked quarter pretax pre-provision net revenue was up 5%.
Net interest income was up 2% on those higher loan balances.
Net interest income was down slightly about 1% with 6% growth in deposit-related fees largely offsetting modestly lower cash management debit card and investment management fees.
Loan-loss provision in the bank was $4 million in the third quarter compared to $5 million in the second.
And expenses in the bank were down 1% from last quarter due to lower compensation costs.
Looking at the balance sheet in the regional bank on Slide 8.
As I've mentioned average loans in the bank were up 5% on a linked quarter basis driven primarily by loans to mortgage companies corporate lending and consumer lending.
Activity and outlook remain strong as well as we remained focus on making higher-return higher-quality loans.
Our loan pipeline increased and our commercial fundings were up as well.
Average core deposits in the bank were down slightly due to some balance sheet management by some large commercial customers.
But otherwise deposit flows remain very strong.
And you'll notice that the cost of average deposit declined about 2 basis points from last quarter to 34 basis points.
Moving to Slide 9 our capital markets business.
FTN delivered another solid quarter with pretax income of $21 million up 7% on a linked quarter basis.
Our average daily revenues in the business were $1.2 million up from last quarter's level and within our normalized range of about $1 million to $1.5 million.
Expenses were up as well 6% due to higher variable comp associated with those increased revenues.
In this business while the agency and mortgage project -- products continue to lead our performance here we've continued to see an uptick in our municipal business as we focus more sales and trading resources on this sector.
And as we've said previously we currently anticipate our average daily revenues to be in the lower half of our normalized range over the next several quarters.
Moving to Slide 10 on productivity and efficiency initiatives.
As Bryan mentioned we should be around our targeted $1 billion annualized level of consolidated expenses by the end of 2012.
We're on track with our ongoing productivity efforts and implemented about $130 million of our $139 million of core efficiency initiatives since 2010.
And as part of these efficiency efforts we currently anticipate a higher level of restructuring cost of about $10 million in the fourth quarter.
You'll also notice legal expenses were up in the third quarter due to increased activity around litigation and we do expect legal expenses to stay relatively flat going forward to the third quarter levels.
Our additional $50 million of efficiency as Bryan mentioned should be in our run rate by the end of 2013 as we execute on additional expense reduction efforts.
Turning to Slide 11 I'll review mortgage repurchase reserve.
As you know based on information we received from Fannie and extrapolated to Freddie we added $250 million to the repurchase reserve in the second quarter.
In September we received an update from Fannie and looked at the data and it did not change our reserve estimates resulting in a 0 repurchase provision expense in the third quarter.
The mortgage repurchase pipeline was up modestly to $446 million and the net realized losses were $68 million.
Our net realized losses were up due to higher resolutions from working through the pipeline.
And the repurchase reserve at the end of the third quarter stands at $292 million.
On the private securitization side we had no loan repurchase requests.
We did have 3 new lawsuits come in during the third quarter.
And at this time based on our private securitizations origination mix deal size age and performance we continue to believe that any risk from our legacy first derived [ph] in private securitization should be significantly less than what we've seen from the GSE experience.
Turning to Slide 12 on asset quality.
In the third quarter credit quality metrics incorporated the recently issued regulatory guidance mentioned earlier.
Incremental provision reflects our decision to address this new guidance specifically and not use unallocated reserves to offset this.
And at this time we do not expect this guidance to have a significant effect on future quarterly provision or charge-offs.
Linked quarter our loan-loss reserve declined 12% to $282 million.
Our reserve to loan coverage stands at 171 basis points.
The reserve decline reflects charge-offs related to the new regulatory guidance continued wind-down from the nonstrategic segment as well as stabilization and improvement across all our portfolios.
And in fact in our TRUPs portfolio we had 3 bank TRUPs come off deferral during the quarter.
Next slide shows some of the characteristics of our third quarter regulatory change-driven consumer charge-offs which were primarily on the home equity loan side.
We charged off $40 million on current and early-stage delinquency post-Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans to the value of underlying collateral.
Out of the $40 million of charge-offs $33 million were related to performing loans.
And substantially all of the $38 million of HELOC charge-offs were for current and early-stage delinquency loans.
As a result we should experience recoveries from these loans in future quarters as many of these borrowers continue to make payments.
You'll see NPA trends on the next slide.
NPAs declined 4% to $450 million from last quarter.
Our NPA-to-period-loans ratio declined 17 basis points to 215.
Our inflows were significantly down from last quarter and our resolutions were up resulting in a decrease in commercial nonperforming loans of about 15%.
Wrapping up on Slide 15.
We continue to manage our company to achieve long-term reserve -- returns and profitability targets using our bonefish strategy and our progress is evident in return improvement.
Our core business trends are good with core ROA in an annualized 1% and core ROE at about 11.8% in the third quarter.
Capital remains strong and we will continue to buy back shares under our stock repurchase program.
And we'll continue to look at the mix of stock repurchases dividends and M&amp;A to optimize return for our shareholders.
With the currently proposed Basel III capital rules we continue to expect to manage our capital ratios within our bonefish range.
And we currently expect the negative impacts of the NPR to our Tier 1 common ratio to be offset by mitigating actions over time.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Bryan for some final comments.
Thanks BJ.
Thanks to the effort of our team third quarter 2012 -- excuse me third quarter of 2012 demonstrated another quarter of successful execution.
We showed improved profitability in our core businesses.
We're continuing to put the nonstrategic issues behind us.
Our efficiency initiatives are on track and we returned capital to our shareholders with our ongoing share buybacks.
For the remainder of 2012 and throughout 2013 we'll continue to work toward achieving our bonefish goals and remain focused on achieving higher returns.
Thanks and now we'll take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> The -- we heard your comment about the private securitization being still significantly lower risked than what you guys experienced in GSE and now you have 3 more additional lawsuits.
Can you just dig in to that a little more on why you still feel good? I think before you've talked about time being your friend on this and statute of limitations.
If you could just kind of give us your sense of comfort and why the incremental lawsuits don't necessarily increase the risk for you.
And then on the topic of buy -- of put-backs I noticed on Page 26 of the slide deck on whole loan sales there's a new line in there on certain parties have initiated loan-file reviews.
If you could just comment on what that means whether that's an incremental source of new put-back requests to expect.
Kevin it's BJ.
Let me just start with the second.
I don't think that that comment is new.
And what we saw in the third quarter was the FDIC with some suits putting back some loans from some failed institutions.
You've seen that across the industry.
So we got a few of those.
And we also got a few indemnification requests which aren't technically lawsuits but they are requests for us to indemnify loans that we had sold to others who then securitized loans.
So they're a little different.
But stepping back from that in general there's obviously a lot of activity around this.
We knew that.
We actively monitor that.
We have seen lawsuits in the past.
But we continue to believe that based on the fact that we haven't done anything since 2007 on these that our performance on these is relatively good relative to others in terms of performance.
Time is our friend from -- particularly from a litigation perspective in terms of suits being brought et cetera.
We still continue to believe that there are a lot of mitigating factors here that give us confidence that this experience if any is going to be far less than what we saw with the GSEs.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> BJ what about the FHFA lawsuit? Any new developments there? I know that was probably set not to come to trial for quite some time.
Yes that's right.
We currently understand that that's not supposed to go to trial until sometime in 2015.
So there's still a lot of back and forth going on in terms of the normal legal process there but it's still in the early stages.
Our next question is from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> To follow up on Kevin's questions if we look at the revised disclosures in the appendix on the private label you are now past the 5-year statute of limitations on almost all of these right? The last big one was in August of '07.
Why is this risk now behind you in terms of having to provide on the private label side going forward? Yes.
Steve it's BJ.
I think as we've talked about before the state statutes of limitations are not all the same.
Many of them are 3 years.
Many of the others are 5 years.
There are a handful that are longer than that around 6 years.
But by the end of this year 100% of our securitizations will be greater than 5 years old which means that -- particularly the '06s will be greater than 6 years old.
So that's what we talk about when time is our friend.
There's still as you can see in the industry plenty of activity people trying to take action on these and we'll just have to deal with that.
But again the longer this goes the better it is for us.
Steve this is Bryan.
I'll add to that.
I think in the broad scheme of things that the statutes of limitations and repose are our friend as BJ said and the passage of time is helpful.
And there are -- we think that as these things have continued to perform as they've continued to pay down that that risk does diminish every quarter that goes by so we do feel good about that.
There are -- as pointed out in the comment BJ made about indemnification requests for loans there are 2 ways to have exposure.
One is securities litigation and that's where the statute of limitations and repose is most impactful.
But you also have whole loan request.
The indemnification requests that BJ referenced are not specific as I would translate it.
They're basically a placeholder saying that "We've been requested to buy back some loans and if any of them are yours and you breach covenants we're going to ask you to buy them back." So at this point they're basically placeholders and it's hard to read through what that ultimately means.
As we've said several times over the last several years when you look at this in total we think that this is an exposure that is manageable significantly less in our view than anything we've experienced on the Fannie Mae Freddie Mac repurchases and we think it diminishes as time passes.
So we think --it's important that we keep you up-to-date on what's going on in it.
But our view of the risk is still where it's been which is this is manageable and it declines with time.
Research Division</strong> Bryan just one other question on the new OCC guidance.
Seems to be impacting the industry to different degrees.
Some banks have to provide for this; others it's just impacting restructured loans and charge-offs.
Could you explain to us why you needed to provide another $30 million as it relates to the new guidance? Yes Steve.
It's BJ.
A couple of different things that I'll mention here.
And I mentioned it in my talking points at the beginning.
One is when we got this guidance late in the quarter and we looked at what this would impact -- keep in mind that most of these are for performing loans.
And if you think about how you reserve for performing loans on the consumer side a lot of times you're looking at a roll rate methodology.
And if something's current you're going to have very little reserve against it okay? So that's why we had much more in charge-off than we had in release of reserves net specifically related to this.
There is something called unallocated reserves some people call it economic reserves that are not specifically tied to any loans or loan portfolio that people have.
We specifically chose not to use any of these unallocated or economic reserves to offset this impact.
We didn't find that appropriate.
I believe if you look across at others in the industry they may have done that.
So we made that conscious decision.
It hurts us right now.
We think it's an accounting issue and an accounting -- unfortunate accounting hurt.
And as we've said we think this accretes back to us over the long term.
You can see in talking points as well for those customers that we have that have been bankrupt over 2 years 60% of those have sent us a payment every month consecutively for the last 24 months.
That tells you that they are paying they are -- they do believe that they owe this and that we expect again to recover a lot of this over the next several quarters.
Steve this is Bryan.
I'll give sort of the -- a layman recovery and accountant view of this in some respects.
We go through and we look at the make-up of our portfolio.
And as BJ and I sort of pointed out indirectly we had about 25% reserves on these assets which is the sort of difference between the charge-off level and the incremental provisions.
So we had about 25% reserve.
And as BJ described the unallocated or the -- really the qualitative factors that go into the reserve there's a lot of judgment and this gets factored into it.
We just felt like it was appropriate not to adjust our qualitative factors at this time to leave those reserves and to take the charge through P&amp;L.
Other people can reach different judgments but we just erred on the side of leaving our qualitative reserves where they are given where we are in the cycle.
Our next question is from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On the private label side have you evaluated -- I'm not particularly sure if this is relevant here but evaluated the signing of tolling agreements around any of these lawsuits? And would that be something if you did that would impact your view on the statute of limitations and how that weighs in? Well again -- John it's BJ.
I'm not a lawyer but the way I understand tolling agreements is that both parties come to an agreement that a statute is about to expire and that both agree to essentially extend that so that more dialogue and discussion can occur.
We haven't to my knowledge had any of those discussions.
I'm frankly not sure sitting here today why you would.
But I can't speak to what others may have done with those kinds of agreements.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
But you haven't signed any yet.
No.
No we haven't signed any.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And you indicated in your slide deck on private label that file reviews have begun.
And I guess the way we understand it typically that could portend an increase or a pickup coming in requests some put-back requests on the private label side.
Is that fair to assume? And could you just talk about that a little bit? I think the answer could be yes.
Yes I think on file reviews that's -- that would probably be a logical next step if something did occur.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then lastly in terms of the NPR I know you indicated that you expect to mitigate that over time.
In the context of what that meant for your capital ratios can you try to talk about buyback plans beyond this program? I know you're in the process of CCAR for 2013 and you may not be able to talk too much about it.
But can you give us just a good way to think about could the NPR here impact your longer-term buyback plans? John this is Bryan.
Look we think we've still got a fair amount of excess capital that we think it's appropriate to return to shareholders and whether that be through continuation of our buyback program.
As we commented earlier we have about $60 million remaining under our initial authorization and we'll continue to do that as appropriate over the next several months and quarters.
We'll submit our stress testing work with our regulators as appropriate and continue to evaluate how we repatriate capital over 2013 and beyond to our shareholders.
And we'll consider all the appropriate elements of that.
That said I think we've -- the NPR and how Basel III gets implemented I don't think it has any impact on our plans in the short run.
It more likely will have -- if it gets implemented as it's proposed it will probably have more impact on the nature and the pricing of lending that we do rather than our management of capital because we're driven by the bonefish.
We're driven by providing adequate returns on our capital.
And so we're not going to overreact to a proposed rule-making at this point.
We'll react to it as it gets finalized.
But in the broad context I think we've got plenty of capital.
We ought to look at appropriate ways and means to return that to our shareholders and work with our regulators to ensure that happens.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to see if I could switch the discussion just a little bit.
The reserve-to-loans ratio ended the quarter at about 1.7%.
I think you've said in the past that you thought that sort of a normalized run rate might be in the 1.5% to 2% range.
So I guess I'm curious as you look out and you've started to see a little bit of loan growth in the portfolio this quarter particularly in C&amp;I what kind of outlook do you have for further reserve releases from this point? Matt it's BJ.
Yes you're exactly right.
I think we see a normalized range of 1.5% to 2%.
It would be a good thing to have to build incremental provision for growing loan growth.
But at this time as I've said previously over the last few quarters we do expect continued reduction in charge-offs and continued incremental reserve decreases as our nonstrategic loan portfolios continue to run off positive grade migration continues to improve in the regional bank.
But that reserve decrease will continue to get smaller and smaller as we get down towards the lower end of this range.
Then work -- our models will continue to tell us to release reserves.
And so what we want to do is make sure that we're operating very appropriately looking at the adequacy of our reserves for current and future events and we feel very comfortable with where we're at and we feel very comfortable with where the glide path is.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So not to put words in your mouth but it sounds like the 1.5% number you may go a little bit below that just in terms of cyclicality but not probably too far below it.
That's probably fair to say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I guess a margin question.
You reiterated your guidance for net interest margin in the 3.10% to 3.15% range this quarter which is consistent with what you said for the second half.
I guess looking into 2013 how are you thinking about your ability to be able to reduce deposit costs further? The deposit cost decline has slowed a little bit not surprisingly given the environment.
But does QE3 help you at all incrementally relative to what you might have thought 3 to 6 months ago in terms of being able to drive deposit costs down? Probably -- I don't see a huge impact on deposit cost side from QE3.
I would also expect that we still have maybe a few basis points or so over time of deposit cost reduction mostly from our CD portfolio and maybe some places here and there on other products but we've largely harvested probably what we can do with the deposit costs.
I think our asset sensitivity on this topic specifically helps us because we have a higher floating rate loan mix.
And therefore as loans are repricing here it's not nearly as big of an impact as maybe some others might have fixed rate portfolio that's repricing.
So we still think as you said that we're in the 3.10% to 3.15% range.
And if I look out into 2013 the same as we've seen in 2012 we think we'll be able to hold our margins pretty well.
We'll probably see it continue to float down quarter-to-quarter but not drop off a cliff.
We think we're managing our margin pretty well in this environment.
Our next question is from Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> On just -- to go to more of the macro -- I guess not so much the macro but what you guys are seeing in your area.
I know a lot of banks yesterday came out and said even though they saw at the beginning of the quarter some decent loan growth there's some decent C&amp;I in September they thought a lot of guys are going to the sidelines.
Are you seeing the same thing in your market? And also on some of the commercial loan C&amp;I stuff what type of pricing are you seeing out there? Is it very competitive in the Tennessee market? Paul this is Bryan.
We're seeing still a fair amount of cautiousness in borrowers and really the words that most often get used the uncertainty around the fiscal cliff and what's going on in the economy et cetera et cetera.
So we are seeing some softness.
With that as a backdrop though I would say our pipelines have been pretty solid and up slightly.
We think we're -- our calling efforts are paying off.
We had I thought very good results in the third quarter of this year.
And so it's an environment that's a little bit unusual in terms of people moving forward until we deal with some of these structural issues.
But I think on a relative basis our pipelines show we're doing reasonably well.
Competition is still very strong.
I would say my sense is that we're probably seeing some stabilization in terms of competition on the structure.
Price competition is still very dependent on where you are in the state and what customer you're dealing with but it's still very competitive on price and that's a -- that's still very prominent in the marketplace.
We're still seeing a lot of what I would term low rate fixed -- long-term fixed-rate lending that doesn't seem to make a lot of sense to us but -- so that's sort of a broad context.
I feel good about our opportunity but I think it's in a difficult operating environment still.
Our next question is from Erika Penala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the expense guidance.
The $1 billion run rate that you'll be entering 2013 and the $950 million that you'll be entering 2014 is that net of any investments that you are going to make back into the franchise? Or is that sort of a starting point? Erika this is Bryan.
That's a net number.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That was clear.
And the -- my second part question is on the dividend payout.
I guess Bryan how are you thinking about normalizing the dividend on a go-forward basis? Do you see your next step immediately maximizing to close just 30% of earnings? Or do you think it's going to be a little bit more gradual? Yes.
I don't want to commit but I think it's appropriate for us over as I said earlier working with our regulators over the next several quarters to think about how we use that dividend and I think it's appropriate that we'd consider increases to that.
The 30% guidance seems to be the high-water mark in terms of where the regulatory guidance is today.
So I think we ought to move in that direction.
I don't want to commit to that or some number between where we are and there at this point but we will evaluate that with an idea that it's appropriate to increase our dividend over the foreseeable future.
Our next question is from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at loan growth a little bit.
You obviously had very good C&amp;I growth and it looks like it was driven a lot by lending to mortgage companies.
Could you just talk about the sustainability of that? I mean is that 1 quarter thing? Or is that something that at least for the foreseeable future might continue to improve? Ken it's BJ.
It continued to be pretty strong as the environment for mortgage refi and particularly the long-end rates have stayed low and are guided by the Fed to continue to stay low.
So that business is always going to perform very well in an environment like this one and we have continued to see that.
So we think it could continue to stay elevated.
I think it ended the quarter at maybe $1.6 billion or so in outstandings.
We think over the next several quarters it could be in the $1 billion to $1.6 billion range.
So we continue to think it's going to be very strong.
In a "normalized environment " which we don't think for this business will be for quite some time it could maybe go down more into the $500 million to $750 million range.
But for right now we think for the foreseeable future it will stay pretty elevated and pretty strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then just one on the expenses.
With the $1 billion target by year-end just want to make sure I fully understand that given that you had also mentioned -- I think you said $10 million of additional or higher restructuring costs in fourth quarter higher -- or I guess elevated legal expenses as well.
When we look at fourth quarter we're not -- we shouldn't expect a $250 million expense number.
Is that correct? Or how are you thinking about reconciling those? Thanks for picking up my hint.
Yes on the -- you may have seen that we've been taking some actions in the quarter to further reduce our cost structure which would obviously be related to employees and employee impacts.
And so therefore as we look at what the impacts might be from a onetime charge perspective on that I was trying to give you an idea that it was going to be around $10 million in the fourth quarter.
Obviously that would not repeat itself at that magnitude going into next year and would obviously result in lower run rate costs as we take those costs out of the run rate into 2013.
Our next question is from Todd Hagerman of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to kind of follow up -- or a couple of things in terms of both expenses and credit.
First in terms of credit Bryan I noticed that OREO stayed pretty -- has been pretty steady if you will last couple of quarters.
And you referenced in the slide deck about expectations for lower environmental costs.
Can you just kind of put some perspective around that particularly as we think about elevated litigation expense? Yes if you don't mind I'll let Greg pick that one up.
Todd this is Greg Jardine.
On the OREO end of it we have seen OREO decline.
You saw it go up slightly from last quarter to this quarter.
That was driven by I think the -- our Nationstar portfolio as the shadow inventory starts to work through the process.
We don't -- at this point in time we do not see some significant issues there.
It's just maybe more of a near-term situation but there's not a significant issue that we're aware of right now.
Research Division</strong> Does it -- and then how -- with that though when you talk about the efficiencies going into the fourth quarter if you will and I guess what my understanding is that the environmental costs will also continue to come down net-net.
How do -- how should I think about that in terms of again kind of this elevated level and the litigation? Just trying to reconcile just the incremental lower costs yet we're still fairly high in terms of some of these inherent costs.
From a credit standpoint? Research Division</strong> Yes from a credit and litigation.
I'm just trying to reconcile the 2.
Yes.
So I would expect as we continue to see the portfolios heal that you would -- that the environmental expenses in the portfolios also decrease.
That would include litigation expense but decrease as the portfolios continue to heal.
And on the whole as the mix of that ORE portfolio has changed it's gotten more -- the stickier pieces of it tend to be land-oriented where the maintenance costs and the environmental costs tend to be a little bit lower than they do on physical structures and things of that nature.
Then I think the other thing that when you -- the reference to legal costs all of that is not associated with ORE and the loan portfolio.
And as BJ pointed out the litigation around FHA (sic) [FHFA] and things like that as that ramps up you will see additional or somewhat higher legal costs associated with that.
But if you wrap all of that together back to sort of our suggestion that we're going to be at the $1 billion run rate by the end of this year as we move into 2013 that's incorporated into our estimation.
Our next question is from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a little bit about the share buyback and how you see that evolving.
I imagine you are pleased with what you've done so far.
And just given the fact the stock's a little higher does your -- do cash dividends become an alternative in the future? Chris this is Bryan.
We've got the authorization and we'll continue to be opportunistic and pick our spots.
We didn't buy as much in the third quarter because it was moving pretty fast on us.
And -- but we think it's still a relative good value.
We think there are opportunities -- we'll see opportunities to pick our spots and buy our remaining authorization.
As I hinted earlier I think it's appropriate for us management and the board to consider working with our regulators to evaluate the dividend.
I think the dividend is an important element of any capital repatriation strategy.
I think it's important in particular for the banking industry to have both tools at its disposal given the -- it's not -- I guess it's not a hard cap but a presumptive cap around a 30% payout ratio.
So we'll work in -- at the appropriate time and appropriate way to use both the dividend and the buyback to get capital back in our shareholders' hands that we can't deploy effectively in the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Just a follow-up for BJ.
I noticed the roughly $7 million sort of legal charge that was obviously less than last quarter.
What's the likelihood that we'd see small amounts like that in the future? Or is that something that may go away? That was related to a settlement where we actually had a litigation reserve that we had booked.
So it has been on the low end of the range as we should according to accounting guidelines and policies.
And we decided in the quarter that based on negotiations we should settle at a somewhat higher range.
So that $6.6 million that you saw is both the incremental charge above what we had in the reserve -- litigation reserve for that specific suit as well as some attorneys' fees.
And so going forward yes that could occur as we settle suits over time depending on what kind of reserve we have how quickly the settlement discussions come all those types of things.
This is Bryan.
I'll add to BJ and maybe change the word a little bit.
It is certain we're going to have some of that given the -- as we continue to wind down these.
We don't think it's material.
We don't think it's going to greatly impact from quarter-to-quarter.
But we're going to have those things that get settled.
I think it would -- we're working through it in a very deliberate and appropriate way.
We're evaluating on a case-by-case basis.
We're not rushing through resolving these things.
And this is a settlement that we think -- we thought made sense given the context and the evolution of the discussions in the suit.
And we'll continue to do that as appropriate.
Our next question is from Mike Turner of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the capital markets revenues how was September the month of September versus July and August on a daily basis? It's BJ.
It was roughly in line with what we saw.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your guidance is sort of the low end of that $1 million to $1.5 million per day sort of your normalized range? Yes that's kind of where we see it right now for the next several quarters.
With rates where they are what we're seeing is our clients are reinvesting a lot of cash flow which is appropriate and they're trying to really pick their spots on -- we'll see much higher buying on certain days versus others depending on whether rates are spiking that day or not.
They're really trying to be very precise on -- at what levels they're buying.
So we continue to see the business grinded out at the lower end of that range.
But as you can see by performance this quarter even at those types of ranges it's a very profitable business.
And we continue to be pleased with the performance out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then what's a normal tax rate that we should assume going forward? Yes.
That one has been bouncing around quite a bit.
Here's how I would just simply look at it and it's going to vary.
But I would just look at what you think our pretax income is going to be multiply that by something around 38% for an incremental tax rate.
And then we have roughly on average $7 million a quarter of permanent tax credits.
So I would deduct $7 million a quarter from that first calculation and that should be a pretty good estimate of taxes.
Our next question is from Kevin Reynolds of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But Bryan I wanted to sort of ask you something conceptually.
It seems to me that if you guys have gotten it right that the agency mortgage -- that reserve build is sort of behind you the private label statute of limitation seems like it might be coming to an end.
As you said time is on your side there so that' starting to become an issue that's behind you.
This consumer charge-off that happened this quarter is behind you and there's likely to be some degree of recovery of a portion of that going forward.
So if these big issues that have been weighing on you are behind you what does that mean 2013 looks like for you just from an operating? I know it's a difficult environment.
It's not going to be easy.
But does that mean that 2013 actually could be a good year where you could actually get back to just doing the banking the blocking and tackling of banking? Yes.
Kevin thank you.
Look I think I'm encouraged about our prospects in 2013.
I think we have an awful lot of momentum in the organization.
And all of the moving parts and things that you talked about related to the nonstrategic businesses which have driven the vast majority of that even in the last year from third quarter of 2011 to third quarter of this year we've had very strong loan growth and customer activity customer acquisition.
We've deepened relationships with existing customers.
Deposit trends have been good.
And I look at the execution that we've had in our 2 core businesses banking and capital markets and I see a tremendous amount of momentum.
And as those nonstrategic issues or wind-down continues to fall away I think that you see greater and greater the core drivers of results are coming to the surface.
As BJ pointed out on that Slide 15 the returns in that business are very strong close to a 12% ROE and over a 1% ROA with a lot of momentum.
So I'm very encouraged about where I think we can go in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I -- you may have addressed this.
I think you addressed it in part a little earlier I think to Paul's question about borrowers' activity going into the election and all and the fiscal cliff.
But do you get the sense that borrowers prefer one outcome over another? Or do they just prefer knowing what the next card on top of the deck is so that they can act accordingly with respect to the elections? Well I would guess most of them have a preferred outcome but I don't know what it is.
That said I think everybody me included would -- just give us what we're going to be dealing with and we'll figure out how to deal with it.
So I think that certainty is probably more important than anything and it's -- as somebody who's looking in from the outside it's hard to see how the election outcome really changes the big balance of power in D.C.
We've still got some big tough issues that we've got to deal with.
It's going to take folks working together.
And if we can get people working together and give some certainty I think that's a net positive for the economy.
And I think most people if you just gave them the road map they'd figure out how to deal with it.
And I think that would be good for all of us.
Our next question is from Dave Bishop of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> BJ you alluded to in the preamble some offset in terms of the margin pressure related to seasonality in terms of loan fees.
Just curious what that relates to.
And I don't know if you have the exact negative drag from that impact.
Yes.
I don't.
If you really need it you can follow up with Aarti after the call.
But there was a modest impact in terms of the quarter.
The larger headwind is as you might imagine the reinvestment rate in the securities portfolio.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then another housekeeping item.
I noticed the -- a little outsized impact in terms of the increase in occupancy expenses this quarter.
I think we saw that last third quarter.
Anything seasonality involved in that? David it's Aarti.
It was actually a reduction in some sort of rental income we had in one of our buildings.
We can get it to you later.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's more of a onetime catch-up from second quarter levels.
Yes.
Our next question is from Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to do a quick follow-up on the mortgage warehouse lending piece of it.
Is -- you said it was going to be strong.
Do you think it stays at this current $1.6 billion level? Or do you think that this sort of environment can generate growth on that line item? Jeff this is Bryan.
We think given what's going on and with the refinance activity because of low rates and we think with the -- you couple that with what may be the positive signs of a turn in the housing recovery that we can -- coupled with the fact that we're trying to broaden and deepen relationships with existing customers we think that we can stay at this level and there might be some upside to it.
As BJ highlighted earlier in response to a question there's always a likelihood of volatility in terms of what those balances may drift up or drift down.
But it's a business that we know well we're comfortable with.
We think our team does a fantastic job in that space and we think we have additional opportunity to stay strong and maybe even grow it a little bit.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And for my follow-up I wanted to go into the specifics of the mortgage income quarter.
You had the much greater net hedging results but you also had the $4 million negative swing in the mortgage warehouse valuation.
Can you talk about that $4 million negative swing and I guess how that occurs? What's the driver there? And do these things offset each other next quarter and we stay around this $10 million $11 million range if we have the same originations? Or should we -- was there some sort of onetime valuation adjustment that seemed outsized? No.
Yes Jefferson I'd expect it to stay roughly in the range you've seen this quarter.
There's nothing really magic that we saw in terms of income.
Net hedge results were up modestly but we think that it'll stay in the mid- to high single-digit range.
That's kind of where we see it based on the rate environment we've got and the mix of what we've got.
The valuation adjustment is going to -- it's going to depend every quarter on prepaid speeds and as well as credit.
This one was a little bit more related to prepaid speeds.
But it's not going to vary materially we don't believe in future quarters.
Our next question is from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bryan I want to ask you about the -- when we look at the bonefish and the ratios are all like you're saying lining up with the long-term targets the only one that still kind of stands out is the efficiency ratio in the core operations.
If we look at that and kind of apply that over to the bank it really requires the bank the core banking regional banking group to get down probably meaningfully below 60%.
The $50 million are adding an incremental efficiency.
Is that kind of moving from the bank? And what are the key things you're working on to get the bank efficiency ratio lower? Thanks.
The -- I guess I want to make sure we're mindful of the 2 parts here because there is a revenue part of this in getting that efficiency ratio right.
And BJ commented earlier on asset sensitivity.
I don't know if it's in this deck.
I know we have it in our supplement that we file on a quarterly basis our earnings -- our analyst packet.
We're -- a 200-basis-point increase which doesn't take rates all that high to 2.25% on the short end of the curve is about $70-plus million of net interest income to us so that accretes largely to the bank as well.
That said we are working on the expense side.
And the $50 million of incremental expenses that we've talked about here are largely targeted to come out of the ongoing operations of the organization.
We've taken a number of steps.
BJ referenced some steps we've got in place to try to reduce our cost structure.
And we look at our business and recognize that the nature of banking and how customers want to bank how we bank it really puts a lot of things into play.
We're working very aggressively to one recognize how customers' attitudes and means of banking are shifting that we adapt to that.
We invest in the right technologies.
We deal with the right size and structure of our branches.
And that we look for efficiency opportunities in the way we process information and technology.
So net-net I think you're generally right when you say that we need to be less than a 60% overhead efficiency ratio in the bank.
I do think that we get there on both sides of the equation.
We'll continue to reduce some costs but we will see some revenue offset just from asset sensitivity and we'll get there with some growth because we can handle the additional leverage that we have from incremental assets.
But cost is in our view a key lever or driver for us.
It's a key lever and driver for the industry.
And there's a lot of moving parts in terms of how the industry is changing.
And we're going to be very active in trying to become more efficient effective in the way we do business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And BJ if we look at the nonstrategic part of the business segments that lost about $22 million this quarter if we take out the bankruptcy how close to breakeven would we have been? We are getting pretty close to breakeven on a pretax perspective from nonstrategic.
And you should see it that way going into future years.
So we're getting to the point where we can largely offset it.
On a pretax pre-provision basis I think we're actually positive.
So we're getting to the point and try to manage that as well as we can to at least have a very modest impact on the income statement.
Our last question is from Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to take it a bit farther on expenses.
You kind of walked us through the steps before of kind of where the $139 million saving plan gets you.
You have an incremental $50 million next year into -- by the fourth quarter of 2013.
I think you guys also had some kind of pension expenses that were rolling off.
Could you help us understand kind of how that fits into that picture? And just kind of when we could expect to see those legging in? And just how they fit into those expense savings plans? Sure.
If you remember correctly and we don't -- we're not counting the pension-related reductions that we'll see in 2013 necessarily for the $50 million.
But we do expect to see roughly $35 million of -- $30 million to $35 million reduction from 2012 to 2013 for pension-related expenses.
And again it's because our pension will freeze on December 31 of this year.
So the expenses related to it will decline substantially.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should be thinking about that as incremental to that $50 million and even potentially kind of pushing you down below the $950 million level.
You should think of it as incremental to the $50 million yes.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Bryan Jordan for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you again for joining the call this morning.
Please let us know if you have any additional follow-up questions and need additional information.
I hope everyone has a great day and a great weekend as well.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thanks for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Ms.
Aarti Bowman.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and in our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement material and in the slide presentation for this call and it is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
2012 marked another year of progress for First Horizon as we continued to successfully execute on our strategic priorities.
We grew regional bank loans and deposits improving our balance sheet and business mix.
We reduced expenses achieving near-term productivity and efficiency goals.
And we made significant progress in winding down the nonstrategic segment reducing its future earnings drag.
We also stepped up our return of capital to shareholders repurchasing $131 million of common stock in 2012 versus $44 million in 2011.
I'm pleased with our accomplishments in 2012.
Year-over-year the regional bank's pre-provision net revenue rose about 7% driven by a 6% increase in net interest income.
Our bankers' focus on service resulted in positive balance sheet trend as we deepened customer relationships.
Year-over-year average core deposits were up 11% in the regional bank.
The bank increased average loans 10% from 2011 driven by 12% growth in the C&amp;I portfolio.
The regional bank's net interest spread remained relatively stable at 353 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2012 down 3 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Loan growth in the bank offset a 17% decline in the nonstrategic portfolio resulting in the year-over-year increase of 2% in consolidated period-end loans.
Our other core business capital markets also achieved solid performance continuing to provide a strong source of fee income producing a higher rate a high return on capital and a full year 2012 ROA of 2.5%.
Full year revenues declined slightly due to lower fixed income activity.
Over the past year we've continued to selectively add to our sales and trading team and to expand our product offerings and are well positioned at FTN Financial.
Turning to consolidated expenses.
We focused on improving productivity and efficiency throughout the year.
We focused on all aspects of our call space.
The regional bank's revenue per FTE increased 9% from 2011's level.
We implemented $137 million of our $139 million targeted consolidated efficiency initiatives.
We also met our goal of reducing our annual run rate of consolidated expenses to $1 billion by the end of 2012.
Fourth quarter expenses were $253 million excluding approximately $19 million of restructuring charges.
We're putting the legacy issues behind us.
As you recall in the second quarter we took a $250 million charge to cover projected losses for GSE-related repurchase requests.
We had no repurchase provision in either the third or the fourth quarter.
As BJ will discuss in a couple of minutes mortgage repurchase trends were positive at year end.
Asset quality trends continued to improve year-over-year as well.
Year-over-year nonperforming assets decreased 20% and net charge-offs declined 43%.
Our allowance to loans was at 166 basis points at year end down 68 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2011 reflecting overall improvement in our loan portfolios.
We are well positioned with our core businesses.
We have a strong market share in our regional banking franchise First Tennessee and our capital markets business FTN Financial.
The strength of these businesses and the steps that we have taken over the past few years have positioned us well for further improvement in our returns for shareholders.
In summary 2012 -- in 2012 First Horizon made good headway towards achieving our long-term profitability targets and building a foundation for quality sustainable long-term performance.
BJ will now take you through the financial results for the quarter and I'll be back for some closing comments.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 6.
Net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter was $41 million compared to $26 million last quarter which translates to a diluted EPS of $0.17 versus $0.10 in the third quarter.
We do have some significant items I would highlight that largely netted themselves out.
As we have previously communicated we had $19 million of restructuring repositioning and efficiency charges mostly related to severance from our voluntary separation program.
We also had about a $5 million or so write-down of an equity investment in our nonstrategic segment and we got a loss accrual related to pending litigation matters of about $4 million.
We also realized in the quarter about $17 million of tax benefits related to decreases and unrecognized tax benefits and a subsidiary liquidation.
If you look on Slide 7 at our consolidated financial results linked quarter total revenues excluding the securities losses were down about 5% with regional banking revenues up slightly and capital markets revenues down.
Total expenses were down 13% on a linked quarter basis.
Consolidated net interest margin was 3.09% in the fourth quarter compared to 3.15% in the third.
Positive impacts to the margin this quarter were higher loan volume an uptick in loan fees and lower deposit rates which were offset by lower reinvestment rates in the securities portfolio higher cash balances pressure on yields in commercial lending and changes in the mix of inventory on our capital markets business.
For the full year 2012 our net interest margin declined 9 basis points overall to 3.13% compared to 3.22% in 2011.
Year-over-year decline was mostly from the lower yields in the securities portfolio and were somewhat mitigated by higher loan volumes and a decrease in the deposit rates.
We believe that while we may see fluctuations in net interest margin quarter-to-quarter in 2013 based on our current rate outlook we currently expect margin to close down modestly each quarter through 2013 due to the effect the prolonged low rate environment has on reinvestment rates for longer-term assets.
Slide 8 shows some highlights for the regional bank.
Linked quarter our pretax income was up 7% revenues rose 1% driven by a 2% gain in net interest income.
Total fees were flat from last quarter but we did have higher NSF cash management and bank card and brokerage fees which offset a decline in mortgage banking debit card and insurance fees.
Expenses were up about $3 million primarily due to higher advertising expenses from seasonal sponsorships.
Loan loss provision in the fourth quarter was a credit of $1 million compared to $3 million expense in the third quarter.
Turning to balance sheet trends in the regional bank on Slide 9.
Linked quarter average loans were up 1% from growth in both commercial and consumer portfolios.
We did see some growth in consumer lending through the financial centers some modest growth in some C&amp;I areas and continued strength in loans to mortgage companies.
Our total pipeline remains solid and we saw an increase in funding in the fourth quarter.
Year-over-year net commitments for commercial loans in the bank were up 12%.
The average credit ratings of our loan portfolio also improved as lower-rated loans paid off and we replaced them with higher-rated ones.
We expect that the slow-growth environment will make the lending landscape competitive but we believe that we should be able to continue to make profitable high-return loans.
Moving to capital markets where we had another solid quarter.
Pretax income was $19 million in the business in the fourth quarter.
Fixed income average daily revenue was $1.1 million compared to $1.2 million in the third as customers remained cautious due to market conditions.
And as you recall we lost about 2 days of trading due to Hurricane Sandy.
Linked quarter expenses declined 11% from lower variable compensation in the business.
And as Bryan said over the past year in that business we've expanded our product offerings with a particular focus on the municipal product sector where we added sales and trading resources and also launched a public finance initiative.
We made other strategic hires in sales and trading as well further expanding the extent of the distribution platform we have out there in the business.
Turning to expenses on Slide 11.
Excluding restructuring charges of $19 million in the fourth quarter we did reach our year-end 2012 goal of approximately $1 billion of annualized level of consolidated expenses.
We've targeted an additional $50 million of efficiency initiatives to be in the run rate by the end of 2013.
While our voluntary separation program led to severance-related charges in the fourth quarter these actions should be a large contributor to our targeted $50 million of efficiencies in 2013.
We are targeting an annual run rate of less than $950 million by the end of 2013 now.
And we will continue to look for ways to reduce costs without impacting revenues especially if macroeconomic factors are worse than currently anticipated.
Turning to mortgage repurchase trends on Slide 12.
Our fourth quarter trends were very encouraging here.
Mortgage repurchase provision expense was again 0 marking the second consecutive quarter of no provision.
And we still expect that any ongoing GSE-related provision should be immaterial.
Linked quarter the repurchase pipeline declined 25% to $334 million.
New requests decreased by 36% or $113 million and resolutions were up 10%.
Our success rate in the fourth quarter improved as well to 59%.
We have not experienced a change in the nature of the requests from either GSE nor have we seen a recycling into older vintages from Freddie in particular.
As a reminder we originated only a modest amount of about $1 billion of loans to Freddie in 2004 and a similar amount in 2005.
We have not been named in any new lawsuits related to our private securitizations since October 2012 but we did receive one small indemnification request during the quarter.
We had no loan repurchase requests from our first lien private securitizations.
And at this time based on our private securitizations origination mix deal size age and performance we continue to believe that if any lawsuits do occur they should be significantly less than the GSE experience.
Moving on to asset quality on Slide 13.
Trends continued to remain positive.
Our linked quarter provision expense was $15 million compared to the $40 million in the third quarter and net charge-offs declined 75%.
And you'll recall in the third quarter our provision included $30 million of provision and $40 million of charge-offs related to regulatory guidance on consumer loans and discharged bankruptcies.
This quarter $20 million of charge-offs also reflect lower loss estimates for those discharged bankruptcies based on loan level data obtained from new appraisals in the fourth quarter.
And as you can see on Slide 14 NPAs declined 7% from third to fourth quarter.
And for 2013 we expect the credit quality trends to continue to improve albeit at a slower pace.
Wrapping up on Slide 15 with our bonefish.
Our core business trends are good with our core ROA at 114 basis points and core ROTCE at 13.3% in 4Q '12.
We had a lot of significant items that created noise in our consolidated financials in 2012 but the solid returns in our core businesses and our prudent capital management and deployment demonstrate the progress we're making towards our long-term goals.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Bryan.
Thank you BJ.
Our employees' hard work resulted in strategic progress in 2012.
We successfully executed on our priorities of focusing on our higher-return core businesses differentiating our customer service and returning capital to our shareholders.
Revenue growth is likely to remain challenging unless economic improvement is stronger than anticipated.
We are committed to improving productivity and efficiency to help achieve positive operating leverage.
We've already put in motion about a $20 million of the currently planned $50 million of efficiencies for 2013 and we will continue to diligently look for other opportunities to reduce expenses without negatively impacting our revenue-producing capability.
Credit-related costs should remain contained as credit quality gradually improves.
We expect a lessening drag in the nonstrategic business resulting from 2012 actions as well as ongoing rundown in the portfolio.
2013 will be another year where we focus on execution controlling what we can control and continuing to positively transition our company.
Currently we expect the operating environment to be similar to 2012 with modest economic growth slow employment growth and low interest rates.
We will continue to work towards improving profitability and moving closer to achieving our long-term bonefish targets.
Additionally we expect to continue prudently returning capital to our shareholders in 2013.
Thank you to First Horizon's employees for your commitment and hard work.
And with that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start on capital.
Looking at the slide deck the slide on the impact of Tier 1 under Basel III that you provided last quarter wasn't in there this quarter.
Just wondering are you rethinking the 250-basis-point hit to Tier 1 common under Basel III or the timing of recapturing that? Steve this is Bryan and I'll let BJ get into the specific.
We really didn't see a need to put it back in there this quarter.
Nothing has changed to common at period ended and I guess it's under review and advisement with the regulators how it will be impacted.
We don't -- there's nothing about our estimates that would've changed during that period of time or our expectations.
I think as we said last quarter and would reiterate we will react accordingly to whatever set of rules come out around capital and Basel III and we'll manage our balance sheet in accordance with that.
So nothing has really changed about our expectations.
There's no new information.
And so that forecast is largely unchanged from the time we talked about it in the third quarter results.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
On the security portfolio yields which have come down around 15 basis point a quarter through 2012 can you help us think about the pace we should expect in 2013 and maybe how much of that's accelerated premium amortization impacting the decline versus just reinvesting at lower rates? Yes.
Steve it's BJ.
I'll start with the premium amortization question.
We have very modest amount of that so that's not an issue for us at all.
I think we have something like $24 million of premium amortization so it's a very modest amount.
You should expect something probably similar to what you've seen.
We are very heavily agency MBS in our securities portfolio and obviously the reinvestment rates there are very challenging.
So you should expect to see similar declines in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then following from that BJ in terms of your margin outlook should expect pressure sort of 4 or 5 basis points a quarter rather than 2 to 3? How do you think about that? Yes that's possible.
That would fall in my modest category.
Based on our rate outlook and we generally use Blue Chip consensus rate outlook we expect that our margin will continue to come down modestly because of the dynamics in our book.
We have predominantly a floating rate balance sheet.
So we've taken a lot of the pain if you will already over the last couple of years as assets have repriced downward.
So our bankers are doing a really good job as much as we can in the competitive environment to defend yields on commercial loans and get well-priced deals.
But with the securities portfolio and other dynamics it is difficult.
We still believe that we have some modest opportunity to bring down deposit rates not as much as we've had in the past couple of years but some.
And we'll continue to do everything that we can but a lot of it largely relates to what the spread is going to be between short rates and long rates.
Our next question is from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On the loan front I wanted to see if you can give us a little more color on what you're seeing in terms of loan demand and what's driving the growth in the C&amp;I book.
And then separately also on the loan front can you just talk a little bit about the expected pace of the run-off in coming quarters of the nonstrategic book and how you view that changing? John this is Bryan.
I'll start and then I'll let Susan sort of pick up at a detailed level on what we're seeing.
We actually saw a pretty good demand in the fourth quarter.
Now we actually were a little pleasantly surprised that in particularly December it looks like we had less than insignificant amount of loan activities driven by proposed tax law changes.
So we have pretty good demand.
The pipeline because we had such good closings in the fourth quarter is down a little bit in the first quarter of this year or going into the first quarter of this year.
It seasonally does that every year so we're not terribly surprised at that.
From an economic perspective we think the economy continues to move forward at a modest pace.
We think our calling efforts have been very successful and are paying off very well with the kinds of opportunities that we're getting.
As BJ just said a couple of minutes ago our bankers have done a fantastic job in competing in a difficult environment trying to maintain attractive spreads and attractive structures.
So I feel good about that.
But it is a slow economy.
With respect to the wind-down of the nonstrategic portfolio we -- I don't see anything any different there.
I think the CPR on the home equity was about 19% in the fourth quarter.
It's been running between 15% and 20% so I'd expect that that portfolio will continue to run off in the 15% to 20% range in 2013.
I guess one of the mathematical realities of it is it's a smaller percentage of our loan portfolio today than it was a year ago so it will have less impact on our loan growth percentages.
And as I pointed out earlier we produced about 2% loan growth even with that in 2012.
So I feel good about that momentum.
Susan any comments you want to make about the marketplace? We -- our bankers are saying that they feel like 2013 will feel much like 2012 in terms of competition in terms of opportunity.
We do a great job of bidding business new opportunities with existing customers and also bringing in new prospects.
So the outlook really is that we'll do everything we can to bring in that new business but we do realize that the competitive environment will continue to be a strong one.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my follow-up on the capital deployment front.
Can you just Bryan talk a little bit about your thoughts around buybacks? I know you're going through the process now in terms of determining what you're going to do but can you give us a little color on how you're thinking about the pace of buybacks for '13 and then any other deployment opportunity? Yes.
We -- as we've pointed out reasonably I guess consistently for a while we feel good about our strong capital position.
Our balance sheet is in a $25 billion plus or minus area.
We're generating strong returns.
We think we're putting the mortgage repurchase behind us with the actions we took in the second quarter.
So we still feel good about our ability to return capital to shareholders.
We will and have worked with our regulators in the past and we'll work with them in the future to manage through that.
Buyback is one important element of it.
The dividend is another element.
We think depending on where you are in terms of pricing at any one point in time stock price at any one point in time that changes the various elements of buyback versus the dividend.
Over the course of the last 15 months we bought back about $175 million worth of stock.
I think the average price was $8.50 something and that's very attractive to us.
We'll continue -- we think it's an attractive price and we'll continue to buy our stock when we have the opportunity.
I think it's appropriate for us in 2013 to evaluate the mix of dividend and buyback.
And so it's the long way of saying we ought to look at the rate of dividend that we pay and I would expect that we would have an eye towards increasing that dividend over time.
So we'll continue to make sure we're smart with the way we manage this capital.
We'll continue to do it in the context of prudent balance sheet management prudent risk management taking all of our various risks and opportunities into context.
But we think there's a fair amount of capital that we can return to shareholders in 2013 2014.
Our next question is from Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think I may have missed it in the beginning but how much is left on your current buyback authorization? About $25 million.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And I want to ask you a kind of FASB accounting question on the reserving.
And I guess the head of the FASB said that the new reserve rules could possibly move up reserves by 50%.
Have you looked at these rules yet? Do you think the banks in general or you specifically will result in increased provisions up until the adoption of these rules? Or do you think it's kind of a one-time true-up if these rules were to be adopted now? You're trying to get me on a technical accounting question.
I don't think that it's clear yet how they're going to make it -- make us do it whether it comes through the P&amp;L as charges either over time or at one time or whether it's just a charge through equity.
So I don't think that it's clear yet.
I do think it's clear that they have a lot of work to do with the industry with investors to make sure that it's done appropriately because you don't want to have a situation where it's prohibitive for a bank to make a loan because of the reserve you have to set up Day 1.
That just doesn't make a lot of sense.
So I do think more work needs to be done.
I know there's a lot of activity in terms of comments back to them.
And I'm sure we'll get to the right decision over time.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick one on the mortgage warehouse business.
From what you're seeing the trends that you're seeing do you think that's a -- that the loan balances there will be stable or up some more for some period of time? Or do you think we've reached the peak? I think that that business has continued to be strong.
And we believe that it continued to have strength with mortgage rates as low as they are.
About 70% of the business right now is refi.
And so if that starts to slow you could see it start to come down.
But on the flip side there is talk about continued housing recovery which would help in the purchase money market which the business is well-positioned for as well.
So we like the balance in the business.
We love how it's managed.
And so we see continued strength at least in the near term.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
This is Bob Plausit [ph] from Matt's team.
Just given your outlook for the NIM from here I was just curious if any thoughts on how we should be thinking about how this translates to net interest income dollars.
Do you think you could actually grow loans enough to be able to post positive net interest income growth from here or should we kind of expect continued flattish trends? That'll be challenging.
We're going to try to defend our balance sheet as well as we can and we see good growth on the loan side as we've talked about in our regional bank.
But we do -- it'll be challenging to grow the balance sheet meaningfully with the run-off.
Like we talked about we are defending our yields on our lending as well as we can.
And so we'll just have to see.
But we -- our people fight for every dollar of net interest income that we should so -- but it's going to be challenging in this environment to do that so we'll do the best we can.
Bob this is Bryan.
I'll add to BJ.
Structurally the change that our balance sheet goes through we face the same cyclical pressures in NIM by debts [ph]  in the securities portfolio and in the fixed rate loans in the loan portfolios.
And then deposit pricing is what it is.
We saw a little bit of improvement over the course of the year and we'll continue to manage all of those with an eye towards how we produce the greatest profitability.
Structurally speaking though as we have run-off in the national portfolio that tends to be lower spread lower margin on the whole in the loans that we're booking in the loan portfolio.
So that should offset some of the cyclical pressure that we have on the balance sheet.
And as BJ said it's hard to sit here today and say what interest rates and what the curve might look like over the course of the next year.
But we've been very focused on how we manage that margin our spread the new loans that we're putting on the balance sheet the relationships and how we price those.
And we've had some degree of success and we'll continue to focus on how we manage through that in what's an otherwise little bit difficult operating environment for the industry.
Just switching gears a bit in terms of your capital markets business what should we expect in terms of revenues from here? Are you guys still in that kind of $1 million to $1.5 million daily revenue range? Or -- and then also just in 1Q should we expect a seasonal uptick versus 4Q? I think we've said for a couple of months now that we expect the business to remain strong but probably in the lower end of that range.
We saw $1.1 million this quarter $1.2 million last quarter.
As you all well know reinvestment rates as we've just talked about several times for our company it's the same for any of our community banks or others that we serve through our capital markets business.
So it's very challenging.
So our business since it's so diverse and we deal with so many capital relationships we can continue to do a great job keeping that type of average daily revenue going and we expect it to do that but probably towards the lower end of that range.
Our next question is from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question in terms of mortgage banking I guess we've had 2 quarters of kind of tough results part of that looks like it's been driven by the warehouse valuation adjustments.
Can you just remind us about how that volatility or those if the negative item last couple of quarters is calculated? Or where's that driven off of and is there any reason to think that results are more sustainable at this level versus something a little bit higher? It's BJ.
I'd probably say that closed sustainability is more towards this level.
If you look we do break out in our financial supplement and mortgage valuation line item in our mortgage results.
And you'll see I think this quarter it was 1.7 or 1.8 adjustment.
It can go either way.
So that's relatively modest.
But what's going on right now is in our net hedging results related to our MSR book we've largely tried to make that a neutral hedge and we're able to make money on the hedging results would really be on CRE.
And what's going on right now in this rate environment is that the CRE on those hedge assets is lower and it continued to come in.
So I think we're doing a good job managing that MSR asset for low volatility.
But you should expect that it will have modest hedge results more in line with what you've seen maybe the last couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then just one final question on -- in terms of the put back provision or the lack of put back provision can you just remind us like what are you doing -- are you doing anything differently than some of the larger banks have had that posted put back cost this quarter? Because I guess the GSEs are looking at the earlier advantages.
Like what do you do differently? Why might your results have been different from theirs? We've been pretty consistent over time trying to have a healthy relationship I'll call it with both where we certainly look at every loan we push back where we need to and we repurchase where we need to.
So I don't think that anything's changed there.
I do think in the industry you've seen a few that I've talked about Freddie recycling back into '04 and '05 vintages.
We haven't seen any of that.
And as I said in my initial comments we did a very modest amount of business with Freddie in those vintages only about $1 billion or so of originations in each of the years.
So we're just not seeing a lot of the dynamics that others are and we expect that to continue and our trends to continue to be positive.
Our next question is from Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if you addressed this but we saw some pretty strong growth on the C&amp;I front on a lot of different regional banks some of them in the Midwest.
What did you see there? Are you seeing pipelines starting to open up? Are you seeing a lot more interest on that front in your markets? Go ahead BJ.
Yes I would say -- I would kind of echo what Susan said a couple of questions ago which is the sentiment from our bankers is that 2013 looks much like 2012.
There's some demand but not a lot.
It's more taking market share than it is purchasing a lot of new equipment or business expansion per se.
There's certainly pockets of that in different areas but I wouldn't say that the loan demand is starting to pick up.
Research Division</strong> And what about -- and did you address loan pricing? I mean it's a tough environment for everything but outside of competitive yields what about the underwriting? Is the underwriting holding up in the market? Paul we're -- this is Susan.
We are seeing some underwriting CRE.
We're being very selective on the new opportunities that we choose to bring in.
But we are seeing it in certain segments we're seeing some deterioration in the CRE world as it relates to guarantor requirements debt run equity et cetera.
So we're seeing some of it and we're just being very selective and prudent in what we choose to bring on the balance sheet.
That's a continuation of a trend over a period of time and it doesn't seem to be abating an awful lot right now still a pretty competitive environment for every deal that's out there.
As I said a little bit earlier Paul the pipelines were off a little bit seasonally in the first quarter last year.
They are again this year but they seem to be pretty steady.
We feel good about the trends and call in efforts.
We feel good about the relationships that we're calling on and winning.
And as I mentioned earlier fourth quarter closings were pretty good and there's some positive strength in December.
Some of it driven by tax transactions by customers.
So we feel pretty good about the momentum.
But it is an economy that's growing a GDP growth that seems to still be fairly modest by all the measures and people's expectations for 2013.
Our next question is from Kevin Fitzsimmons of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions guys.
First on the buyback I know it's been asked a couple of times.
In terms of the timing of when you may think we might hear of your next step on that front are you guys limited or constricted by the timing of the CCAR for the large banks? In other words does your yield primary regulator maybe want to -- or maybe you guys all feel it's prudent to wait to see how that all flushes out before you put a request in.
Just trying to get a timing of -- if that's a big lever that you guys have in your control trying to gauge when the investment community might hear about it? This is Bryan.
The CCAR process -- and I don't know that I even know if this is a basis [ph] generally this March April time frame.
We're not a participant in that process and it has not been a driver of the decisioning that our regulators that we've had in the past.
And so it won't be in 2013 either.
We will start the stress testing process later this year in connection with all the banks over greater than $10 billion.
I'm not sure what all of that means in terms of decisioning process from late 2013 forward.
But any actions in early 2013 on to the end of the year don't seem to be constrained to a calendar in terms of what may be going on with the larger banks.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
I know you've talked about continuing to look to trim expenses and it seems like -- my question is how do you guys feel in 2013 about producing positive operating leverage because it seems like it's pretty tough on the revenue front.
We have a lower base in capital markets revenues whether that bounces back up or not we'll see; spread revenues seems like it's going to be a challenge given what BJ said on the margin and loan growth is pretty modest.
So even though you're saying you're going to cut the expenses down to $950 million do you feel -- if we continue in this environment that at some point do you feel you have to look at trimming it even more just to get that positive operating leverage? Kevin this is Bryan again.
The expense focus that we've had is -- it changes from year to year based on what area we're focused on.
The long and short of it is we've got to be focused on all aspects of our business all the time.
Customer behaviors are changing the way customers use branches the way customers use technology the amount of paper that we process in the business and our operations function.
All of that changes and so we continue to iterate our cost structure and we'll continue to do that.
We think that rightly or wrongly that controlling cost for us and for the industry for that matter is likely to not be off the radar screen for a long time.
We've got to focus on how we get more efficient and produce more revenue by spending less.
And so we're going to be focused on that.
As BJ said we feel good about where we got to at the end of the year.
We hit the sort of the $1 billion range that we had talked about going into 2013.
We feel good about the progress we're making on the $50 million that we've identified and are working on now.
A fair amount of that as I mentioned earlier is put into place with some of the voluntary separation program.
And we'll continue to focus on controlling our cost and being smart with every dollar.
So that's a long way of saying yes I think it's important.
I think there will be other opportunities.
I can't sit here today and tell you what they are but I can tell you that we're going to be focused on trying to control our costs and doing it in a way that doesn't impact our ability to serve our customers and produce revenue.
We're trying to be very very thoughtful about it and do it in a way that doesn't impact our top line business but allows us to drive greater operating leverage as you suggested to our shareholders.
Our next question is from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
This is actually Nick Karzon standing in for Craig this morning.
I guess first on the charge-off level can you give us an idea of the magnitude of the impact from the lower loss estimate from the discharge bankruptcies that -- on the 4Q charge-off level? Yes Nick as you know in the third quarter we took an estimate for that bankruptcy charge-off using the home price indexes.
In the fourth quarter we were able to get actual appraisals loan by loan data and it's approximately a $7 million to $9 million adjustment over what we did -- had in third quarter positive.
And then I guess the second question just on the expense and kind of the $950 million run rate guidance.
I guess previously with I thought of that as kind of the $1 billion less roughly kind of a $30 million lower pension cost less the $50 million from efficiency savings.
Can you kind of give us -- give me a little bit more color on kind of how we should think about that or if the pension savings is still there or included in the $950 million? Nick this is Bryan.
The pension savings will still be there.
That plan is now closed.
We'll probably -- what I said in the past is with $50 million I hope that we can realize half of that in the run rate for this year we would target to see our expenses in the $950 million or less range for the year.
And as I said to Kevin's question earlier expense focus is an important part of our business and it's an important part of the industry right now and we'll continue to work on it.
But your math is generally correct in the sense that you've got to factor in the impact of pension cost reduction in addition to any cost-saving initiatives that we put in place.
Our next question is from Mike Turner of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on the comps somewhat can you remind us or tell us how much sensitivity there is in comp to changes in capital markets revenues? Yes a good rule of thumb is maybe 40%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just confirming earlier comments on the buybacks it sounds like you're not calendar constrained.
So does that mean you can essentially request increases of the buyback or dividend at any time? This is Bryan.
That's the way it is operated in the past and I don't expect that to be any different.
As I mentioned the one caveat that to be anything that might change around stress testing as the greater than $10 billion organizations take it out.
But as we've done in the past I would expect that we would continue to work with our regulators in measurable and meaningful -- but meaningful steps to repatriate capital and take this thing in a consistent and steady fashion.
And so I don't think that will be driven by the calendar so much.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last what should we assume for a tax rate this year? I don't know that's a tough one to model.
What I would just assume is take our pretax income whatever you have for that multiplied by 38% or so and then we normally have about $7 million to $8 million of permanent tax credits every quarter.
And so I would just kind of put those 2 numbers together.
Our next question is from Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just moving back to the capital markets business.
I guess there's a couple of questions about the outlook there I know it's been sounded a little bit just the backup with rates that we've seen through the first part of this year has that been a benefit to the business and started to drive pickup in activity at all? And then the follow on to that would be if we think about the longer-term picture from that business you have some strategists this year talking about starting to see rotation from fixed income into equities and is that a potential catalyst as well as some of your clients start to get a little bit more proactive with their portfolios? Hey it's BJ.
You'll see different types of activities in the business literally everyday depending on were the rates backed up that day or what the news flow is et cetera.
So if we average $1.1 million sometimes we'll have days that are more -- that are closer to $2 million and sometimes days that are closer to $500 000 or $600 000 a day.
So it really depends on day to day.
But we do think that it's largely on average in that lower end of that $1.2 million $1.5 million range.
The dynamics that you're talking about could particularly backup and rates could help.
But a lot of community banks as well as the larger banks frankly are still dealing with Dodd-Frank and what's going to happen with OTTI and what's going to happen with how you account for your securities portfolio in terms of which buckets you put it in.
So there's still a lot of uncertainty out there.
And combined with low rates and not wanting to extend too much on the curve it makes for very cautious buying across all of our depositories in particular.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I know historically you guys have said depositories are about 60% of the fixed income business.
Is that -- does that continue to hold true? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then what -- just one quick one on the legal reserve of this quarter the $4 million $5 million was that for an existing litigation or was that for something new this quarter? It's existing litigation.
Our next question is from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a set of questions.
One is the pension benefit that you get going into 2013 does it all come in the first quarter or does it kind of stair step its way? Can you kind of quantify that for us? No it pretty much happens in the first quarter.
So if you're looking at year-over-year comps it'll come in starting in the first quarter because what's happening is when the pension plan closes essentially the amortization if you will goes from being average service life to average natural life of the participant.
So it just lengthens out the amortization.
So you should see an immediate drop in the first quarter and then stay at those types of levels over the next several quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> And can you size that up for us? Was it in the $13 million kind of range am I remembering that right? I think we expect $30 million to $35 million year-to-year.
So roughly equal amounts over the 4 quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so $8 million to $9 million per quarter so I was a little bit higher than the $10 million.
Okay.
And then as you looked at this adjustment on the bankruptcies that we talked about being $7 million to $9 million and I look at graph on Page 13 you would then expect to see the $20 million worth of net charge-offs next quarter move higher with some I guess netting if there's further improvement.
But this $7 million to $9 million adjustment would be temporary not permanent right? That's correct Marty.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's kind of where you have that kind of box the 40 leg that you kind of shaded there that it can almost be like $7 million to $9 million positive that pushed the number down this quarter.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then as you see that kind of moving forward what kind of progression or improvement are we seeing in that net charge-off rate have you been going through the year.
It's been going down a couple of million per quarter is that still kind of progressing at the same rate or there's still some pockets where you're seeing some incremental improvement? So Marty really in terms of general direction on charge-offs probably flat in the regional bank and some decline in the nonstrategic.
Our next question is from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow back up on the comment earlier about reserves and allowances going forward.
To the extent that now your charge offs are on a different plane and hopefully continue does that free up just because your coverage is now stronger on a historical loss basis? Sorry Chris could you say that again? LLC Research Division</strong> If you look at the allowance relative to historical losses just for perhaps the last 4 quarters that coverage is getting stronger each quarter.
So is that something that does permit you to rethink of your allowance provisions in future quarters? We haven't -- we look at reserve coverage the same way every quarter.
So it doesn't necessarily change the way that we're looking at it.
We're looking at trends in our portfolios in terms of grade migration on the commercial side and we're looking at lower rates on the consumer side as well as taking into account what we think the future holds for that.
So I would say that the group is using sound judgment and I don't think that it's varying materially from what we've seen in the past.
Susan would you...
I would agree.
There's a lot of moving parts when it comes Chris to looking at those levels of reserves and we've released reserves in diminishing amounts over the last couple of years and there's no expectation that we wouldn't continue to see some reserves free up as credit quality continues to improve going into this year 2013.
We saw very good performance as I mentioned earlier in terms of declining nonperforming loans nonperforming assets credit quality migration was very good across the course of the year.
And so that by in and of itself will drive lower absolute levels of reserve.
You also have to balance that with the accounting requirements and sort of balance with a regulatory view of reserving and then you couple all of that with the question that BJ got earlier with what do reserves look like in a new model -- as the FASBs [ph] laid it out it's sort of hard to say "This is where it will end up " but I think on the whole we should continue to see some degree of reserve release over the course of 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful color.
And just a quick follow up on the capital markets area do you get any more efficiencies there from rethinking overhead or it's purely back in the operating leverage model when revenues come back? This is Bryan again.
That's a business that has very scalable cost for the most part.
There's data information services and some fixed cost that we have.
But that's a business that has been managed historically for very limited fixed cost very strong control of fixed costs.
And so you tend to get the operating leverage on the revenues increasing and you see costs come down when not so it's largely a variable cost delta that you're going to see in that business depending on what that AVR that BJ was talking about earlier does.
Our next question is from Todd Hagerman of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Just Bryan first off just in terms of the underlying profitability of the company.
Obviously you made a lot of progress this year on the expense side in particular you hit your $1 billion goal and reiterated kind of the expectations for '13.
I'm just wondering as I look back at the company what you've done over the last 1 or 2 years in particular the efficiency ratio has moved a couple of percentage points this year obviously the reps and warranties influence the number this year.
But as I look at your bonefish targets and so forth what would be your expectations in terms of as we move past the reps and warranties issue kind of what your targets or kind of what your scorecard looks like potentially in 2013 as I really focus on the ROTCE and efficiency at this point? Yes.
We -- one of the things -- I'm not looking at the slides I can't call a number but there's a chart it's our last or next to last slide in there that talks about our return on tangible common equity in the core businesses.
I think it's important to sort of separate out what's going on in the non-strategics from what's going on in the core.
I feel really really good about the progress that we've made in winding down the non-strategic.
I feel even better about the progress that we've made in our core businesses return and just an equal allocation of our Tier 1 common across these businesses producing a little over 13% ROE in the fourth quarter ROAs are strong and moving towards our bonefish goal.
We have as you suggested done a lot to control expenses and our overhead efficiency ratio improvement in the bank has been good.
Capital market as I said earlier is largely a variable cost base.
All of that said I think we'll make further progress in 2013.
The biggest driver of benefit to us is the lightened asset sensitivity in our balance sheet.
We benefit very significantly from a rising rate environment at the time -- maybe that's a time all was based on the forecasting that the Fed and others have put out there.
But given that we feel good about what we're doing in terms of making incremental progress quarter-to-quarter.
I would say our operating sentiment is let's continue to control what we can control.
Let's do it in a way that doesn't take misappropriated risk on our balance sheet it takes the long view of the cycle that we're in.
Let's do it in a way that we put strong quality relationships on our balance sheet let's take risk that makes sense for the long haul.
And if we do those things we'll make our bonefish targets work and we feel very good about our ability to do that.
So we've taken a very deliberate and thoughtful approach I hope to the way we book business and drive towards our bonefish goals.
And I think we'll continue to make significant progress this year.
Our final question is from Dave Bishop of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question for you in the slide deck in relation to the margin on the regional bank side you mentioned an increase in loan fees during the quarter on the regional bank side.
Is that -- I think you discussed that before sort of maybe one of the fallouts from Basel III due to the capital requirements on unused lines.
Is that -- are those being more well received on the client front what do you see in there in terms of that? Yes.
It's -- this is BJ.
We've started to do that.
But it's still in the early stages.
Once these commitments are coming up for renewal we're having conversations with our clients and as we talked about when we did show the Basel III slides and impacts we're going to have to do that.
I suspect that we won't be the only one in the industry to do it.
I think everybody else would kind of have to do it.
But we're just starting that process.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just a modest increase in short-term liquidity in cash this quarter in terms of the balance sheet any sort of impact there from the expiration of the TAG program or is that any sort of positioning in anticipation of that? Yes.
I think we suspect that there was probably maybe $200 million of balances that were impacted by the TAG.
Much of that actually went to repo.
So it didn't necessarily leave the company.
And it's kind of hard to quantify exactly what came into us because of TAG expiration from other banks.
But the gross amount we think is something like $200 million on our balance sheet impact.
Thank you.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Bryan Jordan.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining our call this morning.
Please let us know if you have any follow-up questions that we can help you with during the course of the day or early next week.
I hope you all have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for this conference call Ms.
Aarti Bowman.
You may begin ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and on our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and on the slide presentation for this call and it is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call.
We're continuing to make progress towards achieving our strategic priorities as demonstrated by first quarter's 42% year-over-year improvement in diluted EPS.
We're positively shifting our business mix reducing the non-strategic portfolio drag significantly lowering expenses and prudently returning capitals to our shareholders.
In the first quarter we repurchased $30 million of common shares resulting in $205 million of total shares repurchased since October 2011.
We also raised our quarterly common dividend to pay out $0.05 per share.
We're taking a closer look at 2 core operating business the regional bank.
The regional bank posted 6% higher pretax income than a year ago benefiting from 6% average loan growth and 4% gain and average core deposits and an 8% drop in expenses.
Total revenue was down only modestly.
Our other core operating business capital markets continues to provide steady fee income and higher returns with fixed income average daily revenues of $1.13 million in the first quarter and an annualized return on assets of approximately 2%.
As anticipated asset quality trends remained favorable.
Year-over-year nonperforming assets decreased 18% and net charge-offs declined 42%.
Our loan portfolios continue to stabilize and improve.
The allowance to loans is 167 basis points down 50 basis points year-over-year but steady versus year end 2012.
Total expenses declined 25% from a year ago.
The improvement was driven by our efficiency efforts lower pension expense and no mortgage repurchase provision.
We are on track to reach our targeted annualized run rate of expenses of approximately $925 million by year end 2013.
As BJ will discuss in a couple of minutes consolidated net interest margin fell short of our expectations in the first quarter.
In our view the interest rate environment is likely to remain challenging for the foreseeable future.
As a result our ability to control cost is essential to improving near-term profitability but we're also committed to cutting costs without impacting our revenue sources.
We're building a platform that will enable us to grow and deepen the customer relationship over the long term.
Over the past couple of years we've hired roughly 25 relationship managers in lines of business such as private client business banking commercial banking CRE commercial real estate lending asset-based lending.
We also recently expanded our business activities in North Carolina South Carolina and Virginia by selectively expanding product and service offerings in these markets.
We've had teams of lenders in those geographies for several years and now plan on building on their success with a stronger focus in those markets.
We're also seeing growth on the retail side.
Fees in our trust services and investment management business were up 9% year-over-year driven by new hires and client referrals in our wealth management area.
Our registered investment advisors FTAS surpassed $1 billion in retail assets during the first quarter and now manages over $3.4 billion in assets reflecting the 35% increase year-over-year.
We're adapting to customer preferences.
We're also best-in-class mobile technology.
We're rethinking our branch network from both a number and a size standpoint as we determine the right delivery channel mix to best serve our customers.
We're upgrading the existing branches through a combination of technology and staff.
And we've recently introduced a new branch prototype that is staffed by universal bankers who are trained to provide a wide range of services so we can differentiate our customer experience while being more productive in the process.
With our efforts in growing our business and the eventual stronger economic recovery we remain confident that we can reach our long-term Bonefish goals.
In summary on Slide 4 we are continuing to make progress and remain optimistic about First Horizon's future.
We're optimizing our business mix to grow selectively and profitably.
We position our balance sheet for sustainable growth.
We're focused on return-oriented business that delivers solid economic profits.
These efforts along with leading market share our strong fee income mix significant asset sensitivity and our meaningful excess capital position us well for higher returns over the long term.
BJ will now take you through the financial details of the quarter and I'll be back for some closing comments.
BJ? Great.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 6.
Net income available to common shareholders for the first quarter was $41 million.
Diluted EPS was $0.17 a share.
Pretax pre-provision net revenue was up significantly both linked quarter and year-over-year as we continue to manage what we can control to improve operating leverage.
Total revenues you'll see we're stable with higher capital markets revenue offsetting lower net interest income.
And expenses were down 11% linked quarter as we continue to see the benefits of our efficiency efforts with salaries down 7% linked quarter and pension expense down significantly as expected.
Loan loss provision was flat to last quarter's level at $15 million as the credit quality continues to be strong and improving.
Moving to segment highlights on Slide 7.
Our core businesses continue to show solid performance.
And as Brian mentioned on the Slide 4 our core businesses delivered a 12.6% return on tangible common equity and a 1.08% ROA for the quarter.
In the regional bank our net income rose 5% on a linked quarter basis.
Revenues in the bank were down 6% driven by a decrease in net interest income and from seasonal declines in NSF fees.
But expenses in the bank also decreased 11% linked quarter driven by our efficiency efforts.
Salary expense was down 4% in the bank and the lower pension expenses there were the most significant drivers again.
In the capital markets business our net income was steady at $12 million.
Fixed income average daily revenues was up slightly at $1.13 million in the quarter compared to $1.09 million in the fourth.
Expenses were up 7% reflecting higher variable comp and a FICO reset that normally occurs in the first quarter.
Net loss in the non-strategic segment narrowed to $10 million in 1Q '13 compared to $15 million in the fourth.
Pretax pre-provision net revenue you'll note was breakeven a milestone that we've been working towards for several quarters.
Revenues were up 30% linked quarter and included a $2.4 million gain related to a LOCOM reversal on a TRUP loan that paid off.
Expenses were down $1 million or 3% even as we added $5 million to our litigation reserve for some existing matters.
As expected our mortgage repurchase provision expense was 0 for the third consecutive quarter and our loan loss provision in the non-strategic segment was relatively flat at $17 million in 1Q '13.
Turning to Slide 8.
As Brian mentioned our net interest income and our NIM was under pressure this quarter.
Our net interest income decreased 5% linked quarter and the margin was lower than anticipated at 2.95% in the quarter compared to 3.09% in the fourth.
There are several moving parts in the results this quarter some of which were expected and some of which were larger than anticipated.
As expected fewer days in the quarter a seasonal decrease in loan fees lower reinvestment rates in the securities portfolio partially offset by continued declines in deposit costs led to about a 4-basis-point decline in aggregate linked quarter for those factors.
Three additional factors totaling about 10 basis points led to the greater-than-expected NIM contraction in the quarter.
First commercial customer deposit inflows which were then held as excess balances at the Fed versus buying securities were much stronger than forecasted resulting in about a 2-basis-point impact on the NIM; second changes in our capital markets inventory hedging versus 4Q resulted in a 3-basis-point reduction; and third lower loan yields mainly driven by a larger-than-expected quarter-to-quarter decrease in loans to mortgage companies led to a 5-basis-point reduction.
As I look at it from a fundamental perspective we continue to believe that we are managing our balance sheet appropriately for the long-term.
If you look at the chart in the upper right it shows our net interest spread our loan yields minus deposit costs declining at a modest rate.
Though competitor pressures continue to drive loan pricing and yields down across the industry we believe our bankers are maintaining good discipline on both price and structure.
The quality of credits we are putting on the books versus what is running off is better though the yield differential is and will be a challenge near-term.
Our pipelines are strong and we're taking share which will serve us well over time.
And our loans to mortgage companies will ebb and flow based on industry mortgage origination volumes and movements in loan rates.
As one of our higher-yielding loan portfolios it may have a meaningful impact quarter-to-quarter on net interest margin or loan growth but the profitability metrics continue to be very attractive.
Over the long-term we continue to be positioned very well for rising rates and our asset sensitivity will drive meaningful revenue over time.
While this positioning may cause pressure in the near-term we do not foresee making significant changes near-term to change our sensitivity profile.
Sitting here today our forecast for the rest of the year calls for a quarterly net interest margin in the range of 2.85% to 2.95%.
Some key underlying assumptions on that range are: No material changes in key macro rate assumptions; continued modest loan yield declines due to competitive pressures; loans to mortgage company balances remaining at roughly 1Q levels; limited incremental securities buying with continued lower reinvestment rates; lower excess balances at the Fed; and similar capital markets inventory dynamics.
In addition we expect our consolidated loan portfolio to remain flat as regional bank loan growth offsets runoff in the non-strategic portfolio.
Turning to Slide 9.
The regional bank balance sheet trends were stable during the first quarter.
Average core deposits were up linked -- 1% linked quarter.
Our average loans were relatively steady where we saw growth in areas like asset-based lending which was up 2% and consumer loans which were up 1% offsets again with loans to mortgage companies declining and we are still seeing elevated levels of loan payoffs.
On a linked quarter basis our net interest spread in the bank declined 7 basis points due to the continued competitive low-interest-rate lending environment.
Our loan pipeline remains solid and was up 33% linked quarter.
Our bankers are making a lot of calls and are making high-quality relationship-oriented loans.
We're focused on booking appropriate risk-adjusted returns on all of our deals.
We received third-party validation on a quarterly basis related to our pricing and we remain competitive and disciplined.
The fundamentals of our balance sheet remains strong and we're well-positioned for solid returns on both assets and capital.
Turning to Slide 10 our mortgage repurchase trends.
Our provision expense was 0 for the third consecutive quarter as I mentioned earlier.
Linked quarter our repurchase pipeline declined 22% to $259 million.
And our ending reserve was down 21% to $184 million.
We saw favorable metrics in the first quarter versus key assumption metrics related to our expectations that you can see in the upper right-hand corner of the slide.
Our rescission or our success rate is trending higher.
Our loss severity is right in line and our mix is more weighted to expanding where we have better detail and insight into our exposure.
Although we saw a linked quarter increase in new requests based on discussions and information provided by Fannie we believe Fannie is accelerating not expanding it's review of our portfolio to reach substantial completion sooner.
Bottom line we still expect any ongoing ZFE [ph] related provision to be immaterial.
We've not been named in any lawsuits new lawsuits related to our private securitization since October 2012.
And we had no loan repurchase requests from our first lien private securitizations.
At this time based on our private securitization origination mix deal size age and performance we continue to believe that if any losses occur they should be significantly less than our GSE experience.
Turning to expenses on Slide 11.
Our positive story here continues.
Our total expenses declined 11% linked quarter as we discussed.
Excluding 4Q '12's restructuring charges of $19 million expenses were down 5% and our operating efficiency ratio improved more than 250 basis points.
We're seeing lower personnel costs from lower salary expenses and a decrease in headcount and from freezing our pension program.
Additional expense items that declined included FDIC premiums software advertising and sponsorship costs.
Our companywide efficiency efforts are paying off and we believe we're on track to implement $50 million of targeted efficiencies and achieve our annualized target expense level of approximately $925 million by the end of 2013.
Moving on to asset quality on Slide 12.
First quarter loan loss provision as discussed was $15 million flat to the fourth quarter.
Net charge-offs were $27 million compared to $20 million in the fourth quarter.
You might recall that 4Q '12 charge-offs included a $7 million and $9 million favorable adjustment for lower loss estimates for discharged bankruptcies.
On a linked quarter basis reserves decreased about $12 million and the reserve-to-loan ratio remains stable at 167 basis points.
Total nonperforming loans were up due to the health for sale loan portfolio which includes repurchased mortgage loans and nonperforming assets declined slightly from last quarter.
Wrapping up on Slide 13.
We'll continue to be opportunistic in pulling the levers we need to to control what we can control to continue to improve our profitability and returns over the long-term.
We've done a good job improving our operating leverage with significant expense efficiencies more than offsetting revenue challenges and we'll continue to look for ways to do so.
Our core business returns are encouraging with annualized core ROA at 1.08% and our core return on tangible common equity at 12.6% in the first quarter.
The solid returns in our core operating businesses of regional banking and capital markets demonstrate the progress we're making towards our long-term goals.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Bryan.
Thanks BJ.
I'm pleased with the progress we've made so far in 2013.
Focusing on our higher-return core businesses differentiating our customer service improving our productivity and efficiency and returning capital to our shareholders.
We're positioning our company to take full advantage of the opportunities that will result from any strengthening of the economy.
Meanwhile we will continue to work towards improving profitability reducing the overhang of our legacy businesses and moving forward to achieving our long-term Bonefish targets.
One side note.
We're planning on hosting an analyst day in the fall of this year.
We'll have additional details coming out later in the second quarter.
I hope that you will  be able to or at least strongly consider joining us for that.
Finally thanks to the First Horizon employees for their commitment and hard work.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Yes this is Rob Placet on Matt's team.
Just as far as -- on your outlook for the year I was just wondering if you could help us think about the trajectory of the NIM kind of over the course of the year? Yes.
It's BJ.
That 2.85% to 2.95% range any of the 3 quarters could be anywhere in that range.
I would generally expect that it would come down modestly.
But as you've seen there is volatility from what we're seeing in the marketplace in terms of both macro [indiscernible] movements and what we're seeing from competitive pressures.
So generally speaking I think each of the 3 quarters will be similar in that range.
Okay.
And I was just curious if you could kind of paint the scenario where you'd have kind of a flat NIM or even a higher NIM for the rest of the year? I mean obviously it's going to be loan growth and rate-driven but just curious what your thoughts are in terms of achieving the high end of that range for the rest of the year.
Sure.
I think if you look at the slide that we put out that kind of walk forward if you will what we saw in the quarter certainly I think loan fees come back after their seasonal declines.
We do have incremental opportunity though it's obviously getting smaller from lower deposit costs which can benefit us.
If some of the key macro rates move such as LIBOR 1 month LIBOR has been trending down.
If that stays flat to going up that's incrementally helpful to us.
The tenure in terms of our loans to mortgage company business in particular if that continues to stay at lower levels or come down a bit more that could certainly help us but we're staying fairly conservative on our outlook related to those.
But those could certainly help us get towards the higher end.
Okay great.
And then as it relates to your mortgage warehouse portfolio I was just curious could you just talk to the meaningful drop in balances this quarter what specifically drove it and kind of where you see balances trending for the year and kind of how you think about that portfolio on a normalized basis over time? Yes.
I think our outlook for -- again I will reiterate I think our outlook for that portfolio is roughly in line with where we're at today.
I think we ended the quarter at an average balance of $1.1 billion and that's going to move.
I did mention that there was probably a larger-than-expected drop.
We had ended the year last year at $1.8 billion period end and we will probably in the $1 billion range or just under it period end for this quarter.
So it was probably a larger-than-expected drop.
Two primary reasons for that were again: The first quarter is seasonally soft in terms of mortgage originations which is obviously where that business is going to ebb and flow; and the second the rate dynamics that we saw on the long end related to refis was not as conducive.
So both of those factors contributed to a larger-than-expected decline.
I would point out though that if you look at year-over-year our loans-to-mortgage company balances are roughly the same as what they were in 1Q '11.
So what we had seen throughout 2012 was significant strength and growth and it just came down a little bit faster than I would have anticipated.
That portfolio again as I mentioned is very attractive from a profitability and return and risk perspective.
It's also one of our highest-yielding commercial portfolios with yields in the $4.80 range.
So I think that's going to have a bit of a disproportionate impact if it moves as much as it did this way -- or this quarter excuse me.
Our next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow-up with a few questions on the mortgage business.
In 1Q what was the split of purchase and refi? I'd probably say Steve it was in the 80% 20% range refi versus purchase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
BJ in the past I think your balances were somewhere between $400 million and $800 million in that ballpark.
Do you have more capacity that you plan to maintain as volumes fall? I'm trying to get a sense if we go back to that range or for some reason we should stay above it.
Yes.
I think Steve if my memory serves me right the lowest that portfolio has gotten in recent memory was $330 million something like that.
We would expect it to stay at these kind of levels over the rest of 2013.
It's kind of hard to gauge where it goes beyond that.
As you can see it can move quite a bit in any particular quarter.
But there are a couple of things that we have done in that business where we believe we've gained share such that over time we think the lows are not as low as what they would have historically been.
I would see it more in the $500 million to $1 billion range would be more of the lower end as opposed to what we would've seen previously.
But again our current expectations based on the rate outlook and what our bankers say in that business we think it's $1 billion to $1.2 billion range for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> But I guess BJ we need refi activity to stay very strong right if you're getting 80% of this business from refi? Yes.
That would be a good assumption.
That helps Steve.
This is Bryan.
We think -- and Susan can talk about the portfolio limits.
As BJ reiterated we work to broaden and deepen our relationship with our mortgage banking customers.
We think we have as BJ said gained market share.
And we think that we're working really hard to be the first line used and increased utilization.
And we think we will benefit incrementally if actual purchase money does pick up as the housing recovery builds.
So we're optimistic that we have gained share it would be a bigger business.
As we highlighted the obvious this morning there's more volatility around that business but we think we get paid very well for the service that we provide there.
And we have good solid deep relationships and like the business.
Yes.
This is Susan Steven.
To reiterate what Bryan said we have taken the opportunity with some of our larger longer-term clients to increase the lines that we offer to them in the mortgage warehouse business.
And also as both BJ and Bryan said added market share by adding some additional clients as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just had one question on capital.
It looks like you paid out just over 100% in net income in the quarter by the dividend and buybacks.
Bryan is that how we should be thinking about capital deployment going forward? I think in the short run Steve that's probably a good way to think about it.
If you look at the dynamics of our balance sheet with a continued runoff in the non-strategic portfolios as we expect and you see fairly limited opportunities for loan growth in a slower growth economy I would expect that we would anticipate the return of a significant amount of capital to shareholders.
We don't think we need to build our capital ratios at this point.
And we're very comfortable using the combination of the dividend.
It's now a $0.05 a share and the buyback where we bought $30 million this quarter returning that capital to our shareholders in the near-term.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just one kind of near-term question on reserve releases.
With the reserve ratio getting down to where it is now are we getting kind of closer to what you view as the new normal? Should we expect the declining pace of reserve release in the future? Or maybe limited or no releases going forward? And then more of a bigger picture question Bryan for you on M&amp;A or just expansion generally.
You mentioned the new mid-Atlantic region which is building on some of the presence you've had there before.
How do you see that expansion playing out? Are there M&amp;A opportunities out there you think could play out for you? Is it more maybe a de novo or just putting teams on the field for right now? Just -- if you can just give us a sense how fast that could play out? Okay.
Thanks Kevin.
I'll let Susan talk about reserve releases and then I'll come back on your M&amp;A question.
Hey Kevin this is Susan.
As it relates to our reserve methodology we continue to use our ALLL model on our various portfolios then we layer in expert judgment when we feel like there might be a component that's not picked up in the quantitative model.
So we just -- we continue to look at the mix in the portfolio as well as the economic outlook.
So Kevin on the M&amp;A question I guess you might infer from our response to Steve on capital repatriation we think that we've got the excess capital that if the right kind of opportunity came up from an M&amp;A perspective we would be interested.
We think it's vitally important that we be disciplined that we be good stewards of that capital we put it to work in a way that produces strong returns for our shareholders.
As you mentioned the mid-Atlantic markets.
And then opportunities to fill in here in the state of Tennessee would all be attractive to us.
But we're going to be disciplined in the way we do it and we'll continue to keep our eye on the landscape and look at opportunities as we have the opportunity.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Bryan are there any key markets within Carolinas and Virginia that you would be kind of higher up on your radar screen or any size of company that it would have to be to make it worth it to look at such an opportunity? Yes Kevin.
Our biggest presence today is in the Winston-Salem/Greensboro area.
We've got a small presence and building in Raleigh a small presence and toehold and some folks in Richmond Virginia to name a few but if it were in one of the towns in the Carolinas.
As we've tried to relay over the years we're very comfortable in doing businesses that have sort of the demographics or the feel of the major markets that we serve in Tennessee where we can over time build a top share that we can have local leadership and compete in a way that is similar to the way we've built out our business in the State of Tennessee.
So there are a number of those opportunities.
With respect to size there's really no magic number in that regard.
Clearly there's some scale benefits to if you're going to do M&amp;A to being larger than smaller but there's also the flip side which is being focused in markets and being concentrated is very important.
And so when we look at we don't focus first on size we focus on what is the makeup of the customer business what does the organization look like how are we going to be able to integrate our products and services what does it do for us in terms of bringing talent onto our platform.
So we're not really bounded by size so much but more focused on what does it do in terms of accretive nature to the franchise.
Our next question comes from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
This is Ibrahim on behalf of Erika.
Just a couple of questions.
Well first on expenses.
I think it's quite clear in terms of your guidance in terms of where you want to be at the end of the fourth quarter the $925 million annual run rate.
When we look out should we expect that that could go lower given if we stay in this revenue environment? Or should that be sort of stable to higher given the investments that you are making in some of the mid-Atlantic markets that you talked about? Yes this is Bryan.
Assuming steady state is that anything in terms of expanding the franchise through M&amp;A alter the site? That expense base would have some natural downward bias and it's just by virtue of the continued runoff in the nonstrategic portfolios and the costs that are associated with that.
So we don't set a $925 million target as a target any more than we set the $1 billion that we talked about last year.
We're constantly looking at that cost structure and looking for ways to get more efficient in the way we deliver products and services.
So I would say in combination of what we think is happening in terms of the makeup and structure of the branch network the use of technology the runoff in the nonstrategic portfolios there continues to be some amount of downward bias over time in that number if you would in sort of the current type operating environment.
So we'll be focused on it in that regard.
Got it.
Thanks a lot for that.
And just one follow-up.
Thanks for the detail BJ on the margin.
I was just wondering if you could give us some more color in terms of the decline in the security wheels.
You talked last quarter about yes it is an MBS heavy book which is pricing lower.
Should we see the rate of declines sort of moderate as we go forward to sort of thinking with your margin guidance that quarterly NIM should not fall below 2.85% at least? Yes.
So we're not doing anything different with buying in the securities portfolio either in terms of mix or growing it particularly.
You would've seen it relatively flat this quarter.
Our yields have been coming down in that portfolio in the last couple of quarters anywhere between 12 and 20 basis points.
And so I think you should probably assume that we'll see similar reductions in that yield over the course of 2013.
Our next question comes from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A capital question.
With the dividend increase and the increased authorization was there some kind of stress test that you had to do to make those happen? And can you comment on how that works? This is Bryan.
We regularly do stress testing and we provide that to our regulators both at the OCC and the Federal Reserve.
We've had a number of capital actions where we would have submitted that kind of information as part of that process whether it's TARP repayment or beginning the buyback.
As we talked about in the past we think it's appropriate to approve these authorizations in a modest -- somewhat modest steps and continue to look at capital and continue to stress test.
So there's nothing new about the stress testing that we have done or have been doing.
As you know the provisions under DoddFrank have stress testing and ultimately public disclosure that stress testing for all executions I think greater than $10 billion.
The OCC and the fed have been rolling out those requirements for that stress testing so we're focused on that process which will begin later in 2013 and continue for -- will continue ongoing.
But there's nothing new or different in terms of stress testing that we've been doing.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the $100 million NCPP you did this quarter I'm assuming that's going to replace the $200 million trough you have I haven't seen any announcements along those lines.
Is that -- $100 million seems extreme if you're not replacing the $200 million? I think Jefferson it's BJ what we did was a couple of things on the preferred one was we saw an opportunity to lock in very historically low rates on a piece of the capital structure that we had that we wanted to eventually add to.
And so we thought we did a pretty good job timing the market and doing that.
Yes over time we will use it to opportunistically retire other parts of the capital structure as appropriate but you could assume that it was a little bit of a pre-funding effort but one that we think over time was a smart move for us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right Thanks.
A final follow-up is on that.
If you could just give a little more color on that the increase or the size of that reduction in the mortgage warehouse business it just seems like a big number for a quarter where -- it was just a lot bigger than we had refinanced this fall during the quarter.
So I guess can you talk about the $700 million? Is there 1 or 2 big clients that really came down or just maybe pulled some credit from somebody or is it just that volatile? This is Susan.
It's not embedded in any 1 or 2 clients.
It's really based on the economic environment of low activity.
And again there is seasonality to it.
We were at almost the exact same level this time 3/31/12 as we are 3/31/13.
Our next question comes from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Brian I just wanted to drill down a little bit more in terms of the loan pipeline in the funding side.
As you mentioned your expectation the mortgage warehouse is to stay relatively steady over the course of the year.
But what catches my attention in both the pipeline as well as in the capital markets business is it seems like there was some amount of pull through in Q4.
And then I'm just curious in terms of the mix with the pipeline build now in the first quarter in C&amp;I what is the shift there from quarter to quarter if you will and kind of the dynamics between the 2 quarters? Yes I'll start and then Susan can talk more particularly about the details.
Clearly the pull through in the fourth quarter was good.
You may recall we mentioned there is a fair amount of tax-motivated things that occurred in the fourth quarter.
Our pipelines were a little lower at the fourth quarter.
We saw a natural build and there's some seasonality around closings in any given year.
The pipelines as we measure them the growth is pretty broad based.
We see strength in a number of asset classes.
In fact there's some asset classes that we're surprised at how strong they are and particularly in areas of commercial real estate at this point.
So it's pretty broad based.
We feel good about the makeup and the customer mix in there and are optimistic based on what we've seen to date that we're going to have pretty good pull through on that.
Susan anything you want to...
Yes one of the things that BJ mentioned too is we have seen some growth in our asset-based lending business.
We continue to see opportunities there.
And then just in our core markets our core C&amp;I not a lot of organic growth in terms of companies doing a lot of expansion but with the calling efforts of our relationship managers those long tenured and some of the ones we've brought on we continue to have some success in terms of taking long-term business away from competitors.
If you look at the first quarter we had good success all across the state in terms of the business that we won.
We had strength in the East we had strength in the middle we have strength in the West.
It's pretty broad based but as Susan said there's not a whole lot of incremental borrowing when there's a lot of moving market share around and we like our prospects of that and our folks are working hard to grow that business.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just kind of a follow-up.
I'm assuming then also the commitments have also meaningfully trended higher as well.
Just with respect to that pipeline.
Yes we've seen an increase in those commitments as well.
Although in terms of existing commitments there's still some pressure on utilization as customers are -- we still have some customers deleveraging.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just lastly just in terms of the capital markets just in terms of the quarter to quarter some of the other competitors saw a little bit better strength in Q4 again because of the fiscal cliff and everything else.
But your activity levels in the quarter again kind of at the lower end of your guidance but I'm just curious in terms of what you're seeing in terms of the customer flow Q1 going forward in terms of that pipeline.
Again with a lot of the political noise that occurred between Q4 and Q1 how that may be affecting kind of your outlook on the average daily revenues in the business now going forward? Yes yes.
Our expectation is that will be pretty steady.
We expect to be in the lower half of $1 million to $1.5 million average daily revenues based on what we see as a sort of catalyst for our customers buying in this environment.
The biggest driver of volatility is going to be expectations about the direction of rates.
If you look at the last 75 to 100 days you've seen a lot of volatility in what people are thinking about rates.
Now we feel very good about the fundamental makeup of the customer base the products that we're adding like the general issue general market issue the municipal expansion that we've been building out and we think it will be a pretty steady business.
Our business is a distribution-oriented business.
We don't position for proprietary trading and we think it will be steady as people have cash flow to continue to reinvest volatility will come in from movement in the direction of rates but generally we have a pretty positive outlook over the remainder of 2013.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the mortgage repurchase.
If you look at the reserves that you have and you kind of take out the impact of what you already have in the remaining pipeline it would look like the new demands at the pace that they were at this quarter you could cover about 3 more quarters which in my mind given your kind of guidance so you don't need any more reserving or any meaningful increase it looks like these activities as we get closer to year end would actually be behind us.
So I just wanted to confirm that that timeframe looked right.
It's BJ.
Yes in my initial comments I did talk about that Fannie seemed to be accelerating requests but in our discussions with them not expanding them.
So that would naturally mean that they're trying to get through the pipelines faster and that's obviously a benefit for us.
So again what we watch more closely than quarter to quarter requests is the conversation and data that we get from them about aggregate exposure and terminal exposure and we feel very comfortable with where that's at.
We'd obviously want it to be resolved sooner rather than later as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes if you just kind of fly through the map it looked like you got 2 or 3 more quarters at the rate that they were at and then it would be kind of behind it.
The other thing BJ I want to ask you about was the capital markets inventory impact on the net interest margin.
It looks like that's kind of coming through the securities kind of the repo line where you're putting maybe more of that hedging on the balance sheet.
Do you think that that's a permanent 3 basis points or is there some opportunity that maybe you would kind of go back to how maybe some of that's more off balance sheet and you get that 3 basis points back in the near term? Yes.
Yes you're exactly right in terms of what the dynamic was this quarter.
It's all dependent on what we're trying to hedge from a loan position perspective.
It just so happened that in the first quarter we had more on balance sheet hedging which shows up as you know in your trading liabilities and on the asset side of the repo.
You know that could change next quarter it could stay where it's at.
So what my more conservative assumption is is that it stays where it's at.
But again as you know that's not where we make money in that business that we use the balance sheet to facilitate the fee income side and the distribution side of our business.
So it's going to have a disproportionate impact on the NIM but a very modest impact on NII.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I was just kind of looking at it it wasn't the inventory getting bigger it was just the hedging activities and if that was a shift back that would at least put some upward movement on the margin at least when we recaptured that part of it.
That's right.
Our next question comes from Nicholas Karzon with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question that I wanted to start out with was the noninterest expense in the nonstrategic segment.
And it looks like it actually ticked up quarter-over-quarter if you exclude the legal accrual on the fourth quarter.
I was wondering kind of when we should start to see this come down.
I mean it's roughly $130 million kind of on a run rate basis kind of when that starts to come down and kind of what portion of that is variable versus fixed over the next couple of years? It's BJ.
I actually think that on a linked quarter basis in aggregate expenses were down $1 million and if you exclude that litigation reserve they had at $5 million was actually down 6.
So what is really in that is continued credit-related costs to managing our nonstrategic portfolio which continued to float down over time as we work out those assets.
And generally less expensive as our MSR portfolio comes down the self-servicing costs will come down commensurate with that.
So I do think it's coming down appropriately.
Do you see that on Slide 7.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on the tax credit it was a little bit low I think at $6.2 million this quarter than it's been in the last couple of quarters.
I know that moves from quarter to quarter but what's kind of a normalized level to think about that? About $6 million to $7 million a quarter.
Our next question comes from John Picard with Evercore Partners.
Could you talk about the trend in the file requests on the private label side in the quarter? I know you sound pretty confident still on the lost content there that will be manageable.
But just wanted to get a little bit of color around how the file requested trended on that side and through the quarter? John when you say file request what are you thinking about? Research Division</strong> Well I think you have indicated before and last quarter that full file request had started to pick up where you've had some requests on the private label side and I know that could portend any full repurchase requests But you haven't seen that yet but I'm just curious if you are seeing incremental inquiries on the file request side at all.
John...
No.
We see no reason for clarification in our appendix in the bulletin about that.
It's really not a bad request but we really haven't seen a lot of movement there either quarter to quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
So no real change through the quarter on private label side in either direction to free the -- to have any incremental return on that side.
That's right.
John this is Bryan.
It was very quiet in the private label space in the first quarter nothing really substantiated this change since I'd say early in the third quarter I think BJ mentioned in October but very quiet in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then in your core loan portfolio outside of the mortgage warehouse can you give us a little color on what yields are you originating new money on your loan book particularly in C&amp;I x warehouse and commercial real estate just so we can get an idea of the ultimate seasoning of that portfolio as rates remain low? John generally speaking I'll give you a little more color than just the yields.
But our new originations are predominantly floating rate on the commercial side.
About 80% of what we're doing is floating rate.
In terms of core C&amp;I the yields that we're seeing are in the LIBOR plus 2 50% range something like that and on the commercial real estate side they're roughly in line with that maybe a little bit better.
So when you combine floating rate assets coming on the balance sheet in a competitive environment that pressures your yields in terms of what you have on the portfolio  versus what is coming on.
What I would say is well though is that the new business that's coming on is very clean.
So when we run risk-adjusted return on capitals for individual credits we're seeing very good risk-adjusted returns and future economic profit associated with that.
So our credit quality's stellar we're getting full costumer relationships we're picking up share that we want to see.
But in this environment those yields are -- are going to be pretty competitive.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question just in terms of the legal accrual this is the second quarter in a row that you've taken an accrual looks like it ticked up a little bit.
Is there anything there that we should be -- that we should know about? I don't think so Ken.
They were just for existing litigation matters.
In our Q you'll see that we regularly disclose what the reasonably possible lawsuits would be and what kinds of lawsuits we have.
And so every quarter we're going to get new information that will determine whether or not we need to add the litigation reserves or not.
On some existing matters we felt the need to do so.
This is Bryan.
I'll add to it.
As we talked about in the past most of the accrual process for matters like litigation or for that matter mortgage repurchase are all driven by probable and estimable.
And as we get as BJ said more information that gives us the ability to establish accruals based on probable and estimable standards.
We will accrue those when we have that ability and so we don't talk specifically about individual matters.
As BJ said we put as detailed a disclosure as we think we can in the Qs and Ks.
And as opportunities and information come up for us to set up appropriate reserves for those matters we take that step.
Research Division</strong> And was the $5 million related to a private label this quarter? No.
As we said we have not had any private label repurchase requests and I'll just use that as a reference point because until we have requests it's not -- we don't have the ability to make accruals for it.
Research Division</strong> No perfect.
And then just one question in terms of the pace of the expenses if we take what you reported this quarter the 2 41 we back out the $5 million of legal accruals we're are at 2 35 looks like up by 4 basically you're at 9 40 the 9 41.
So based on this quarter's number you're sort of already within your 9 25  to 9 50 range.
Is that the right way to think about it? Is there going to be -- I mean do we see a tick up in expenses then coming back down again? Because it seems like you already if we carry this out you're already within your targeted expense guidance? I think Ken we've talked about 9 25 this time as our target or goal for our annualized run rate by the end of the year.
So I think we're still a little bit above that by your math and we expect to continually bring that down as some of the further efficiency efforts flow through our numbers.
So for instance some of the actions that we took in the fourth quarter many of those employees were still on the payroll in the first quarter.
So they'll come off in terms of salaries throughout the rest of the year.
So as Brian said and as I've said in this environment we're going to kind of continue to bring down our expenses appropriately without sacrificing the revenue and so you should see that continue to glide down.
Our next question comes from Kevin Reynolds with Wunderlich securities.
Research Division</strong> Bryan could you talk about the dynamics of the competitive environment and whether there's been any change this quarter versus say fourth quarter in terms of how big banks are acting with respect to structuring price and I guess the small banks as well.
And if there's any noticeable difference how do you think that continues to play out over the course of this year? Yes good morning.
We continue to see competitive pressures to being very intense.
It is there's probably no remarkable change in the first quarter just sort of a continuation of this trend line.
As I commented earlier the opportunity that we -- and I think most people are seeing are opportunities to gain market share or move relationships around.
In a lot of cases you would assume by definition that that's  improved price to structure and so you'd see that that continue to play through.
We are not seeing a whole lot of difference in the behavior of large or small competitors.
It's as I've said in different times in the past we tend to see better pricing and structure on larger more significant deals simply because there's not as much as competition for those deals.
On smaller deals there is an awful lot more competitions.
So it's a bit dated but we see deals where a borrower may get 15 term sheets on a deal.
So that's not -- that didn't create the best dynamic for competition.
And that's one of the reasons that we are focused on the more specialized type businesses at the margins.
BJ mentioned the growth we had in ABL we've talked a lot about the contraction we saw in warehouse lending but that's -- those are the kinds of businesses where we think we have a specialized product set we have a specialized capability and we have the ability to create attractive returns and provide valuable service to our customer base.
And so we're really looking at the business to be competitive in the core C&amp;I and corporate business as well as commercial real estate but also to expand our purview of those specialized opportunities to grow business healthcare is another example.
So that's a long way of saying the dynamics haven't changed an awful lot in the last quarter.
It's still a very competitive environment.
Borrowers are not doing a whole lot of incremental new money borrowing.
It makes it a challenging environment for everybody in the industry to show incremental loan growth.
And so we'll stick to our discipline and try to win good solid customer relationship business and grow the business very patiently with our eye towards the long term.
Our next question comes from Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious what your expectations for the securities portfolio size will be going forward? And then also just what the reinvestment yields are in that portfolio? Yes.
So we would expect that the securities portfolio size would be essentially what it is here give or take a couple of $100 million each way so not any significant change in buying patterns or activities.
And then our yields would continue to float down in the 10- to 15-basis point range a quarter.
Eventually they're going to flatten out but they're still on a downward trajectory.
LLC Research Division</strong> But what are the yields of your repurchases right now? Well what we're putting on in terms of security reimbursing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
We're really in the 1 50 range something like that.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> BJ maybe kick it off with you.
You talked about in your prepared remarks talked a little bit about continuing to look at the branch structure.
Can you help us identify kind of or can you help us think about kind of where the greatest opportunities are for say the areas of real estate or personnel and just kind of what are the opportunities as you think about from an expense perspective as you think about just the infrastructure longer term? Yes.
I think that obviously what we've already done in terms of our largest line item anybody's largest line item in our industry of people.
We've taken a lot of those actions already and so we'll continue to see the benefit of that going forward.
Our branch infrastructure is certainly one that we continue to look at.
Bryan mentioned that not only the number but the size as well how do we right size the branch for the customer behavior that we're seeing to make our footprint smaller.
From a real estate perspective in aggregate not just branches but we have a particular focus on reducing the footprint if you will of square footage that we use as an organization to be more efficient to move more into owned properties or long-term leased properties from elsewhere so we continue to see opportunities to do that.
Our procurement group has done a good job working with our various businesses to renegotiate contracts.
And when ones come up for renewal taking costs out of the organization there we'll continue to see that.
And what we're focused on a lot going forward are things that we call horizontal opportunities.
So things like looking at end to end processes and taking pieces and parts out of that to make our experience for our customers better and take cost out.
Most of what we've done already is what I'd call vertical cost reductions and these will be a little bit more processed than horizontal oriented.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay thanks.
And then so like we got away from the mortgage warehouse there for a bit but I'll bring it back really quickly.
Did hear from -- one of your competitors in that space this quarter that there was kind of a pickup in competition.
Could you give us a sense of in that business specifically what you feel like the competitive environment is and have yields come under pressure at all there? Not particularly.
I don't think our yields are still very strong in the $480 million range.
We have continued to pick up new incremental clients.
We've gotten additional business from existing but it's going to ebb and flow.
There are some large clients of ours that will do business with us primarily but others secondarily and vice versa.
And so what we're continuing to work on in that business is becoming more and more of a primary relationship for as many as we can.
But we haven't seen any particular competitive pressures that would give us any cause for concern that I've heard of.
Then this is Bryan.
I know this is a blinding glimpse of the obvious everything we're doing right now is very competitive.
It's all relative you have to keep it in that context.
But it's a very competitive environment and we feel like we have to work hard to earn all of our customer business and we haven't seen a big change in the mortgage business.
I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Bryan Jordan for closing comments.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
We appreciate your time and your interest in our company.
Please let us know if you have any questions or need additional information and Aarti will  be available throughout the day.
I hope you all have a great weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.'s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Aarti Bowman Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Allie.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.fhnc.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
I'm pleased with our continued progress in the second quarter.
Our core businesses delivered solid results we made headway in realizing our efficiency initiatives the nonstrategic segment's drag diminished and we prudently deployed capital.
We're managing our company for improved sustainable profitability and higher returns.
Our focus is on structuring a profitable balance sheet that will drive long-term earnings growth.
We're not where we want to be yet but with each quarter we're getting closer.
The economic environment is of course a factor in how quickly we reach our goals.
We've seen some recent improvement or positive data points and with rising employment higher consumer confidence solid home price appreciation and reasonably steady yet modest GDP growth.
While our markets in and around Tennessee are generally in line with national trends certain areas such as Middle and Southeast Tennessee are doing better than average.
We're increasingly well positioned to make the most of our region's opportunities.
In late May Fed comments sparked concerns that monetary tightening would occur sooner than had been expected causing the 10-year treasury rates to jump and igniting fears about the effect of higher rates on the economy businesses and the banking industry.
As BJ will discuss later First Horizon is well positioned for higher rates and should be the beneficiary over the long term.
Near term though our borrowers seemed somewhat cautious about the strength of the recovery resulting in restrained credit demand.
Our second quarter loan production was steady and our bankers' focus on making quality relationship-oriented loans will ultimately benefit our balance sheet and enhance long-term profitability.
On the mortgage front rising rates had slowed refinancing but purchase activity has picked up impacting our loans to mortgage companies' line of business.
Mortgage warehouse lending is a good profitable lending area for us and we don't expect that to change in the second half of 2013.
We're taking market share adding new customers and expanding lines to existing customers.
FTN Financial our fixed-income business was negatively affected by the unprecedented rate volatility and the significant rise in rates which occurred in the latter part of the quarter.
Through the first 2 months of the second quarter fixed income average daily revenue was $1.05 million in line with the past several quarters.
However market factors experienced in the late May and June led to an overall average daily revenue for the second quarter of $915 000.
We've recently begun to see some pickup in activity and with greater market stability we expect this business to generate average daily revenue in the range of $1 million to $1.5 million per day.
As you're aware revenue headwinds have intensified cost-cutting efforts across the banking industry.
We've been lowering costs for the past several years and have shown significant progress.
We're looking at all of our businesses.
But the regional bank's improvement in its efficiency ratio and revenue per FTE clearly shows that our productivity initiatives are paying off.
Keep in mind that we don't want to reach our targeted cost-cutting goals and stop.
We want efficiency and productivity to be ingrained in our way of doing business.
Credit quality strength is also a priority for us.
As anticipated nonperforming loans did increase in the second quarter reflecting further implementation of a regulatory change that required us to classify second liens as non-accrual if the first lien was nonperforming.
Core asset quality trends though caused us to expect stable credit quality metrics in the second half of 2013.
Our capital ratios remain strong.
The Basel III framework recently approved by regulators did not have a significant impact.
The Tier 1 common ratio under a fully implemented Basel III would be approximately 9.8%.
In the second quarter we deployed capital through continued share buybacks and we also acquired a small bank in East Tennessee from the FDIC.
Again I'm pleased with our second quarter performance.
We're improving our cost structure building our core businesses broadening our customer base and continuing to wind down the nonstrategic businesses.
I'll now turn it over to BJ to discuss our financials.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 6.
Our net income available to common shareholders for the second quarter was $41 million with diluted EPS at $0.17.
Our total revenues declined 5% linked quarter.
NII held up relatively well.
Regional bank revenues were up and fixed income and mortgage-related revenue accounted for all of the linked quarter decline due to the backup in rates in the latter part of the quarter.
Expenses were down 5% linked quarter to $14 million with most expense categories decreasing.
Our loan loss provision was flat to last quarter's level at $15 million as credit trends continue to remain solid.
Moving to segment highlights on Slide 7.
Our core businesses continued to show solid performance.
In the regional bank net income was $43 million in the second quarter.
Pretax pre-provision net revenue was $80 million or 7% above first quarter in the bank.
Linked quarter noninterest income grew 5% driven by growth in deposit transactions brokerage management and trust fees while expenses in the bank decreased 1%.
Loan loss provision was $13 million in the second quarter compared to a provision credit of $2.5 million in the first simply reflecting a continuing conservative view of reserving for the commercial loan portfolio.
In our FTN business net income was $8 million positive in second quarter of '13.
As I said fixed-income revenue declined 14% linked quarter and as everyone knows said commentary around tapering led to the significant market volatility and spike in rates adversely impacting our fixed-income revenues in the quarter.
Expenses also decreased 3% linked quarter reflecting lower variable comp as expected which was somewhat offset by the modestly higher legal and professional expenses.
As Bryan stated earlier during the first 2 months of the quarter average daily revenue was a little over $1 million but June was substantially lower.
Our management team and our traders at FTN did an excellent job managing our loan positions down efficiently during June to keep our business as efficient and nimble as possible.
Moving to the nonstrategic segment.
I may never get to say this again so I'm going to say it now.
We actually had a positive net income in that segment for the quarter.
It was $2.5 million in the second quarter positive compared to a loss of $9 million in the first.
Revenue declined 17% mainly driven by mortgage warehouse valuation adjustment of $2.5 million in the second quarter.
Expenses were down 31% from lower litigation reduction in professional fees occupancy cost as well as other expenses related to continued wind down of our legacy businesses.
Loan loss provision was down significantly from $17.5 million in the first to just under $2 million in the second.
The provision decrease there was a result of lower loan balances improvement in the home equity portfolio from lower delinquencies and a decline in charge-offs and improved recovery in the commercial portfolio.
Moving to the regional bank balance sheet trends on Slide 8.
Our average core deposits remained steady at $14.6 billion and average loans were relatively steady as well at $12.2 billion.
Period end loans to mortgage companies were up 23% but down 6% on an average basis.
In that business yields are around 4.5% to 4.75% making these loans a significant contributor to net interest income.
As Bryan mentioned the recent rise in rates have slowed mortgage refi volumes.
However we still expect relative strength in this business since rates remain historically low.
Purchase activity is likely to become more of a driver versus refis over time and we have started to see that shift in our mix.
For the remainder of the year we anticipate balances to fluctuate up and down in line with market conditions.
Our commercial pipeline remains solid with existing customers representing about 60% of the pipeline or so.
Linked quarter uptick in fundings reflected a higher volume of loans leaving the pipeline in closing in the second quarter.
Moving on to the consolidated balance sheet trends on Slide 9.
Our total assets were $25 billion roughly flat to last quarter.
Our consolidated loans decreased just slightly reflecting modest growth in our bank and runoff in the nonstrategic.
Our average core deposits in aggregate was stable and we also repaid about $250 million of debt at the bank level and $100 million at the parent.
Our securities portfolio averaged $3.2 billion in the quarter and linked quarter yields declined 12 basis points as reinvestment rates faced continued pressure.
Securities that are rolling off yield about 3% to 4% and we're now reinvesting at about 2% to 2.5% given the recent rise in loan rates.
The recent rise in mortgage rates cost our unrealized gain to decrease from a positive $80 million in the first quarter to a positive $16 million in the second.
Our investment portfolio strategy continues to be to buy securities with structure not stretched for yield thus protecting us a bit more in shock scenarios.
Our net interest spread was stable linked quarter while loan yields decreased 3 basis points deposit costs also declined 3 basis points reflecting strong discipline around pricing across all of our businesses.
And if you look at Slide 10 our consolidated net interest income was relatively flat due to lower average loan balances which were partially mitigated by higher day count lower deposit rates and an increase in loan fees.
Our net interest margin was up slightly linked quarter at 2.96% in the second.
Lower cash balances improved the margin and was somewhat offset by continued yield declines in securities and fixed-rate loan portfolios.
Sitting here today we continue to expect a quarterly net interest margin in the range of 285 to 295 basis points by fourth quarter of 2013.
Currently our assumptions include rates staying -- macro rates staying at current levels or rising modestly over time continued modest loan yield declines due to competitive pressures loans to mortgage companies somewhat below current levels limited buying opportunities with the securities portfolio Fed balances similar to 2Q and flat to modest growth in our loan portfolio in aggregate.
Over the long term our asset sensitivity has positioned us well for rising rates.
Our consolidated loan portfolio is comprised of about 67% floating rate loans tied to LIBOR.
So all else equal in a rising rate scenario 100-basis-point increase would equal about a 6% increase in net interest income and a 200-basis-points rise would be about 11% increase to NII.
We continue to believe that an asset-sensitive balance sheet is key to our ability to generate strong profitability and returns over time.
Moving to Slide 11 in mortgage repurchase trends.
GSE mortgage repurchase expense was 0 for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Linked quarter the repurchase price line declined 9% to $235 million and our ending reserve was down to $123 million.
New requests were up 24% reflecting an anticipated acceleration of requests.
Our total expected aggregate requests remain unchanged and we still expect any ongoing GSE-related provision to be immaterial.
We have not been named in any new lawsuits related to our private securitization since October 12 and we had no loan repurchase requests from our first lien private securitizations.
And at this time based on our private securitization origination mix yield size agent [ph] performance we continue to believe that losses on our private securitizations should be significantly less than our GSE experience.
Moving to expenses on Slide 12.
We continue to be proud of what our employees have been able to accomplish with expense efficiency efforts and you can see that in the bottom graph.
Total expenses this quarter declined 5% or $14 million and our consolidated efficiency ratio also improved.
We lowered expense across several categories including compensation occupancy FDIC premiums and foreclosed real estate costs.
We've seen continued benefits from our efficiency initiatives and they continue to show up in our numbers.
Year-over-year the regional bank's efficiency ratio improved 500 basis points from 62% to -- excuse me from 67% to 62%.
We now expect to exceed our original goal and anticipate consolidated annual expenses below $925 million by the end of 2013.
Moving to asset quality on Slide 14.
Our total net charge-offs declined 32% linked quarter.
Linked quarter total loan loss reserves decreased $3 million to $262 million.
As Bryan mentioned nonperforming loans were up as a result of the implementation of regulatory guidance around first and second liens.
Since we do not service or own the majority of our first liens from the second we needed a third-party vendor to provide first lien status which we received information on in the second quarter.
The increase in NPLs did not have a material effect on our allowance since we already had contemplated the risk associated with the standalone senior liens in prior quarters.
We do not expect further significant impact on the NPLs or reserve from this regulatory guidance and you'll note that our ORE levels were up due to the Mountain National acquisition.
Moving to Basel III highlights.
Our actual 2Q '13 Tier 1 common ratio is 10.3%.
And as you might recall the originally proposed Basel III rules about 1 year ago would have had more of a negative impact on us primarily because of the higher risk weighting applied to our home equity portfolio you would remember probably a 240-basis-point spot rate impact.
However the recently approved Basel III final rule did not raise the residential loan risk ratings.
We know anticipate only an incremental 50-basis-points hit to our 2Q '13 Tier 1 common ratio.
This would put 2Q '13's estimated Tier 1 common ratio at a 9.8% spot rate under fully phased in Basel III well above the 7% threshold.
Wrapping up on Slide 15.
Core business trends are generally encouraging.
As we've discussed with our 12-month trailing core ROA is 1.02% and our core ROTCE at 11.8%.
Solid returns in our core operating businesses in regional banking and capital markets continue to demonstrate the progress we're making towards our long-term goals by controlling what we can control.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Bryan.
Thanks BJ.
We're building the platform for long-term success: a platform that will enable us to fully take advantage of the opportunities that are attractive to operating regions and are strengthening the economy also.
We are executing on the strategic priorities of differentiating our customer service improving our productivity and efficiency and prudently managing our capital.
We also have significant asset sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet.
We will continue to work towards improving the profitability reducing the overhang of our legacy businesses and achieving our long-term bonefish targets.
Please remember that we're hosting an analyst day on November 21 here in Memphis.
Finally thanks to the First Horizon employees for their commitment and hard work.
With their ongoing support I'm confident in our ability to make additional progress in the second half of 2013.
Allie with that we'll now take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bryan I want to start regarding the commentary in the 10-Q for potential update on HUD this quarter is there anything you can share with us? I did see in the slides that you met with them during the quarter.
And any initial thoughts on potential for settlement here? Yes there's an update in one of the slides on mortgage repurchase.
If you'll remember that's a matter that's been out there for about 1 year that I think the HUD investigation or file request was about 1 year or so ago.
As you noted we mentioned on that slide that we have had one meeting at this point.
We have exchanged -- they exchanged some information that they provided us to review they looked at a small sample.
It will take us a while to evaluate that.
As we noted on that slide we don't have the ability at this point to estimate any range of losses or provide any estimates around reserves.
I would -- my guess is at this point given the time that it's taking to get to this point in their investigation what we need to do in terms of evaluating the loan files and so on and so forth it's going to take quite a while before we have any real information that is helpful in providing estimates around potential impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I just had one other question on the buyback.
Why was it so light this quarter at $8 million? And then why step it up to $40 million and then accelerate it in 3Q? Or are you just making up for being a bit light in 2Q? Or is this a new run rate given the updated capital rules? Yes.
If you look at -- it's an accounting thing more than anything.
We bought back in the open market $8 million shares.
The shares and the capital came out the prepaid repurchase.
We actually saw the capital come out but not the shares.
It started in the middle of the quarter and it ran across quarter end.
So it will take some time to complete it but that's sort of a continuation.
So the actual buying under the $40 million program will occur throughout the latter half of the second quarter into the third quarter.
So it's just a timing thing in terms of the way we account for it but the capital's already been reduced.
Research Division</strong> So we think of $40 million is that a good quarterly run rate for buybacks? Well if you look back on the last couple of quarters that's where we've been.
But as we look forward we'll do as we always have we'll look for opportunities to invest capital and organic growth.
We'll continue to evaluate transactions like Mountain National and things that are going on in the economy and otherwise.
And we'll evaluate the opportunity to put capital back.
As in the past to the extent we view -- to the extent we have excess capital we view using the dividend and the buyback as a way to return that to shareholders.
Our next question comes from Nicholas Karzon of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on that capital markets business.
Just a couple of questions.
I think that capital markets expenses were down around $2 million quarter-over-quarter and trading revenues were down about $10 million.
If we were to stay in this rate environment are there additional costs that can come out of that business? Hey it's BJ.
That business out there is very efficient from a fixed cost versus variable.
I'd probably take it at 2/3 or more variable versus fixed.
So it does actually look disproportionate if you will the revenue versus the expense decline.
We did mention that there were some legal and professional fees costs that offset the decline in the variable comp.
But you should generally see something like 40% to 50% variable to the fluctuation in the revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then within the mortgage company balances can you give us an idea of the mix between refi and purchase in that portfolio and how that's changed kind of quarter-over-quarter? Yes.
I think we had been running in the 70% 75% refi range.
I think we are still positive but it come down it's more in the 60% to -- the 60-40 range refi.
And I think as we go out we think that starts to continually shift more towards purchase volumes than refi.
I can't sit here today and tell you when that's actually going to cross over but we certainly have started to see that mix shift.
Our next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us some additional color on the existing FHFA litigation? I know there's probably a limited amount you can say being that it's ongoing.
But I guess can you just give us some update from the status and maybe just help us think about the likelihood of a settlement there or just how you can think about it? Hey John it's BJ.
Yes not too much new on the FHFA front.
Last quarter you would've seen us put up a RPO in that and that had taken probably 12 to 18 months to get to that point.
So it's a pretty slow and complex process as you might imagine.
So there's -- unfortunately I can't give you much of an update because there just isn't one at this point.
John this is Bryan.
Keep in mind this is a process where there are a number of people involved in this litigation that the litigation has been divided up into tranches and we're in one of the latter -- later tranches of litigation.
So right now we're just in a bit of a holding pattern as this continues to unfold.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the capital market side can you give us a little bit more color on your confidence in that reiterated ADR range of $1 million to $1.5 million particularly given the backup in rates here? I mean is there a risk that you're going to start to communicating a lower normalized range here? Hey John it's BJ.
If you look at what happened and again as Bryan and I both kind of mentioned April and May we're over the $1 million a day threshold and then June just really tanked [ph].
If you think about what happened and fixed-income businesses there were multiple players trying to reduce loan inventory as quickly as they possibly could to avoid marks as rates continued to spike up.
And so there wasn't a lot of buying activity in the market.
So everybody was kind of doing the same thing trying to reduce their positions.
But what we've seen in the last couple of weeks and will see if it continues to stay is much less variability in what the 10-year has been doing.
So just to give you an example I think intraday range of a 10-year over the quarter was something like 8 or 9 basis points.
Whereas usually historically over time it's 1 or 2.
I mean that is just massive dislocation and it started to come back and start to normalize a little bit more in terms of intraday.
So all of that leads to a cautious outlook on it.
But the belief that getting back to that lower end of the range where we were in April and May is certainly possible.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> BJ I wanted to ask a question.
You went out of the way on Page 10 to say that no expected material actions to reduce asset sensitivity.
When you look at the long end performance of about $9 million favorable 4 basis points.
And then if you look at the increase in short-term rates which is much more material can you see how at some point if we keep getting this let's say 2 years before our short-term rates go up that you would begin to reconsider that last bullet point and start accelerate the benefit of we could see a little more movement on the long end? Yes.
We -- what we've got is we've naturally got some fixed rate lending in our nonstrategic portfolio that we are purposely letting run off so we're not trying to retain a lot of that.
So what that's giving us is incremental opportunity to build more relationship-oriented lending in the regional bank that might have fixed rate characteristics.
So in aggregate though as fixed rate on nonstrategic is running off you're adding fixed rate relationship in the bank.
Your net asset sensitivity isn't changing all that much.
So again that's why we don't think we're going to see a material change in what our profile is.
We think we're well positioned but we are taking advantage of pockets of opportunity to grow relationship-oriented lending on the left side of the balance sheet to help us a little bit more both in the near term and the long term.
Marty this is Bryan.
We've -- as BJ described we want to use our long-term interest rate exposure or positioning to do customer activity to do customer business.
Fundamentally we don't believe in putting the carry trade on just to generate short-term earnings.
Taking interest rate risk is not where we think we create a lot of value for shareholders.
And so we're very deliberate about how we use the balance sheet.
We think the securities portfolio in particular ought to be used to provide liquidity to provide collateral and to manage that aggregate interest rate risk.
But we don't believe that we ought to put on long-term rates just to generate carry.
And so when we do as BJ described we do it for customer-oriented activity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And that kind of transitions me Bryan to my follow-up question was this is a kind of an inflection quarter.
BJ highlighted that the nonstrategic actually now was making a little money at least for this quarter.
So a lot of the overhang issues are kind of dealt with and now we're kind of starting to move over to the profitability and the overall kind of returns that you can generate.
A lot of the catalysts are things that happen like you kind of conditioned it long term.
How does that timeframe accelerate or how do you sort of see the earnings power beginning to improve as you're able to find more strategic opportunities? Yes yes.
I'm going to go back and look at the transcript to what BJ said to make sure.
I think he said he was going point it out because he might not get to it again.
We're not looking at that nonstrategic segment as a profit center.
I think a lot of it had to do with the improvement in credit quality and credit trends and who knows how that plays out.
But we think we've made significant progress there.
The nonstrategic portfolio was down about 18% year-over-year and we feel good about where we're positioned there but we also want to see it run off and get that segment of our history behind us.
We're still doing the same fundamental things as we think about our balance sheet for the long term.
We want to focus on growing our customer relationships in the core banking business.
We want to win all the business that we can win on a profitable business in the state of Tennessee and beyond.
We're expanding our efforts in the mid-Atlantic region.
Under John Fox's leadership we're making progress there.
And our capital market the FTN Financial business is doing very very well we're adding to our municipal capability.
So our focus is to continue to focus our capital allocation and our resources towards driving those activities that allow us to produce what we've laid out to the bonefish.
Those high-teens of 20% range ROEs and so we're taking a real disciplined approach about the balance sheet and how we deploy that capital to grow the business for sustainable long-term shareholder return.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question.
In terms of your net interest margin it's sounds like one of the reasons that it went up a little bit this quarter was because of the excess liquidity reduction.
How much excess liquidity do you have left? I mean could -- I got the 2.85% to 2.95% margin guidance.
But I'm just wondering if this potentially could be an area where it might actually drive margin above your current guidance? Ken it's BJ.
There's not a lot more that you will see in the second quarter in terms of excess balance opportunity going forward.
Now again that's going to fluctuate and it's actually a good thing.
Sometimes if it happens which means more customer deposit inflows that we can't find a short-term way to put to work.
So I'm not sure if you're going to see a lot there but I did in my opening comments give you some of the assumptions that I had around the outlook.
And you'll generally see that they're pretty realistic maybe more towards the cautious side.
So if we see a little bit more loan growth that could certainly help.
We certainly have done a good job.
Our bankers have done a good job of managing deposit cost down that can certainly be helpful.
And depending on what the competitive environment does to pricing pressures we could do better there.
So all that said I think I still feel pretty good about our range and hopefully we can get more towards the higher end of that range than the lower.
Research Division</strong> And with the range that you're referencing I mean is there anything -- what would materially get you out of that range? I mean aside from -- or is there anything aside from materially higher interest rates? Because it just seems a little bit starting [ph] loan growth a little bit less or more something else might kind of keep you in that range? I'm just wondering if there's anything where we could be surprised one way or the other aside from rates.
Well two -- I'll give you three impacts that are always material and they were three that really impacted us in the first quarter when we saw from fourth to first we saw pretty material declines in margin.
The first is fluctuation in balances from loans to mortgage companies.
Those yields 4.50% to 4.75% and they can move around pretty materially from quarter to quarter.
And so they could have a pretty big impact up or down on a net interest margin in any given quarter.
The second is like you've mentioned excess balances at the Fed they can have a pretty material impact depending on the size of the excess in any given quarter on the margin.
And the third is our capital markets' net interest margin.
Now we don't focus on that in that business that's a fee-based business.
But depending on whether or not we use the balance sheet to hedge our position on the balance sheet or off the balance sheet can have a material impact and that's what we saw from fourth to first.
It was pretty benign from first to second.
But those 3 are probably the biggest that are going to move it around one way or the other.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about your C&amp;I lending in your market? Have you seen any release over the last -- we know short-term rates haven't really moved but on a competitive front from some of the bigger players or even some of the smaller players? Paul this is Bryan.
I'll start and then I'll ask Susan to go into detail.
It's still an extraordinarily competitive environment out there.
We're seeing still a lot of cautious activity from borrowers in terms of new investment.
There might be just a marginal leaning towards a little bit more activity in this quarter than there has been but it's still very competitive.
And so most of the opportunities are more opportunities to win existing debt from competitors or so on and so forth but it's still a very very competitive environment.
Paul this is Susan.
I would agree with Bryan.
I think a little bit more activity in the second quarter some additional conversations with clients and prospects about potential income [ph] growth that a lot of what we're seeing are opportunities to refinance debt away from other banks.
I think our bankers are doing a great job of staying focused talking about the fact that we're a relationship bank oriented so that we get both a great asset quality maintenance as well as good pricing.
Research Division</strong> And are you guys going after some of the multifamily stuff that's out there? Yes Paul we are.
We're seeing some good opportunities in multifamily.
We typically stick within our footprint in surrounding areas as it relates to that.
We've got some great commercial real estate clients who are active in that market and we've done a very good job in the multifamily lending arena.
Research Division</strong> And back to the C&amp;I my last question is are you seeing any movement in the utilization rates? Are they still I believe in the high 20s? Actually on the commercial side our utilization rates are 43%.
They've been roughly that same amount the last 3 quarters.
In a more normalized environment you would see C&amp;I commercial utilization in the 55% to 58% range.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> You all spent some time earlier talking about the asset sensitivity and that you're positioned well for it.
Can you give a little color on what part of the curve the margin is most sensitive to? Specifically do you need the short-term rates to move up to get the margin benefit or is there another part of the curve that you would benefit from as we look forward? Kevin it's BJ.
Primarily the short end of the curve I mean if you think about our floating rate assets 67% of them are tied to LIBOR and it's -- virtually all of those were tied to 1-month LIBOR.
So we really need over time the short end of the curve to rise to really see that most positive impact to our asset sensitivity.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick follow-up.
I know you just recently had a failed bank acquisition and there hasn't been all that many of them in your footprint.
But how has that process gone and what's your latest outlook on M&amp;A opportunities in or around your current footprint in terms of do you get a sense there's more conversations activity or is there less willingness to sell out there? Kevin this is Bryan.
The Mountain National transaction has gone very very well to date.
We're very pleased with the progress that we're seeing there.
We've brought on a great group of folks.
We acquired 12 branches of recent consolidation opportunities for us as we convert later in the year.
The integration process is working well rolling out our credit processes and credit standards and re-engaging our lending efforts or their lending efforts in that market have gone very very well.
So we're pleased with the progress we see there.
We think the conversion for later this year is -- the planning for that is going very very well.
This is in integration conversion process.
It's not something that First Tennessee First Horizon has done organizationally for a few years so it's a great opportunity to test those processes and do it in a way that we ensure that it positions us to do additional activity in the future.
I don't know what happens in Tennessee in the short run.
We run strings all the time and look at things.
My guess is that we want to get very far down the path of getting Mountain National integrated and done right before we do anything else.
But as I said we think later this year we'll have Mountain National converted and we'll see what unfolds between now and then.
I don't sense in terms of the overall M&amp;A market a significant pick up in conversations of any real significance.
I hear anecdotes from time to time about what may be going on in the smaller institution market.
But my sense is there's probably a whole lot -- today it's a whole lot like it has been for the last 12 to 18 months.
It's still fairly slow.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the expense progress in the quarter you guys have kind of gotten to where you're hoping to be in terms of fourth quarter run rate.
And could you give us a sense of just a reflection of your ability to get expenses sooner than expected or is this more a reflection of I'll just say just kind of ongoing expense controls and maybe finding a little bit more there than you thought initially? It's BJ.
I think it's a little bit of all of that.
I think we started really focusing on these efforts maybe 3 years ago.
And so it takes a while to really kind of get through the entire organization and not just identify efficiencies that build the culture around efficiency.
And so I think we've really started more towards the end of last year and on into this year it really has started to see the fruits of those working from the last 2 years.
So we've certainly seen the identified efficiencies coming out and we're very pleased with that.
But culturally it's showing us more and more better ways to do things which is giving us incremental expense reductions that we hadn't been planning on.
So we're pleased with that.
And again we updated our guidance to say we now believe we're going to exceed our goal.
And as we've talked about in the past as revenues continue to be pressured we will manage to our bonefish and understand that there are things that we can control and things we can't.
The ones that we can control like the expenses we'll continue to work those down as effectively as we can without sacrificing revenue opportunity in the process.
Emlen this is Bryan.
I want to sort of echo BJ's last point.
Cost control is important.
And as you've said we've done a lot of work in that area.
But growing revenues supporting our customer activity providing high levels of quality services is very very important.
And so reducing cost is not a strategy in and of itself it is a part of our strategy to improve profitability.
BJ and his team have done a lot of great work over the last several years on it but we're -- and continuing to disaggregate the organization allowing us to continue to look at our organization in greater and greater levels of granularity.
And when you do that you see more and more pockets of opportunity.
They may not be as big dollar-wise but you continue to see opportunity to improve profitability around products or regions or the way we're doing this with that activity.
And so as I said in my comments earlier this is not so much a target-driven process.
It's a process driven around driving long term sustainable profitability which necessitates that you do things in a high-quality manner but you're also doing as efficiently as you possibly can.
And so I'm encouraged by the progress we've made to date.
I think BJ as well as our line of business leaders our bankers our folks all throughout the organization and the support areas are doing a great job focusing on how we get more efficient and more profitable over the long term.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then additionally are your expectations for the pace of runoff in the nonstrategic book changing at all? Is that kind of a mix of economic factors I guess to consider between improving home prices at least in the near-term kind of rising rates.
How are you thinking about just the pace with that book comes down? This is Bryan again.
It hasn't changed an awful lot.
I guess in the last couple of quarters the CPR rate on the home equity portfolio has picked up to about 20%.
I think it's down nonstrategic is down to about 18% year-over-year.
I think there's some natural acceleration as rates pick up and as that portfolio continues to age the vast majority if not all of it was originated 5 years or more ago.
More of it gets into amortization phase.
Now it continues to run down.
So it may pick up a little bit but there's nothing as we sit here today that we think is going to cause us to pick up significantly or change significantly over the next several quarters.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I'm just curious as to whether or not what was contributed to the downturn in the capital markets revenues aside from the market volatility was just your bank customers holding off and buying securities until they felt a little more -- little bit more confident about where yields were going.
And if the 10-year does continue to rise a little bit does that potentially bode for pressure on capital markets revenues going forward? How sensitive is that revenue line to rising rates? Matt this is Bryan.
Movement in the rates is going to influence it in short-term lenders.
We think with stability and 10-year rates or stability in the market all of the fundamentals are still there for customer activity in terms of investing or reinvesting in their securities portfolio.
So we think rates sort of gapped up a little bit here that created some instability.
It did lead to lower activity in terms of customer buying.
As I noted in my opening comments we did -- have seen a little bit of pickup in the early part of the third quarter.
The third quarter seasonally is a little more difficult.
But we're overall reasonably optimistic about where we see those average daily revenues for the foreseeable future I mentioned in the 1 to 1.5 range.
A lot of the impact in the second quarter was the impact of not only customer activity but as you see these moves the valuations on inventory and all of that impacts the revenues and all of it gets reported in a net basis.
So I think our folks out at FTN did a fantastic job managing through it.
I think we're well positioned.
I think we brought good liquidity the customers that wanted to move securities during this period and the market in general.
And I think we're extraordinarily well positioned for the next -- for the cycle that we're about to go through.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bryan maybe a bigger picture question for you.
Given your outlook for loan growth which still I think remains relatively muted in line with a lot of other banks we've heard from this week.
And your better-than-expected Basel III ratios.
Does that give you any greater level of confidence as you head into the capital planning process for '14? And if that's the case are buybacks any less attractive as your share price gets closer to 1.5x book than they might have been at 1.1 1.2? Well I guess in broader terms as Susan pointed out utilization rates are low.
We think in some respects we've put a lot of very high-quality relationship activity on the balance sheet over the last several years that's going to lead to a lot of fundings when the economy picks up.
We think we're going to be the beneficiary of an upturn in the economy.
That will allow us to use some of that capital.
And I was never quite as pessimistic on Basel III as the original proposal dictated.
I felt like it would come back.
So I never really thought about the full impact to Basel III and impact in our capital strategy.
As we said in the past we look at capital in the context what are our growth opportunities.
Clearly if we have opportunities to put the work -- the capital to work in the business that allow us to produce our bonefish-type returns that is our first choice whether it's organic or whether that's something like a Mountain National.
Then to the extent we have excess capital buyback and dividend are important tools in our ability to return that.
We're analytical about it too.
We look at what price and so on and so forth.
But as we sit here today it's hard to think about any big differences about how all of these might impact 2014 and beyond.
Our next question comes from Christopher Marinac of FIG partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bryan and BJ I just want to ask about the increased income from higher rates whether it's 100 or 200.
What are some of these -- your thoughts about the ability to lag upon deposit pricing as well as sort of retention of deposits as the higher-rate scenario plays out? Yes good question.
Generally speaking I think the first maybe 50 75 basis points have moved you'll see very little movement in deposit rates in terms of historical proportional movements as banks try to recapture some of the lost fee income and some of the lost net interest income that we've seen over the last couple of years.
After that it starts to get a little bit more interesting because in aggregate deposits are very very valuable.
So it remains to be seen what the competitive pressures will be.
The other wildcard I think from my perspective is what happens to the money funds.
The money funds have historically been a very strong competitor to deposits.
And there's a lot of pressure on that side on this money fund.
So in the first moves of a rising rate environment I don't think they're going to be very competitive.
And depending on what rules change there they may not be as competitive as they might have been in the past.
So all of that to say is we're expecting some modestly better deposit rate lag than what we would historically see.
But we're not -- we're a little bit more cautious on what competitive pressures are going to be over the long term.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess it cautions more after the first 75 to your point? Yes.
Our next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on the rate-sensitivity question.
It seems like it has come down a little bit over the past quarter.
So I just wanted to ask given that a lot of your sensitivity comes from the C&amp;I book as well as the home equity portfolio which is in runoff or parts of that equity run-off.
I guess what are you doing to maintain the level of sensitivity whether it's reducing duration or is it adding floating rate securities to the securities portfolio.
And in addition to that BJ you talked about competition on the deposit side.
But what are your underlying assumptions in terms of competition on the lending side? Are you assuming that as rates rise we see more competitive pressures weighing on spreads? Good question.
Maybe I'll start with the last.
As rates do start to rise we continue to believe there will be competitive pressures.
But I don't think that they -- we don't believe that they had intensified.
So generally speaking in rising rates we would expect on like assets to maintain the spreads that we have today on the asset side where would see the benefits certainly is lagging on the deposit side.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just Bryan as a follow up to one of the questions that we heard before regarding capital.
Now that we know the final rules and they have come in more positive just in terms of both AOCI and lower mortgage risk rates does it all change the way the level of which you think you have to run at? I know you've talked as part of the bonefish at 8% to 9%? But given that the capital volatility will probably be lower do you think this ends up pushing you closer to the lower end of that target relative to the higher end? I don't know that I feel any differently about that range at this point.
I think what's going to be important as you know the $10 billion to $50 billion banks are going to start the strip testing process in the late part of this year and on a formal basis with the OTC and the Fed will submit results in 2014.
We'll go through it again in 2015 and actually report the results and I think the way the rules are set up in 2015 we'll learn a lot through this process this year.
But as we sit here today I don't feel any -- I don't think I feel any different about the 8% to 9%.
I think I would've said if the rules came out whether 220 240-basis point impact you'd probably say given those high capital levels of some of the portfolios you might lean towards the lower end of the range.
But I think at this point we'll continue to be dictated by our stress test.
I think 8% to 9% is still a fair range to think about our long-term capitalization of an organization with a business mix that looks like ours.
Our next question comes from the Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones here.
BJ on the provision just for nonstrategic being down and the regional bank being up are either those shifts permanent or is this just kind of quarterly nuances? It's probably quarterly nuances.
But generally speaking we think that nonstrategic continues to improve.
Whether or not it's the magnitude of improvement that you saw first to second that's probably a little bit big it will probably normalize a little bit more.
On the regional bank side we're still seeing very good asset quality trends and metrics.
But if you look back at our quarterly results there we've actually had a provision credit in the regional banks in the last several quarters and this time we moved to an actual provision.
So I think the charge-offs in the regional bank were somewhere in the $8 million to $9 million range which is still a fantastic result.
It's just dependent on what our reserving models tell us about individual portfolios and where we believe it's prudent to set those reserves.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Bryan just a quick one for you.
You talked earlier about middle Tennessee and Southeast Tennessee being better.
So I'm guessing that Nashville Chattanooga Knoxville.
But give us an update on Memphis.
What's going on there? How you see the recovery progressing and a little bit on the outlook.
Yes the Memphis West Tennessee market continues to recover at a modest pace.
It's -- unemployment is latently a little bit higher in this marketplace but it continues to recover nicely sort of in line with the U.S.
recovery.
I am very very pleased with the work that I see our bankers are doing here and across the state.
But here in terms of winning customer relationships and growing in a market where we have a significant presence to begin with.
And I'm encouraged how we're positioned here.
And as the West Tennessee Memphis recovery continues to pick up pace I think we'll do very very well here.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for today.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Bryan Jordan for any closing remarks.
Thank you Allie.
Thank you all for joining our call this morning.
Please let us know if you have any additional questions and need additional information.
Please remember our investor day in November we'd love to have you join us.
Hope you all have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference call Ms.
Aarti Bowman.
You may begin ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we use in this call this morning are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings outlook materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and it is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Brian and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Brian.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
We're continuing to achieve positive results from successful execution of our strategic priorities gaining market share and delivering steady loan growth and solid returns in our core businesses.
We also continue to hit legacy issues head-on and added $200 million to our mortgage repurchase reserve which resulted in a net loss in the third quarter but was an important step as we continue to unwind from the mortgage business we sold more than 5 years ago.
We recently received significant new additional information on our outstanding GSE exposures.
As a result of that information we significantly expanded our repurchase reserve for conforming loans sold to the GSE.
Also this week we reached an agreement in principle to resolve certain rep and warranty repurchase obligations subject to Fannie Mae's governance and regulatory approval.
While we obviously don't like incurring this unexpected charge we want to continue being consistent and prudent with our repurchase reserve level.
BJ will provide more details in a few minutes but please keep in mind that we're somewhat limited in what we can say while we're working on the definitive legal resolution with Fannie Mae.
We're seeing good momentum in our regional bank.
The most recent FDIC data showed that we now have the #1 deposit market share in Tennessee.
In middle Tennessee we grew 4x faster than the market.
I'm especially pleased with these results since it demonstrates that our bankers have expanded our customer base and prioritized customer service while at the same time we've reduced costs and improved efficiency.
Year-over-year for the third quarter regional bank expenses are down a full 7%.
We've grown bank revenues 2% linked quarter.
We've kept average loans in the regional bank at the same level year-over-year.
Loans to mortgage companies have fallen as the overall mortgage market has softened and we expect mortgage activity will remain muted in the fourth quarter.
Our bankers are continuing to grow profitable high-quality loans with increases in both commercial and consumer lending.
Our loan pipeline remains solid and loan closings were up in the third quarter.
Economic political and interest rate uncertainty will continue to make quality loan growth challenging but we're seeing results from our strategy to grow our balance sheet with profitable high-quality loans.
We aren't making unprofitable risky loans just to show quarterly loan growth.
Instead we're positioning for the long term expanding and deepening customer relationships providing a full product set that profitably serves our customers' needs.
FTN Financial our fixed-income business continues to be an important contributor of our business mix with pretax earnings of $10 million in the quarter.
Market conditions impact fixed income -- market conditions impacted fixed income average daily revenues yet with uncertainty around the Fed's policy of quantitative easing.
The FTN Financial team generated an average daily revenue of $850 000 in the third quarter.
Asset quality trends remained stable and net charge-offs declined 80% and reserves decreased 9% year-over-year.
Overall trends are stable or improving.
Our capital ratio remains strong with Tier 1 common at 10.2% for the quarter.
We expect to continue to generate excess capital.
We remain committed to strategically and prudently getting excess capital back in shareholders' hands and we'll continue to evaluate capital return opportunities.
In the next few quarters we're going to be cautious about share buybacks with the addition to the repurchase reserve this quarter the FHA investigation where we have limited visibility into potential losses and the upcoming stress test.
Our overall philosophy of returning capital has not changed.
Our capital ratios remained strong as I said with Tier 1 common at 10.2% and we expect to generate excess capital.
It's easy to get overly focused on mortgage repurchase and litigation issues but we're focusing on the big picture.
I'm pleased with the positive trends in the third quarter the #1 ranking in deposits in Tennessee steady loan growth with yields holding up and higher revenues in the bank and good asset quality metrics.
With that I'll now turn the call over to BJ for more financial details about the third quarter and then I'll be back for some closing comments.
BJ? Great.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 7 with our third quarter consolidated financial results.
As we mentioned consolidated net loss available to common this quarter was $107 million or $0.45 a share.
The consolidated net loss was driven by the $200 million mortgage repurchase provision in our nonstrategic segment which had an after-tax impact of $152 million or a per share impact of $0.64.
Let's turn to Slide 8 where I'll review with you the factors that led to our change in estimate for our mortgage repurchase exposure.
As Brian mentioned at the beginning of the call we recently entered into discussions with Fannie and reached an agreement in principle just a few days ago.
As you've seen with others in the industry that have entered into these settlement agreements with either Fannie or Freddie the population of loans expanded.
Compared with previous information the additional information encompasses a broader population of loans including older vintages and expanded selection criteria from the remaining loan populations.
The addition to the reserve includes estimates for an expanded scope of selections estimates for future losses from other populations as well as vintages prior to 2005.
As you will recall we have used information on our Fannie exposure to extrapolate our estimated exposure to Freddie.
Therefore as we updated our Fannie estimates we have extrapolated our remaining Freddie exposure using similar assumptions of future loss content.
The mortgage repurchase reserve balance is on Slide 9.
Second quarter's reserve balance was $123 million.
In the quarter we had $30 million of net realized losses and had a remaining balance of $93 million.
The incremental addition to the reserve of $200 million was calculated by incorporating additional factors estimated with the Fannie agreement amount future MI rescissions related to Fannie loans excluded from the agreement Fannie bulk servicing sales excluded from the agreement the extrapolated estimate for Freddie and other mortgage-related impacts.
So at the end of the third quarter our reserve was there for $293 million.
Turning to Slide 10.
Looking at our segment highlights our core businesses continue to deliver solid performance with net income of $41 million or $0.17 a share in the quarter.
In the regional bank net income was $48 million a 13% increase from the second quarter.
Linked quarter our noninterest income in the bank grew 3% driven by growth in deposit transaction brokerage and other revenues.
Expenses in the bank were up 2% due to an uptick in professional fees and advertising costs and loan loss provision decreased 61% to $5 million reflecting continued stability in the bank's loan portfolio.
In our FTN Financial business net income was $6 million in the third quarter.
Fixed income revenue declined 7% on a linked-quarter basis with expenses declining 3% due to lower variable comp and a reduction in legal and professional fees.
We continue to see average daily revenue levels below our normalized expectations as the interest rate environment and uncertainty about Fed policy negatively impacted fixed-income activity across the space.
Over the long term in a more normalized environment we still believe that fixed income ADR levels in our business will be in the $1 million to $1.5 million range.
Again our net loss in the nonstrategic segment was $148 million.
Linked quarter's revenue were up 20% due to the effects of the agreement to sell substantially all our legacy mortgage servicing.
Expenses were $222 million which includes the $200 million of mortgage repurchase provision.
Moving on to Slide 11 we'll talk a little bit about regional bank balance sheet trends.
Average core deposits decreased slightly to $14.5 billion primarily due to large commercial and public deposit variability towards the end of the quarter.
Average loans were relatively steady at $12.2 billion.
On a linked-quarter basis consumer loans were up 3% and commercial loans excluding loans to mortgage companies were up slightly.
This solid growth was offset by declines in average loans to mortgage companies which were down from $1.1 billion in the second quarter to about $950 million as expected given the recent rise in mortgage rates and the resulting slowdown in industry mortgage refi volume.
We expect balances to decline from these levels in the fourth quarter given both rate uncertainty and seasonal softness in housing demand.
New loan growth combined with asset quality improvement has been positive resulting in an increase in pass grade loans emphasizing our focus on positioning our loan portfolio for returns in profitability.
Moving on to the consolidated balance sheet and margin trends on Slide 12.
You'll see our consolidated net interest income declined slightly while our consolidated net interest margin was up slightly linked quarter.
In the third quarter we saw higher reinvestment rates in the securities portfolio stable loan yields and modest decline in deposit rates paid and lower capital markets inventory offset by excess cash balances at the Fed.
Linked quarter our net interest spread improved 2 basis points to 356 basis points driven by those relatively stable loan yields and a deposit cost decrease of 3 basis points.
Sitting here today we expect a quarterly net interest margin in the range of 2.90 to 2.95 in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Currently our assumptions that would drive that includes: rates staying at current levels or rising modestly over time continued modest loan yield declines due to competitive pressures loans to mortgage companies below third quarter levels modestly improved yields in new investment securities an uptick in Fed balances going into year end stable capital markets inventory levels and a flat to modest growth in our loan portfolio.
Over the long term our asset sensitivity has positioned us well for rising rates.
Our consolidated loan portfolios comprised about 65% floating rate loans.
All else equal in a rising rate scenario a 100-basis-point increase would produce a 6% increase in NII and a few hundred basis point rise would be an 11% increase.
We continue to believe that an asset-sensitive balance sheet is key to our ability to generate strong profitability and returns over time.
Looking at Slide 13 on expenses our cost control remains a priority for us.
You can see since 2010 our consolidated run rate excluding the GSE-related expense has declined 19%.
We remain on track for our goal of annualized run rate of expenses at the $925 million level by year end.
Turning to Slide 14 and the positive story on asset quality.
Linked quarter our loan loss provision declined 33% to $10 million.
The decrease was due to improvement in loss rates and grades as well as lower NPLs.
Nonperforming assets declined 5% and net charge-offs decreased 11% linked quarter.
We expect asset quality trends to remain stable for the remainder of the year.
Wrapping up on Slide 15 with our bonefish view our core business trends are generally encouraging with our 12-month trailing core ROA at approximately 100 basis points and our core ROTCE at 11.3 and these solid returns in regional banking and capital markets demonstrate the strength of our core businesses.
And with overall Tier 1 common at 10.2% we continue to have a strong balance sheet to pursue profitable opportunities for growth.
We have a core banking and capital markets franchise that we believe over the long term will generate significant returns and profitability.
As we have done consistently over the last several years we're controlling what we can control.
And when we encounter a challenge in our legacy mortgage business like the one this quarter we deal with it quickly prudently and transparently as possible and we move on and we will continue to maintain that philosophy going forward.
We are proud of our franchise our leading market share positions in banking and fixed income our outstanding execution on expense reduction our strong credit quality and risk management culture our solid balance sheet and capital position and most importantly our people.
These attributes will continue to enable our long-term success.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Ron.
Thanks BJ.
Like BJ I'm pleased with the progress in our core businesses.
We're growing and deepening our customer relationships as well as gaining market share.
We're improving our operating efficiency as we streamline delivery channels and invest in new technology.
We're strengthening our balance sheet focusing on profitable quality loan growth while continuing to derisk.
We're going -- we're doing the hard work necessary to unwind from the mortgage business we sold in 2008.
In summary we're building a strong foundation for long-term profitable growth.
We're also making great progress in analyzing the economic profitability of our businesses and our products in a much more granular way so that we can better allocate internal capital for higher and more efficient returns.
These actions will also help us achieve our bonefish targets in the future.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start looking at the 2000 to 2004 vintages underlying the $200 million reserve what were the loans sold over that period and do you have the average rescission and severity rates? Hey Steve it's BJ.
What I'll do is I'll give you what our total originations were for Fannie and Freddie for 2000 and 2008 and that's about $148 billion.
And you'll see that what we had been talking about before that's in the deck as well is our '05 and '08 which I think was about 57.6.
So obviously the difference is the other vintages.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And BJ anything on the average rescission and severity rates? Are they any different from that vintage? Not that I can see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how are you guys thinking about the risk of having to provide for pre-year 2000 vintages? Well Steve this is Bryan.
With the agreement in principal in place for Fannie that is all-encompassing and so we don't expect that to be an issue.
We're not at the point of having an agreement with or really any discussions with Freddie at that point.
So I guess that's a possibility but at this point in the cycle we've not seen any requests from pre-2000 and we saw very few requests previously in the period from 2000 to 2004.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one final one for BJ regarding the sale of the mortgage service or at least what's left.
Is there any gain or loss tied to that maybe timing and what are the expenses that will go away with that? Yes.
So the write-up in the value -- in the book value that we saw related to the sale agreement is roughly at $11 million or so.
And we have a couple of offsets to that of $2 million or so related to liabilities that are associated with the sale.
So the net increase would be about $9 million or so on the quarter.
In terms of the revenues and expenses that go away a good ballpark estimate for you would be about $20 million or so of fee income in the nonstrategic segment and about $20 million or so of expenses over time.
Now we're -- we wrote up the value.
We have not yet transferred the servicing which will happen largely in the fourth quarter so you won't see those expenses all go away nor will you see the revenue go away right now.
But going into next year that's kind of the estimated impact.
The next question comes from Nicholas Karzon with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess first just starting on the loan growth side it looked like the core regional bank loan growth so excluding the loans to mortgage companies actually grew a little bit quarter-over-quarter.
I'm just kind of wondering if you can give us a little bit of color in terms of what you're seeing on the demand side and also if kind of mid single-digit growth is a reasonable expectation given what you're seeing over the next couple of quarters.
Nick this is Bryan.
I'll start.
I'm very very encouraged by what I think our bankers have accomplished in the last several quarters.
We saw good closings in the third quarter as you said.
We saw very good progress in commercial and consumer.
The one exception is we did see the decline in mortgage warehouse lending which is not unexpected given what's happened in refinance activity.
Our pipelines as we start the fourth quarter continue to be very strong.
We saw a slight uptick even in our -- what we would consider the agreement in principal or high probability of closing loans.
Now we've continued to win very attractive long-term relationships that we think will fund up very nicely as the economic recovery continues to pick up over the next several quarters.
So I'm very encouraged by -- Susan if there's anything you want to add from a detail perspective? Yes I think I will.
We are as Bryan said seeing some good relationship opportunities new relationships as well as deepening relationships with existing customers.
We're even proactively going out to some of our best customers and seeing if we can take additional share of loans that they may have with other banks as a way to grow prudently.
I'm also pleased to say that we're growing within our risk parameters and getting an appropriate risk return for those new loans that we're booking.
Research Division</strong> I guess as a follow-up can you give us the level of accretion from the MNB deal that you recorded in the third quarter? It would be very very modest a couple of million dollars.
Our next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the mortgage warehouse do you view this current level at around $700 million as a bottom tier for that portfolio? John this is Bryan.
Earlier this week it was a little less than 600 million.
So the short answer is no.
It's going to ebb and flow based on our borrowers activity.
So it's down a little bit even from quarter end through the early part of this week.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then on the expense side as you approach the 9.25 here can you give us a little more color on where do you see total expense levels going beyond the end of the year? What type of -- are there any additional outright cost-save opportunities that you're going to be prepared to quantify? Or is it just simply going to become blocking and tackling type of approach? This is Bryan and maybe you can get me and BJ to disagree on this even here.
We go back and forth about whether we ought to have goals or just make it a sort of foundational expectation.
We haven't set any goals at this point.
We -- I mentioned in the prepared comments the work that we're doing to further disaggregate the business and I think that is going to be a continued driver of efficiency efforts in the organization.
If you think about what we've done over the last couple of years we have been very proactive in reducing costs.
We've reduced them very substantially and every step that you go it gets harder and harder and so you've got to have more and more information to either benchmark against or look at the profitability and to look horizontally across the organization.
And I think the disaggregation work that BJ and the finance team have led will be very helpful in allowing business unit managers and leaders to look at their businesses and understand the cost components in a whole and different way.
So I think that will be a driver.
We're going to continue to focus on the expense levers.
We think we have continued opportunity there.
We don't think the buckets are huge.
We think we've got to continue to disaggregate and go at things and look at processes across the organization and look at them in terms of line of business and product set.
So I'm optimistic that we'll continue to see progress.
Yes.
I'd just add to Bryan a little more empirically I don't see the 9.25 being -- flattening out through 2014.
I think that is a waypost if you will for the end of the year.
And I think based on how our people are managing expenses and what Bryan just talked about I would expect us to continue to bring that number below that level going into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then lastly on the mortgage litigation side.
I know you probably can't say much but I know Bryan you indicated that you have limited visibility on the HUD side.
Can you give us anything else there in terms of like the duration or how much time we could be sitting here waiting for a potential answer there? Yes the short answer is we don't know how much time and because we're not completely in control of the timeline.
I made some comments about 1 month 1.5 months ago which are -- really not anything has changed in that regard since then.
You may recall from our second quarter release in Q we talked about having a very small sample to look at.
We did complete the re-underwriting.
We had as you might imagine a very different view about the level of exceptions or underwriting areas that we're in in that portfolio.
We have submitted that or returned that information and shared that with FHA and HUD but we've not had any real further discussion on that.
In addition we've done some work about around sampling methodologies and things like that and we have some very significant questions that -- about how samples were selected so on and so forth.
So we don't have a real timeline.
We've got some very substantial differences in our view about how we're viewing the data and how the data was even selected.
So we think it's going to take some work and some time to sort of work through that.
Our next question comes from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Help us understand some of the capital ratios that you're targeting with return to capital to shareholders given all the litigation that's out there and just give us a little bit more color around that.
Yes.
This is Bryan Kevin.
The -- we've been fairly open about we think on a longer-term basis the organization needs to be in the 8% to 9% Tier 1 common.
And as BJ and I both commented earlier we're a little over 10% 10.2% at this point.
We did take this charge and we think we're going to continue to generate excess capital as the several -- next several quarters continue to unfold.
We're not -- we don't have a short-term target at this point about where we ought to be at December 31 or March 31.
We're just looking at all the moving parts.
We recognize that we've got a new stress test process that we're going to work through with the regulators over the next several months.
And as we look at what's -- where are all the moving parts in the mortgage repurchase charge that we took this quarter and the unknowns around FHA we're willing to let capital build for the next couple -- few quarters anyway.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we were to -- capitals building and let's just say you did have some settlements come through where it did hit your capital and everything settled out could you -- to offset some of the capital hit from this litigation would you consider selling your vis--vis shares or -- and do you see maybe the Sentinel insurance ongoing litigation that's occurring there being a source of capital? Well there are always a number of different levers that are available to us as an organization and I wouldn't prejudge what if anything we might do if we were to reach a settlement on any matter that's outstanding.
I mean we'll judge that in the context of the timing and the settlement and make those decisions.
I feel like we have a very strong capital base.
I feel like it's adequate to cover us and to support exposures.
As we work through the stress test we'll have the opportunity to work through that with our regulators again.
So I hate -- I would be hesitant or hate to judge or prejudge what we might or might not do what levers we may or may not pull at this point.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Yes my questions have been answered.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping just on the agreement with Fannie Mae I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the decision there to go back to the 2000 vintages.
As Bryan you indicated earlier you guys haven't seen much in terms of requests in those vintages before.
So just curious if that was a stipulation of the agreement from Fannie's perspective if you were starting to see more putbacks from that vintage from them.
Just some color around that would be helpful.
Yes yes.
This is a discussion that really unfolded pretty rapidly in the last 2 to 3 weeks.
And as we analyzed the data from our perspective 2005 2008 was a much more appropriate timeframe but they have a template in the way they work through these things and I think it's a reasonably generic template from what we can tell across other settlements that have been reached.
And in 2002 -- excuse me 2000 to 2004 needed to be considered in that.
So as we worked through it and all the moving parts and we think we've reached a reasonable number to settle this.
As BJ and I both indicated it's an agreement in principal at this point.
They've got to get approval from their governance processes but we have moved the ball down the field and I think it's important that we get that part of the GSE repurchase exposure ring-fenced and done.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay thanks.
And then if I look at just -- if I look at kind of the repurchased reserve what was -- charge-off this quarter was $30 million and it sounds like you've got about $80 million of kind of expectations for Fannie left.
And so a big chunk of that new provision went against some of the other potential rep and warranty counterparties I guess.
Did you -- I mean are you seeing a -- are you expecting settlements from any of those guys in the near future? Are you seeing kind of a pickup in requests from those other bodies? Yes this is Bryan again and the Freddie Mac is the other big piece that is out there in terms of a potential settlement.
As I mentioned earlier we really haven't had any active dialogue at this point.
Our sense is that Fannie Mae may have been a little bit ahead in terms of submitting requests but we expect that over the next couple of quarters we will see -- excuse me see substantially all or most of the Freddie Mac requests.
We sense that they're making a significant effort to get this wrapped up over the next quarter or 2 or 3.
We have seen a pickup in their request to date and as BJ described we're in a process where we don't have as much information and we haven't had as much information around Freddie Mac as we've had Fannie Mae.
So we have done some extrapolation and we basically use this -- or in this process reserve to a level that we think gets into a similar level as Fannie Mae.
I'd just add as well and remind you that we were largely a planning shop up until 2008 and so most of our Freddie originations were during 2008.
So that could also be a big part of the lag if you will but that is contributing to it.
Our next question comes from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on that.
So you're saying that Freddie was basically only 2008 or mostly 2008? It was most of our 2008 originations yes.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the extrapolation that you were talking about for Freddie isn't so much that '00 to '04 time frame but the aligning of the scope? Good question.
As Bryan kind of talked about we've always had much more limited visibility from Freddie against Fannie.
So with that even though we understand where we did the originations what the vintages were and what our actual claim requests are coming in from Freddie the reality of estimating future exposure is reliant on our history largely with Fannie.
So when we entered into these discussions with Fannie and they indicated that they were going back in vintages and we recognized that there was an expanded scope of selections as we're doing our loss content estimates for Freddie we have to take that into account that they may or may not behave the same.
But the way that we are trying to allocate our reserves we had to take that into account.
Our next question comes from Brian Foran with Autonomous.
I was wondering on the warehouse banking business if you could talk about the profitability of that business now versus history.
It seems like it's been high.
But I also don't know how much of that is just changes in market structure and competition.
I guess overall can -- the balances are clearly resetting.
Do we have to reset the ROA on that business lower too or can it stay where it's been? Yes Bryan it's BJ.
As we talked about before we really like the profitability and structure of that business model.
So it's actually very much like our FTN Financial business.
It's going to be extremely profitable and at some point it's just have very good profitability and good returns on equity and good returns on assets.
So what we have seen over the prior year was maybe abnormally high profitability from it as we saw good volume there.
But even as the volumes come down our expenses are very efficient and low.
We have not seen a significant deterioration in our yields in that business.
It certainly has gotten more competitive but we have not lost a -- any primary relationships that I'm aware of.
And again our pricing has held up well.
So the business is very well managed.
We like the returns on it and we're very pleased with what they're doing in this environment.
And then I guess coming back to the $925 million target and the expectation that it goes lower in 2014 any sense of how much lower it can go? Go ahead.
Bryan? You wanted to give [indiscernible] a number there.
I have to try.
Yes this is the debate where we set the -- whether we set goals around it.
The long run -- BJ and I laugh about it because we've had this long-running debate about whether we set goals and I don't want there to be a stopping point and he said "Well if you don't set a goal there -- it's easy to get to a stopping point." So we still are at target.
We haven't set a goal internally.
I think we could be under $900 million.
I expect that we will be for next year.
I don't think I have a number in mind as a goal at this point.
If I could sneak one last one in if you look back over time at the FTN capital markets business is there any kind of consistency around when you do have these kind of funks where you dip below the normal fixed income average daily revenue? Does it tend to stay there for a while and remain cyclically depressed or does it bounce back? And I guess if you could just link it to the broader backdrop of interest rates? It's -- I guess the concern would be maybe 1 to 1.5 is still a good normalized range but for the next year we're below that level? Yes.
There are some historical patterns that I would -- I'll let BJ refer to but I would preface it by saying I'm not sure how good historical patterns will actually be when you have the Fed and its involvement in quantitative easing and the impact of is the Fed going to taper its quantitative easing or not what's going on in Washington over the last month or so around the size of the federal government particularly as the government opened and what does the debt limit look like.
So that may take some of these historical patterns and disqualify them as something for predicting for the future.
Yes.
And what I'd add is the way Mike Kisber our head of FTN would describe it as spotty.
If you look at our average daily revenues of $850 000 it's extremely sensitive day by day to what the news flow is and where rates are moving.
So in the quarter we had days that were as low as a couple of hundred thousand and there were days that were well over 1 million to average to 850 000.
Now that would tell you that if there is a better stream or at least a more consistent stream of news that calms markets and makes rates a little more stable that could certainly help us and we could go back up towards the million.
But based on the uncertainty that we're seeing right now as Mike said it's spotty.
And so we see it maybe for at least another quarter or 2 in a less than normal range.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Placet for Matt's team.
Just a quick question on loan spreads.
Slide 12 shows that loan spreads actually ticked higher this quarter.
I was just curious if there was any noise in there or is that indicative of what core loan spreads did this quarter? And then can you just talk about the level of kind of lending competition currently? Okay yes.
Well I think part of what we saw in terms of increasing loan spreads which related to consumer lending growth that we saw in the bank I talked about 3% growth linked quarter a lot of that is actually installment lending real estate installment lending where we've seen pretty good opportunity to lend to higher-quality borrowers more on towards the jumbo side and we've been able to get attractive yields there.
So it's really a little bit of a mix issue on new originations for commercial lending.
We've seen yields staying very stable.
And our bankers I think have done a good job on both new originations and renewals even as pricing pressure has continued to come off quite a bit.
Yes I mean we expect to see some continued pricing pressure but again I think we're doing a great job of talking to clients about the value added that we have.
As I mentioned earlier we do have a focus on increasing to very highly-rated borrowers and so those obviously come at slightly lower spread.
But again I think our risk-reward profile is where we want it.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I know we've hit a lot on this this morning the topic of the mortgage repurchase.
But just extending it over to the private label side the fact that Fannie has chosen to broaden the scope of the loans that its looking at in terms of time frame back to 2000 does this change the risk profile of what's out there on private label? I know in the slide you've always talked about 2005 through 2007 you originated and securitized $27 billion.
But do we have to think of that time frame as expanding and do you feel better or worse about that risk today versus last quarter? Kevin this is Bryan.
This doesn't really change how we're thinking about the private label securitizations.
The last securitization we did was in the fall roughly about 6 years ago.
By the end of this year all of them will be at least 6 years old.
I think in the slides I think 99% of them already are.
And those securitizations have continued to pay down pay off.
At this point we have not received any requests for loan repurchases.
If you -- it's detailed out in the slides pretty well.
I think it's something like 75% or 77% of those securitizations are outperforming cohorts.
We didn't have the -- excuse me the subprime securitizations.
Ours were principally jumbo and Alt-A.
We've seen better performance as I noted.
So our thinking really hasn't changed.
We don't think that the scope changes there.
We think the reps and warranties are very different.
We think the timelines for making rep and warranty requests are potentially different.
There's a whole different environment around it.
So our view really hasn't changed at this point about exposure on the private label securitizations.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> But the big risk remain -- on the private label side then remains litigation and FHFA being the bigger one correct? I think that's right.
I think there is -- there are always risks around it but it seems to us that the biggest risk is the FHFA litigation.
But we've detailed the performance in the slides again.
We've continued to see well over 50% of that paid down.
A very substantial portion of those loans are current at this point.
Aggregate losses or cumulative losses are a reasonably small percentage but that's on a drawn-out litigation process where I think they're 9 or 10 the I guess folks still involved in that litigation.
I think we're in the third tranche to be litigated maybe the second of 2 at this point but that's just going to take some time to resolve but that is the 1 litigation point that we see to be larger risk.
There are a few smaller ones that are noted in the slides and you can see the performance on those securitizations and cum loss et cetera but by far the largest is FHFA.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerby with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two broad questions for you.
I guess just on -- in terms of the settlement can you just help us or be clear in terms of what exactly is that covering? And the reason I ask is because there was some statements in your press release saying it excludes all the loans that you've sold right through bulk sales that you no longer service.
And I look at your reserve and it seems that the Fannie reserve the $80 million or so I mean it's a very small piece of the total reserve that you've built.
So just trying to get a handle on when we're talking about the settlement are we really talking about a much smaller piece than the total amount of originations at risk? Yes.
I'll answer that.
And again as Bryan said at the beginning we've got to be careful because we don't have the final agreement in principal.
But what I would say is the settlement agreement will cover probably 60 to -- probably 70% of the loans and what would not be included would be about 30% of the loans that were ultimately sold to Fannie.
So again we'll use the same methodology the same views the same information to build our estimate both related to the settlement and what those loans look like as well as what our future exposures would look like that were excluded from the settlement.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right that helps.
And then the other question I had just in terms of the mortgage banking line or the sale of the mortgage servicing you mentioned a number of $20 million earlier in the call.
But I'm looking at your sort of net servicing line it's clearly the hedging and the runoff but it's running somewhere in the range of I don't know $8 million to $9 million per quarter.
So how should we think about the $20 million versus sort of the current run rate of servicing income? Yes.
So there's a couple of different pieces to it.
The major components are the servicing income and the ancillary fees that come off of servicing.
You've got hedge results which essentially look at the value fluctuation of the MSR asset itself as well as the offsetting hedge assets.
And so the net gain there you've got carry income related to the hedge assets as well.
So when we sell the servicing the MSR gain or losses kind of go away.
The hedge assets are going to go away.
The carry income from the hedge assets are going to go away.
The servicing income is going to go away and the servicing -- the subservicing expense is going to go away.
So I tried to simplify it already and I can -- would be happy to give anybody more detail on it but all in it adds up to about $20 million a year of revenue and expense that would really go away.
Research Division</strong> So right -- and so it's fair to assume that right now this is actually -- you're not making any money on this business? The carry income from the hedge assets is essentially where we would be making money from it but we think that we can reinvest that into something else that largely offsets it.
It wouldn't be very material to be able to offset that carry.
Yes we don't have to be in the servicing business to do that.
We can do that in the securities portfolio.
Right.
Our next question comes from Kevin Reynolds with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
One is I guess more housekeeping.
When you estimate the impact of that the repurchase-rebuild quarter and what was the tax rate that you used on that? Was it somewhere at 24% 25%? Yes we've been using our year-end effective tax rate which essentially you take your forecasted earnings for the year you take an incremental tax rate on that and then you back out your permanent tax differences to come up with an effective tax rate and so that's about 24% and that's what was used here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess sort of bigger-picture question as I look through -- I know you all have been pretty consistent in addressing the bonefish as kind of the driver of your strategy and where you're taking this over the long term.
But when I look at Slide 15 at the bonefish a couple of things that sort of jump out at me is that right now it appears that net charge-offs or credit costs are below the range that you talk about for normalized and fee income's at the high end of the range.
So the last 2 pieces that could move there would be your margin and your efficiency ratio and I suspect that the margin would drive the -- the margin higher would drive the efficiency ratio down if the others are sort of all else equal at the top end of the range and kind of topping out there.
So the question I've got is how much of that efficiency ratio moved from the mid-70s in the core businesses down to the low- to mid-60s? It would be directly related to a margin increase in a different interest rate environment because it seems that just moving each of those numbers to the midpoints of the range you're talking about a 15% 16% increase in the margin that would drive a 20% increase in the -- or improvement in the efficiency ratio.
So that's one conceptual question.
And then beyond that what has to happen for us to get to the bonefish profitability targets and how long might that take? Are we talking sort of 18 months or are we talking maybe 3 years assuming Fed policy doesn't change much? Kevin it's BJ.
I'll start.
If you actually slip -- if you flip to Slide 5 where we talk about our core business positioning we do have some commentary in the bullets around efficiency ratio and NIM about what that does with certain interest rate increases.
So on the efficiency ratio you'll see at the bottom that a few hundred basis point rise in rates would essentially improve efficiency ratio about 400 bps and our margin would rise $70 million annually.
If you translate that into basis points it's roughly 40 basis points.
So going back to your comment for our core businesses they're at 321 today whereas consolidated it's 299.
As nonstrategic rolls off what we're going to have left is roughly that core business number.
You add on a 200-basis-point increase in rates and we're pretty close to -- in the range of our long-term targets.
On the efficiency ratio side the nonstrategic portfolio is obviously not helpful to our efficiency ratio.
So if you're combining increasing rates with the continued runoff of those expenses we would project that on a 200 basis point rise or more that we would be able to be getting into our efficiency ratio targets.
So as you alluded to we constantly recalibrate our ability to get to these bonefish targets.
Right now it's largely predicated on rates rising and so we are trying to manage our asset sensitivity for the long term to be able to do that while also being prudent in trying to manage as well for the short term in controlling what we can control.
So I feel comfortable that over time that we can get there.
I'm not sure I can take a time frame unless you can tell me when rates are going to rise but we're going to continue to do everything that we can do to tighten up these numbers as we wait for rate changes.
Kevin this is Bryan.
I'll pick up on BJ's comments.
I think one of the more difficult questions that we're keeping an eye on in the short run is what our interest rates are going to do and when are they going to move.
And as we've talked about and as evidenced in the capital markets business the long-term point of the curve has gone up very substantially since May of this year.
It's come back down on the talk of whether the Fed tapers its quantitative easing or not but we're going to pay a lot of attention to expectations of rates.
And I think that if it looks like everything is getting pushed out I think you referenced 3 years -- 18 months to 3 years where we think rates are going in that period will maybe cause us to rethink what our interest rate sensitivity positioning ought to be and whether we need to be as asset-sensitive or whether we can use some of this time to do some fixed-rate customer lending that allows us to build relationships.
So it's hard to answer in the context of market expectations today because they have been so volatile over the last several months as talk about what the Fed may or may not do has driven the long end of the curve.
But we're keeping an eye on it we're paying a lot of attention to it and we're making evaluations or decisions around how we position our balance sheet in the context of where and when we think rates will actually trend down.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the servicing.
You had about $15 billion.
Is all of that going away? And what portions -- can you give us a little feel? Maybe I just missed it but is it a complete sale or is it the sale of everything that doesn't have some kind of -- still kind of overhang issue tied to it? Or kind of what's the magnitude of that? Yes it's substantially all of our servicing.
We'll still do a modest amount of -- we'll ask for a modest amount of subservicing from that provider related to permanent mortgage loans that we still have on our balance sheet.
But by and large that $15 billion would go away.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just going back to the discussion about revenues it really is whatever revenue is in the nonstrategic hedging-wise everything and that all pretty much just goes away? That's right.
There'd be maybe $3 million or $4 million a year of subservicing expense that would hang around related to the permanent mortgage loans that we're still keeping on balance sheet but everything else from an expense side related to subservicing would go away.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then when we say down in the repurchase part bulk servicing sales as a part of the -- what's left over as you sold these you haven't really sold -- they haven't purchased the liability.
So that kind of has still remained.
Even though you've kind of over time pushed the -- been able to sell servicing the liability from repurchase still has stayed with the company I think right? Yes with the previous bulk servicing sales that is true.
That is true.
But as I think you're alluding to with agreement in principal with Fannie Mae that issue was resolved.
And then any liability with the Freddie Mac or other loans would still reside with us and that's encompassed in the reserve that we've talked about this morning.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's what I was thinking.
And then Bryan as you're going into -- it's kind of what I was lastly want to think about was if you put the mortgage repurchase issue into 4 buckets Fannie Freddie HUD FHA private label and kind of just walk through it the reserving you took this quarter in my mind what we have heard from Fannie and Freddie represents this year and wanting to kind of wrap this up and agree.
In a sense as you're doing that you would expand the scope to kind of include anything that you might think of.
Is that kind of the process that you feel like you just went through with them as you're entering this settlement in general not specifically but just in general? This is kind of a -- okay if we can imagine what this is ever going to turn out to be if you're going to be in their shoes you want to kind of put a final number on it is that kind of what we've gotten to here? Yes there's no doubt that we're frustrated that this issue is -- we're still dealing with it and we're frustrated and don't like making the additional charge.
But as we have done over the last 5 6 years to the extent that we see a problem we try to size it up and we try to aggressively deal with it.
And as we got into this process we saw a different look at the information.
We saw vintages included that we didn't expect to be included et cetera which we've been through before and we wanted to proactively deal with it in the same way we've dealt with so many issues in the past.
And as BJ and I have tried to describe with Freddie Mac there are substantial differences in vintages and vintage years and ultimately there will be differences in performance.
But we felt like given what's encompassed here it was appropriate for us to have similar levels of reserves in terms of losses as we've seen in Fannie Mae given that we have better transparency of the information at Fannie Mae.
So as BJ described it we've basically taken Fannie Mae and tried to extrapolate those results to Freddie Mac recognizing there will be some differences but we only have the information we have.
Our last question comes from Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question about share purchases on the equity side.
Is there a percentage of income that you have to or that you need to manage to within your regulatory relationships? Chris this is Bryan.
No.
We've been over the last year or so returning substantially all of our net income.
And given the dynamics of our balance sheet where we have 18% 20% runoff in the nonstrategic portfolio that frees up the pro rata basis 10.2% Tier 1 common using the September 30 numbers we accrete at common that's going to free up there that supports growth in the balance sheet.
So historically we've had a view that returning a fair amount of our earnings substantially all is appropriate and we think that's not likely to change over the long term.
We think as I mentioned earlier given the new information around the GSE repurchases that we got in the settlement of this -- reaching this agreement in principal to be a little more cautious over the next couple of quarters as we deal with that as we try to gain additional information with respect to the FHA investigation.
It's ongoing and as we work through the stress test.
But there are no bright lines that I'm aware of from a regulatory perspective other than sort of the mix.
And it's what we've talked about in the past.
There seems to be a -- what I think is a reasonable desire to have a threshold about how much is in dividend and how much is in buyback.
I may argue that the dividend could be a little bit higher but I think there are some bright lines around mix but I don't think there are any bright lines about how much of earnings in that regard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then just the last question on the whole mortgage repurchase stuff today.
On Slide 22 you mentioned within the pipeline request that there's $97 million of nonrepurchase request.
But could you just remind us or refresh our memory from the past what covers this sort of nonrepurchase types of requests? Nonrepurchase-type requests those are things like documentation requests.
So they may or may not be related to a repurchase or link-all request and may simply be hey there's an appraisal missing or a verification of income missing or a spousal signature missing that kind of thing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so would there be less loss content on that particular tranche? Yes on those type of things yes absolutely.
I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference over to Bryan for closing remarks.
Okay thank you operator.
We appreciate your interest in First Horizon and look forward to seeing you in Memphis on November 21 at our Investor Day.
We'll focus on the progress we've made and how we are positioning ourselves to continue to move forward as we transition into 2014.
Thanks again for participating on the call this morning and please reach out to any of us if you have any follow-up questions or additional information that we could help gather for you.
Thank you again.
Hope you all have a great weekend.
Well ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for this conference call Ms.
Aarti Bowman.
You may begin ma'am.
Thank you Kevin.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in the call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
I'm pleased with what we accomplished in 2013 as we continue to take actions to build franchise value and our long-term profitability.
We successfully executed on our blue-chip priorities providing differentiated customer service being easy to do business with and using the bonefish to drive profitability.
We continue to build our core businesses wind down on our strategic legacy business and derisk our balance sheet.
We gained the top deposit share spot in Tennessee we seized an opportunity for growth successfully acquiring and integrating Mountain National Bank.
And facing a challenging environment we focused on controlling what we could control working to increase efficiency productivity and economic profitability.
Our core businesses performed well.
From 2012 to 2013 average loans in the regional bank grew 2% and average core deposits were up 2%.
Our specialty lending areas in particular should continue to provide growth opportunities as we deepen existing relationships and expand our overall customer base.
Our bankers are focused on making profitable loans which should give us higher returns over the long term.
On the expense side regional bank expenses declined 7% while we continue to selectively invest in additional talent products and technology.
The bank's efficiency ratio improved 297 basis points for the full year 2013 to 63%.
FTN Financial our fixed income business continues to contribute significantly to our overall fee income with pretax earnings of $52 million in 2013.
Due to uncertain market conditions we're still seeing lower volumes in fixed income.
However FTN Financial remains a high-return business with an annual ROA of 1.4% and ROE of 20.4%.
Our overall cost controls paid off in 2013.
Annual consolidated expenses declined 16%.
While we were disappointed with having to add $200 million to the mortgage repurchase reserve in 2013 we were able to make progress in winding down some of the legacy issues.
As expected asset quality improved year-over-year.
Full year net charge-offs declined 58% and reserves decreased 8%.
Nonperforming assets were up 4% to $435 million which included about $50 million of nonperforming loans related to further implementation of regulatory guidance as well as $17 million of ORE related to the Mountain National acquisition.
Our capital ratios remained strong with Tier 1 common at 10.7%.
During 2013 we returned capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and common dividends.
At our recent investor day we spent a lot of time talking about economic profit.
In 2014 we'll continue to work on optimizing economic profit across the organization from a business product and relationship standpoint.
Our bankers will continue their focus of growing relationship-oriented loans.
We'll continue to refine our lines of business to emphasize higher-return more profitable better-credit quality areas that maximize prudent growth opportunities.
We'll also continue to be focused on improving our efficiency and productivity.
Over the long term we expect these efforts to pay off with higher shareholder returns.
I'll now turn the call over to BJ for more financial details about the fourth quarter.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start on Slide 7 with our consolidated financial results.
You'll see in the fourth quarter consolidated net income available to common was $49 million or $0.21 a share.
You will notice 2 significant items in the quarter one with respect to taxes and the second the addition to our litigation reserve that I'll walk you through.
On taxes you'll see that the effective tax rate for both the quarter and the year were negative reflecting the combination of pretax income levels permanent benefits from tax credit investments life insurance tax-exempt interest.
And in the fourth quarter the tax expense was favorably affected as well by the pattern of quarterly earnings in 2013 as well as some discrete tax items.
To give you a quick high-level tutorial on effective rate methodology in a little bit simpler terms what you do is you estimate earnings and known tax credits or differences at the beginning of the year to calculate an effective tax rate that you would use each quarter.
When you have a large change in the estimated earnings level particularly when that changes later in the year like what we had in the third quarter it can have a very large impact in any given quarter like what we see here in the fourth to ensure that the full year tax rate is appropriately calculated.
So all in for 2014 looking forward what you should assume is an effective tax rate in the low 30s for us.
In addition we made a $30 million addition to the litigation reserve related to existing legal matters.
So the net of those 2 items had roughly a $0.06 positive impact in the quarter.
Moving to segment highlights on Slide 8.
In the fourth quarter our core businesses contributed $45 million in net income up 13% linked quarter.
In the regional bank net income was $43 million down $5 million from 3Q.
Linked quarter our NII was down in the bank on lower average loan outstandings while noninterest income was relatively steady.
Expenses were up driven by costs primarily related to branch closings and an increase in professional fees towards the end of quarter.
Loan loss provision decreased reflecting continued stable credit trends in the bank's loan portfolio.
In our fixed income business at FTN net income was $7 million in the fourth quarter.
Linked quarter fixed income average daily revenues declined just modestly to $822 000.
Expenses decreased primarily due to lower variable comp on that lower revenue.
ADR levels as you'll see were below our normalized expectations as the current interest rate environment as well as seasonality muted fixed income activity in the quarter.
Over the long term and a more normalized environment we still believe that fixed income average daily revenues will be in the $1 million to $1.5 million range.
However over the first half of 2014 we do expect average daily revenues to remain generally consistent with what we're seeing today in terms of 4Q '13 levels slightly below that normalized range.
Net income in the nonstrategic segment was $4 million.
Noninterest income was lower linked quarter primarily due to higher servicing income in the third that included terms of the servicing sale agreement.
Fourth quarter reflected the beginning of servicing transfers related to our sale that will be substantially complete in the first quarter.
Expenses in 4Q '13 included that $30 million addition to the litigated -- litigation reserve.
And the nonstrategic segment also included about $44 million as a tax benefit.
Moving on to the regional bank balance sheet trends on Slide 9.
Our average loans in the bank were up 2% full year 2012 to 2013.
As anticipated average loans to mortgage companies decreased due to lower refi volumes but returns on that business remained strong.
And despite the decreases in that loan-to-mortgage company line we are seeing good momentum in other loan portfolios.
From 2012 to 2013 commercial lending grew 10%.
Asset-based lending was up 6%.
Our business banking was up 9%.
And on the consumer side private client and wealth management was up 8% as well as our retail banking.
We'll continue to focus on specialty lending areas that have higher returns and economic profitability going into 2014 as well.
Moving on to the consolidated balance sheet and margin trends on Slide 10.
Average total assets remained stable again at $24 billion.
Linked quarter our consolidated net interest margin was up about 1 basis point to 2.98%.
Fourth quarter NIM benefited from about 4 basis points of higher amortization associated with loans acquired in the Mountain National acquisition as well as higher-than-expected cash basis income.
That benefit was somewhat offset by roughly 3 basis points of lower balances to mortgage companies and an increase in excess balances at the Fed.
Sitting here today we do expect quarterly net interest margin in 2014 to be in the same 2.85% to 2.95% range that we've given over the last few quarters.
If you'll recall and as we see in the bottom left chart on Slide 10 we had significant movement in our NIM from 4Q '12 to 1Q '13 last year with stabilization in the margin throughout the rest of the year.
A similar pattern could occur in 2014.
Our assumptions around the margin for next year include rates staying at current levels or rising modestly over time loan yields modestly declining due to competitive pressures loans to mortgage companies decreasing from fourth quarter levels and new investment security yields flat to slightly higher.
The level of excess cash at the Fed and our capital markets inventory are likely to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter also impacting the net interest margin.
You'll notice that the manager interest sensitivity we have recently begun adding fixed rate product in both loans and securities at about the 3- to 5-year maturities which has modestly reduced our asset sensitivity and allows us to compete well in the current environment through relationship lending opportunities.
Overall you'll see that our balance sheet remains highly asset-sensitive and should enhance our ability to generate higher returns over the long term.
Moving to Slide 11 and looking at our nonstrategic business.
In mortgage repurchase you'll see that provision expense was 0 in the fourth quarter.
Linked quarter the repurchase price line declined 37% to $197 million and our ending reserve was at $195 million.
New requests and realized losses were up in the fourth quarter due to the implementation of our GSE settlement we announced in the third quarter.
We've not been named in any new lawsuits related to our private securitization since October of 2012 and we had no loan repurchase requests from our first-lien proprietary private securitizations.
Linked quarter our litigation-related provision expense increased $30 million primarily related to our formal mortgage business.
Turning to expenses on Slide 12.
You'll see since 2010 our consolidated run rate excluding GSE-related and litigation expenses has declined 30%.
We have improved efficiency in our core businesses with costs declining across most categories particularly in places such as compensation occupancy operations and advertising.
Excluding the fourth quarter's $30 million of litigation accrual we achieved our target of an annualized run rate in the fourth quarter of below $925 million.
We'll continue to work on lowering expenses with ongoing efficiency initiatives and overall cost control and I do anticipate that we will move below the $900 million annualized run rate in 2014.
Looking at asset quality trends on Slide 13.
We can see continued positive results.
Linked quarter our net charge-offs were roughly flat at $17 million and reserves were roughly flat as well.
Improvement in the commercial loan portfolio offset a slight increase in the consumer portfolio.
In the commercial portfolio we're seeing continued improvement in loss rates grade migration and overall credit metrics.
Nonperforming assets declined 10% linked quarter as well.
Wrapping up on Slide 14.
Our core business trends are generally encouraging with our 12-month trailing core ROA at approximately 93 basis points and our core ROTCE at 10.7%.
Solid returns in the regional banking and capital markets businesses demonstrate the strength of our core.
Our capital markets business continues to provide us with solid fee income while using capital efficiently.
And our regional bank's specialty lending areas and market growth opportunity should drive profitable loan growth in the future.
We will continue to work on expense efficiencies and our asset sensitivity will over time help our overall returns.
We've made progress in positively transforming our company and expect additional positive trends in 2014.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Bryan with some closing comments.
Thank you BJ.
As I said earlier I'm pleased with the successful execution of our priorities in 2013 and expect ongoing successful execution in 2014.
While we expect this year's overall operating environment to be largely similar to 2013 with modest economic recovery low interest rates and a highly competitive environment we are seeing stable economic trends in and around our footprint with high-growth areas in Middle Tennessee and our Mid-Atlantic region.
2014 marks the 150th anniversary of the founding of our regional bank First Tennessee.
Our nearly 150-year history -- over our nearly 150-year history First Tennessee bankers have built strong and deep relationships with our customers and our communities.
These relationships will help propel our success in 2014 and beyond.
Thank you to our First Horizon team for all that you do to build our business and momentum each day.
To sum up over 2014 we'll continue to successfully execute on our blue-chip priorities.
We'll further strengthen our balance sheet improve efficiency and productivity and work on winding down the nonstrategic business.
With our focus on improving economic profit we'll continue to make progress towards achieving our bonefish targets and building franchise value.
Operator we'll now take questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Alexopoulos with the JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So if I adjust out the $37 million tax benefit and then the $30 million of litigation expense run rate earnings looked in the $0.12 to $0.14 range depending upon what tax rate used which seems very low.
BJ are there other items weighing on 4Q results that we should be thinking about here when we move towards next year? Yes Steve.
I'd -- what I'd say is the provision -- loan loss provision was up modestly quarter-to-quarter $10 million to $15 million.
That portends no issues at all that we see in credit quality.
It's just the dynamics of what the reserve was set at.
Nothing more than that.
So that's probably a little bit of a driver.
We did see some higher year-end expenses but nothing that I'm particularly concerned about.
Some related to the MNB acquisition and related costs there some related to benefits particularly as health care costs and burden for our employees is changing in 2014 higher professional fees higher legal costs going into the end of the year.
So that was a little bit higher than what we would normally see.
But there isn't anything that I would particularly point at that's soft other than those items.
I still think that as Bryan and I both talked about we're pleased with what we're seeing in terms of discipline and growth in some of our specialty lending areas.
We expect that to continue but it's a difficult environment.
We saw good growth in our fee income particularly in the bank.
Even though the bank was steady our brokerage business our trust and investment management business was up double digits year-to-year.
So there's a lot of dynamics in there but generally we're pleased with our performance.
Research Division</strong> BJ maybe to follow up on that I know you said you thought you could get expenses below $900 million this year.
But given the pressures: revenue the NIM guidance you just gave and the core efficiency ratio 76% do you think you need to cut even deeper in 2014 on the expense side? I think we always have to look for efficiencies and we've said that multiple times.
I don't think that we want to create an expectation of a program with identified targets for dollar amounts of expense reduction.
But do I expect to go below the $900 million annualized run rate number before the end of next year? Yes I do.
We'll continue to move below that number and won't stop.
We don't see a bottoming-out of our expense base.
We have to continue to look for more efficiencies and as there continues to be pressure on revenue.
Steve this is Bryan.
The culture we try to operate under is to spend every dollar like we own 100% of the business.
We try to put an ownership mentality everywhere in the organization when you spend money.
And as I emphasized in my prepared comments we even threw a period of significant reductions in expenses.
We've continued to invest in technology and infrastructure.
And so we try to be extraordinarily thoughtful about the difference between good costs and bad costs.
And we don't want to cut costs to the extent of harming the business.
But as we've tried to demonstrate over the last few years we are going to be disciplined about it we are going to control costs.
And as BJ said the $900 million -- less than $900 million is not a lower bound.
To the extent we have efficiency opportunities that allow us to meet our long-term objectives -- allow us to meet and continue to achieve our long-term objectives we'll continue to work on the cost side of the business.
Our next question comes from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask a question on the litigation charge.
Should we expect -- in your Q you put out your possible but unreserved-for losses I think last quarter was 0 to $250 million.
Would this $30 million apply to that $250 million so we should expect that number to come down? Or was it -- the $30 million also related to FHA -- a HUD that's not in the $250 million? Or I guess what -- can you give us somewhat of a preview or -- of what the Q is going to say and the possible losses? It's BJ.
Yes generally speaking in the Q which you're I think referring to is the RPL or reasonably possible losses and that does try to give investors an idea of potential losses that could be above the litigation reserves.
So yes the way it works is when you do make additions to the litigation reserve the RPL for that particular matter or matters would then come out of the RPL.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As my follow-up on the -- at the investor day you talked about taking -- possibly taking some asset sensitivity off the table.
You guys -- sounds like you did take some asset sensitivity off the table maybe just a little bit.
Can you talk about what the movement in some fixed rate loans may have meant for your margin this quarter if anything? It sounds like maybe not much.
And would you expect to continue that trend into 2014 even though your margin guidance was unchanged? Hey Jefferson it's BJ again.
You probably wouldn't have seen much movement in a particular quarter.
But if you recall that chart that we showed that shows our sensitivity to moves in rates that far end that 200-basis point move would have been $70 million roughly the last time we showed you and now it's $60 million.
So we have dampened that and again it's trying to be more selective on competing for fixed-rate loans in a reasonable maturity band.
We were seeing demand in certain specialty lending areas that we thought we could compete better.
What we had been doing was swapping those.
But what we decided to do is not swap them take them on as fixed-rate we knew we could manage the duration along with the fixed-rate runoff that we were seeing in the nonstrategic portfolio.
And it's allowed our bankers on the commercial side to compete just a little bit better for good quality relationship-oriented loans.
We had been doing it on the consumer side as well particularly related to private client jumbo mortgage loans.
So we've continued to do that and be selective around there as well.
So again it doesn't change our long-term asset sensitivity in upside but it does give us a little bit more advantage in the current environment to compete.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions quick ones.
One during on loan growth.
If you can talk about it was a pretty steep decline in loans to mortgage companies and we're seeing obviously the refi trend play out.
But how -- what's your outlook on that because that's been quite a drag to C&amp;I.
So what's you're outlook on that in coming quarters? Are we getting close to stabilization or at least the decline slowing? And then secondly if I know last quarter Bryan you talked about likely dialing back on buybacks as you go into the stress test process and we saw no buybacks this quarter.
How do you think about that lever post stress test? Is it something you think you can return to? Or in this new world of stress tests is it going to be something that you may just have to wait to build a little more capital first? Yes.
On the loan growth side I feel really really good about what the bankers have been able to achieve in booking strong high-quality well-priced well-structured relationships as you noted.
We have seen a drift-down over the course of the year in the size of the mortgage warehouse lending business.
I think if I remember the numbers right we've gone from substantially all 80% or so of refi-related activity and warehouse lending I think today it's about 60% 55% 60% in purchase money funding.
So we're seeing a big shift.
And I think if it's not at stabilization you're very very close to it.
We've seen it drift up and down a little bit.
But it's sort of been in this $600 million to $700 million band for the last several months.
And I would expect that nothing unusual in the mortgage market is likely to stay there.
Overall in our lending businesses our pipelines continue to look good.
We had a little bit more strength than I really would have guessed even at the end of the year and our -- a high probability of closing pipelines.
So I'm reasonably optimistic that the momentum that the bankers had in growing some of these lines of business in 2013 will transition into 2014.
You also asked about buyback.
As you said in the third quarter following the charge we said we were going to dial back the repurchase activity in the next several quarters.
We were in the midst of the stress testing.
We're making progress on the stress test I think our submission under DFAST is due in early March.
We're continuing to work through that.
We do have about $37 million or so left under our existing authorization.
For those of you that looked at the details of that that authorization actually expires if not already in the near term.
Next week I would expect that we would make a recommendation to our board to consider approving up to $100 million of additional buybacks.
I don't think that that's anything that we would start executing on until we completed the stress test and begin to see the results of that.
But over the long term we think we will continue to generate substantial amounts of excess capital.
That stock buyback is an important part of returning that capital to our shareholders and we intend to use that lever prudently to get capital back in our shareholders hands that we can deploy effectively in the business.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> To kick it off could you give us maybe little -- or make a progress report on how things are going in Mid-Atlantic and just kind of how I know obviously you guys opened a new office in Charleston I believe last quarter.
And I'd just be kind of curious as to how the progress is going there and what kind of loan growth you're seeing out of that market? I'll start and then I'll ask Susan to pick up at a more detailed level.
I'm really encouraged by the progress that we're seeing in the mid-Atlantic region.
As you noted we've had a number of opportunities.
Charleston is a good example to bring on to the platform very capable teams of bankers and expand our presence where we think we can do business the way we've been doing it all across the state of Tennessee.
And in the mid-Atlantic region we're seeing good progress there.
Our bankers are making very good progress in building long-term relationships.
I'm pleased with what we're seeing in terms of expanding the relationships in the core part of the mid-Atlantic region the Winston-Salem and Greensboro and North Carolina marketplace where we've been doing business for -- in the neighborhood of 10 years.
To add on to that this is Susan and I would agree with what Bryan said.
We've hired excellent bankers in Mid-Atlantic over the last 10 years as we started Winston-Salem office 10 years ago.
Bankers that we've hired in all these markets have deep experience not only as bankers in the specific markets we were hiring them.
We continue to see growth out of Richmond Raleigh Winston-Salem Charlotte.
As you mentioned we officially opened the Charleston office last quarter hired several great bankers there.
They will be largely focused on private client and commercial.
But we were already doing business in Charleston both on the corporate side as well as commercial real estate.
So we've already got a head start there in terms of developing relationships.
And I'm very pleased in terms of the quality of credit and underwriting that I see out of those teams as well.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So I guess maybe on a dollars basis.
Like how are those markets contributing to the overall loan growth picture if you will? Well Charleston is a very new effort.
In terms of percentage growth the mid-Atlantic region is one of the higher areas of growth.
That portfolio in Mid-Atlantic today is plus or minus $1 billion.
So it's not -- it's roughly 10% of our portfolio.
But it's something we think that we can grow faster than the whole.
So it is very positive and it is growing.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then just on the provision or I should say the reserve build for the nonstrategic home equity portfolio this quarter.
Could you give us a sense of the driver there? I might have missed it in the prepared remarks I'm not sure if that's actually related to the kind of legacy guidance that you guys got on reserving for the home equity portfolio business just curious as to what the driver was there? I'll take that question this is Susan.
We -- in the nonstrategic portfolio as you know that's a runoff portfolio for us.
As those balances go down we will see some adverse selections in terms of those that remain that portfolio.
However in terms of I'm not saying any trends that alarm me we continue to see had a little bit of uptick in delinquency some of that was seasonality.
There were a few larger loans that contributed to that but no trends trends that we're worried about there.
So some conservatives have built into that additional reserve.
Our next question comes from Nicholas Karzon with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll just start with the completion of the servicing sale.
Can you give us an update on the timing and what we might see kind of the impact from a magnitude perspective and where that will appear on the expense side and the revenue side? It's BJ.
Yes.
So as I've talked about we completed a lot of the servicing transition in the fourth quarter which was mostly the GSE-related type loans that were in the servicing portfolio.
What we'll complete in the first quarter is more the private loans that were in the servicing portfolio.
So I don't have honestly off the top of my head what the estimated impact would be in terms of the difference between fourth quarter and first quarter but Aarti or I are happy to follow up with you after the call.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then on -- as a follow-up on the expense side.
I guess as we think about the run rate and I think you've mentioned there are about $20 million of expenses associated with that and that guidance you gave earlier was for a $900 million run rate.
So is that kind of down $5 million year-over-year or is it a further kind of expense reduction on top of that and maybe offset by some investment? No I think in terms of investment as Bryan said earlier we're always going to continue to make investment whether it's in people or incremental technology as consumer behavior is changing.
But now we always talk about a net reduction.
And so we ended the year at roughly annualized expenses excluding the litigation accrual about 920.
I think I said earlier I expect to be below the annualized run rate of 900 earlier than the end of the year which means that I think our trajectory will be pretty good going into first and second quarter.
And like we talked about before it's not going to stop there.
So we think we have more opportunity to improve efficiency and we'll continue to move it down below $900 million.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR.
This is actually Thomas Letourneau [ph] on behalf of Paul.
One quick question on the capital market side.
I think you had $822 000 of average daily revenue this quarter and that's been below the $900 000 target that you've talked about for a couple of quarters now.
Is 800 sort of the right level going forward or do you still think 900 is the right number to use there? This is Bryan Thomas.
We still think we've talked about sort of $1 million to $1.5 million for an average daily revenue last couple of quarters.
It's been around $900 000.
The way I think about it is no in short we're not thinking about the range being any different we still think that's the right range.
And if you think about late 2008 early 2009 and 2010 we were well above that range and we're talking about that range.
This just happens to be a little bit aberrational period on the other side with FID transitioning in QE et cetera and it's just created a very cautious fixed income market.
So I still think those levels are accurate.
As we said in the prepared comments we would expect for the next couple of quarters it could remain below that range given what we see in terms of outlook.
But I'm still pretty comfortable with the low end of that range in $1 million.
Our next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us just a little bit more color around if at all if you could around the mortgage litigation charge? I mean any type of background around the rationale behind taking that incremental charge here.
Is it based upon settlements elsewhere in the industry or are you now at the table with certain parties versus -- I know you mentioned earlier that there seemed like there was bigger fish to fry before they get to you guys.
So if you could just give us a little bit of color there? Hey John this is BJ.
Yes I think for competitive reasons as you might imagine I can't give a lot of color to you.
We did say earlier that it is for mortgage-related matters and I did say earlier it's for existing mortgage related matters.
So that implies obviously it's nothing new that we hadn't seen before.
So we continue to try to be smart and thoughtful.
We obviously look at what's going on in the industry but we care most about what our legal defenses are and what we think our exposures are to protect our shareholders.
So I'm not sure I can give you much more color in terms of the number or what the matters are but that's kind of how we think about it.
I'd add John that we -- when we talked about these issues in the past and as BJ said we can't be very specific about what the moving parts are.
We've talked about to the extent that losses are probable and estimable we'll record them.
And you can take some combination of all the things you've described and conclude that we had the basis that to one conclude that it's probable and then two that is estimable and record the reserves.
So in some sense I'd say if nothing else that the sign of us making progress.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you that's helpful.
And then on expenses.
Can you just talk a little bit more about your thoughts on the actual total expense level going into first quarter and possibly second quarter of 2014? And more specifically maybe if you can just give us a little color on how the legal and professional fees should trend.
Sure.
So I'll start with kind of what you ended with with legal and professional fees.
We think the legal fees are obviously going to continue to be elevated for us.
We saw some higher legal expenses if you look at our financial supplement from third quarter to fourth quarter which was some of the linked quarter increase on the expense line.
We expect that to continue.
We don't see legal expenses going down for our firm for the foreseeable future.
Professional fees is probably a little bit more timing than anything else.
Year-end billing we do have a stream of professional fees that we pay for whether it's legal whether it's other consulting type engagements.
But generally speaking I don't see that growing I see it staying flat to probably declining.
But to give you a little bit more color on what we're doing around expenses.
We are continuing to find more ways to be efficient from a horizontal point of view in the organization.
And by horizontal I mean end-to-end processes and things of that type.
So underlying our fourth quarter trend we closed 8 branches trying to be more efficient both through our Mountain National acquisition as well as just general efficiency in our branch network.
We'll continue to work on corporate real estate and trying to reduce excess capacity and square footage across our footprint to take down costs.
We continue to look for efficiencies in equipment in technology in many of our categories.
And if you look at our financial supplement you'll see that virtually all of our categories are declining.
So again we're not stopping.
There's a lot that can be done and again I think you'll continue to see a steady downward progress in our expenses in the first and second quarter.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just on capital markets I know you're comfortable with the lower end of the range that you mentioned.
But I guess we've seen sort of the downward trend in the average daily revenues.
I guess my question is just how much visibility do you have? Because obviously it's kind of been on the lower end but could it just as well be on the positive side? I mean it seems that to me at least that you'd have very little visibility going forward.
So I'm just wondering if your guidance for capital markets is more sort of just whatever it is currently expected to stay there versus that you know the underlying trends if that makes sense? Yes.
Let me take a stab at this -- this is Bryan and then BJ can pick up on it.
You never have 20-20 foresight on that.
So it is always a little bit murky.
But we do have a sense as to what the flows in the business look like.
And there's some days when you see that the fixed income markets moving up you'll start to see investors come in and you have very good average daily revenues and you'll see when it's trending the other way.
And so you take that as a data point.
You take what we hear from our customers and what we understand about their balance sheets and what's happening in terms of loan growth and what's happening in terms of where they are in investments in their securities portfolio.
And we take a bunch of data points like that and sort of try to weave that into our expectations.
But as I said when I started there is a bit of murkiness about it because it is one what rates are doing and two how people feel about the movement in rates that is largely going to dictate whether they're buying or selling at any one point in time.
Yes I think Bryan hit it.
Just to give you a little bit more of a kind of numerical color.
Before maybe mid-December our average daily revenues would have been more in the high 8s almost towards 9.
And the last 2 weeks of the month are historically and seasonally very slow bringing us down to 822.
As Bryan said we continually have dialogue with our capital market folks about where markets are and where they're going we see daily sheets on where our ADR is.
But again it's really hard to look forward and understand where rates are going to be or where buying sentiment is going to be.
So again that's why we feel comfortable saying we don't see the environment significantly moving up or down from here.
So we're comfortable with where we're at and what we talked about.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And do you guys happen to have the ADR average for the first couple of weeks of this month? Yes.
I think it's about where it was.
It's kind of very little changes in the low 800s as I recall the number.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Not to beat on the same issue but on capital markets getting away from just the numbers in thinking about the market movements.
We had the Fed tapered decision and we have the stalemate in Washington which obviously created a lot of uncertainty.
Those things should start to roll off.
So I was just wondering if you thought that could be a positive.
And then factor in maybe what we're seeing -- for with you all and others as core loan growth is picking up typically that's a substitute for buying securities.
So just was wondering what you thought about the big pieces what could be the catalyst for cap markets getting back to that $1 million a day? I think one of the major pieces that we've talked about with our folks out there that could be helpful in the near term would be if the rate curve in the more 3 to 5 year range were to steepen a little bit I think we've seen some movement on the longer end of that but if there was more where the customer demand or buying appetite was and we saw some positive movement from a fixed income perspective there you could see some additional buying.
That's probably the biggest piece that we've seen.
There's loan growth.
There's loan demand out there but I wouldn't say it's an outsized commodity market I'd say it's still very competitive.
So while we're seeing a little bit of that in pockets and that can obviously impact securities buying we're not seeing it as a major drag on the fixed income flows we're seeing on the desks.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And BJ just a very specific question.
I was trying to run down the branch closing and possibly even the higher professional fees within the bank.
Just looking at the restructure table and it looked like there's about $1 million worth of -- like expenses on the employee side but doesn't look like there was any occupancy was actually looked like it may be a positive.
So didn't know if you could give me a little feel for those unusual items this quarter.
Yes I think on top off my head Marty I think the 8 branch closures had a net impact of about $1 million or a little bit more than that in terms of the actual legal branches.
On the professional fees side I think it was probably in the $2 million to $2.5 million range net.
Our next question comes from Chris Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about commercial loan rates.
And I know we had a slight increase last quarter slight decrease this quarter.
I'm just curious on what trends you're seeing in pricing on the commercial side for this year.
Hi Chris it's Susan I'll take that.
We continue to be very disciplined obviously around pricing as much as we possibly can there and it's very competitive in the market and so we are working with our bankers to make sure we're getting the appropriate risk return.
We've seen a little bit of margin compression obviously.
But the other thing that we've done and we talked about this on investor day is the portfolio optimization.
And so with the positive grade migration that we've had and then bringing on really good quality new customers in terms of our risk reward we're very pleased with how that looks.
So I don't know if BJ wants to add anything to that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess as a quick follow-up BJ is there a way to kind of quantify the cost of the new markets in Charleston and in Raleigh Richmond et cetera? It's pretty immaterial.
I mean if you look at the number of bankers we're going to hire it's pretty immaterial.
Maybe a couple of million dollars.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's not a driver of either way to your point okay.
This is Bryan Chris.
The sort of the way to think about it is you start incurring personnel cost on the front end and a tiny bit of occupancy for office space.
We're not building a branch network.
I mean it's just sort of standard commercial office space.
And then over time you ramp up a loan book and portfolio of business which offsets it it's -- and I think about the cost of hiring a handful or so of people in the market and a little bit occupancy and then that's offset over time by growth in the portfolio.
Our next question comes from Kevin Reynolds with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But I wanted to sort of as we came back from the investor day we sit here today and look at the core trends inside the bank and look at it from 30 000 feet.
You've got #1 share or maybe it's #2 if somebody wants to slice it a little bit differently in the state of Tennessee.
The bank is called First Tennessee.
So you are the home team against which everyone attempts to steal you've got a huge target on your back here.
How do you as you look out long term how do you grow above -- at an above market pace if you've got the intensity of competition all focused on you and you don't really have -- you've cut most of your costs your fee income business is are what they are and kind of dependent on the market around you so it's going to be left up to the bank it seems to grow from here.
How do you grow balances? Not necessarily margin but balances and penetrate the customer better and put a growth profile out there longer term when you're so dependent on the one state economy here as good as it may be relative to others? Yes I'll start with that Kevin this is Bryan.
There are certain aspects of our business where it is more difficult to grow simply because of the size that we have.
And our bankers work very very hard because as we talked about it it's very competitive for our existing customer base.
It's a great customer base been a lot of awful long-term relationships in there and it does make it tough.
We work a lot on penetration and cross sell products things of that nature.
We work on bringing the wealth management products and other things like that to those relationship.
But in some sense it is a little bit harder when you're big to grow in an existing market.
But we don't view that as a bad thing we view that as a positive.
We think that how it allows us over time to be more efficient in those markets and to build out as I said those broader deeper relationships.
In the short run a lot of growth can continue to be driven by the specialty lines of businesses our healthcare practice where we're not particularly large today but are growing very nicely our ABL businesses the mortgage warehouse business continues to have leverage in that we've talked about balances coming down and mixed change but we think we've got opportunity to grow that and to pick up existing market share.
And then as we talked about a little earlier we think in Mid-Atlantic and in regions like that or the country where we have a very small toehold we have continued ability to pick up additional market share there.
So I wouldn't look at our position in Tennessee as anything other than being a very strong positive.
We're very proud of it we're very comfortable with that and we want to continue to build on it and we are growing in Tennessee.
But I think in the outside markets in the specialty businesses we can grow a little bit faster because of just the dynamics and where we're positioned there.
I think if I could add to that Kevin 70% of our loan balances are in Tennessee.
The 30% are out.
And Bryan just ticked through some of the largest growth opportunities we had in our specialty businesses in our Mid-Atlantic group which are obviously in that 30%.
So we feel pretty good about that.
In end markets where we have more mature markets and large share we've built significant relationships.
And as we've talked about previously utilization of commitments is at the lowest levels we've seen in quite some time.
And so at some point you're going to benefit from the relationships that our bankers have built when that utilization starts to come back.
And that's certainly going to grow balances at very minimal cost to us over time.
So we feel very well positioned to see growth when there's a little bit more optimism out there.
Kevin this is Bryan.
At the risk of piling on I'll make one more example.
Take Memphis and West Tennessee.
Over the last year we have essentially changed and built our business banking franchise.
We've got a very strong leader in that business to date and we see an awful lot of momentum in that business just with some changes we made in the way we are doing business and leadership there and we're seeing very good progress in that.
So that's a market where Memphis is a market where our market shares are extraordinarily strong but we see just by fine tuning the way we're doing business and how we're doing business and the leadership in the business we've got good growth opportunities.
Our next question comes from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on all the expense and revenue discussion.
Just following up on the last question.
How should we think about future investments in particular into Middle Tennessee which I think you made a pretty big deal of during the investor day how should that interplay with the expense cuts and your branch structure? Thanks.
Michael this is Bryan.
In Middle Tennessee the big investments that we will make and I think in the next year or so will continue to be in people.
It'll be in talented teams and individuals that can help us build relationships in that marketplace help us grow our presence.
Now from a branch infrastructure standpoint we have roughly 45 branches in the market.
We might move a branch here or there over the next couple of years but for the most part we have the branch infrastructure.
And so our efforts are on building out teams of bankers in commercial banking private client medical and healthcare to put more activity through the branch infrastructure the infrastructure we built there.
So I think the largest part of our investment will continue to be on the people side.
Our next question comes from Jennifer Demba with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the legal and professional fees topic for a minute.
Do you have a guesstimate of how much of your expenses on that front in 2013 will relate to mortgage put back? I'm just trying to get a sense as to what could be your normal run rate once you get through that headwind.
It's BJ.
I think related to mortgage put back I'll broaden that if that's okay to kind of just general legal cost and litigation which has been higher.
If you look in our supplement which should be on Slide 7 breaking down the noninterest expense you'll see the legal and professional fee line has been in the $12 million to $15 million range over the last 5 quarters.
I'd say probably 80% of that or so is legal related costs and litigation defense-related costs.
So that again is I think going to stay around for a while until we resolve some of our legacy issues.
So I'm not sure that that line is going to go down in particular but again like I said professional fees I think were elevated in the fourth quarter.
And we do expect those to moderate and possibly come down next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up on a different topic.
Just back to the non-Tennessee markets you said you're happy with the progress there.
Are you considering any other non-Tennessee markets for expansion at this point or are you happy with what you have? Jennifer this is Bryan.
Yes I don't want to be specific about what those markets may be but we are always in progress of trying to identify teams of folks that we can bring on to the platform that are aligned in the way they do business.
So yes we would be considering the other markets at any given point in time there could be several of them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I assume they would continue to be in the smaller -- on the middle size as opposed to the larger markets? I'd say yes as a general rule that's right.
And there are a few larger markets that if we had the right opportunity we might consider.
But generally speaking we're focused on the midsized markets that allow us to do business like we have here in the state of Tennessee.
And I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Bryan for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining the call this morning.
Please let us know if you have any further questions or need any additional information.
I hope that you all have a great weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Ms.
Aarti Bowman Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in the call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our Web site is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning everyone and thank you joining the call.
I'm pleased with what we have accomplished in the first quarter as we continue to take actions to build franchise value and achieve our long-term bonefish target.
We are investing in our core businesses while controlling costs and improving productivity and efficiency.
We are winding down our non-strategic portfolio and taking steps to put legacy issues behind us.
And we are taking an increasingly granular approach in our efforts to improve economic profitability.
Our core businesses are showing solid performance and the regional bank average core deposits were up 2% year-over-year especially lending portfolios continue to grow on average year-over-year basis asset base lending was up 12% commercial real estate grew 4% and Mid-Atlantic increased 4%.
I'm especially pleased with this growth as it shows our focus on improving economic profitability is producing a higher return new loan origination mix.
Although the economic recovery remains slow and borrowers are still somewhat cautious I'm encouraged by the first quarter's improving loan pipeline as well as a modest improvement in commercial line utilization.
FTN Financial our fixed income business continues to contribute significantly to our overall fee income.
Due to market conditions we're still seeing lower average daily revenues.
FTN Financial remains a high-return business even in the face of lower flows and activity.
We see this part of the cycle is a great opportunity to continue to further invest in our extensive fixed income distribution platform.
We are doing this through strategic hires of sales and trading resources and through ongoing focus on expanding our municipal product platform and including the development of our public finance capability.
Managing expenses is particularly important these days and we remain committed to improving productivity and efficiency.
Consolidated expenses were down 8% year-over-year.
We are working hard to streamline our workflow processes and shortened delivery times for our customers.
At the same time we are continuing to make investments that enhance future growth potential.
For example over the past several months we have opened banking offices in Charleston Jacksonville and Houston.
As I said earlier we are making progress in winding down the non-strategic segment.
Average loans declined 18% from last year and we settled with Freddie Mac in February.
Asset quality is showing stable trend year-over-year net charge-offs declined 38% and the net charge-offs ratio remained below our bonefish target.
Our capital ratios under Basel III remain strong with estimated Tier-1 common at 11.1%.
We submitted our initial stress test to our regulators in March and expect to hear feedback from them later in the second quarter.
To sum up we spend the first three months of the year continuing to work on optimizing economic profitability essentially building on the data and the initiatives we discussed with you last November at our Investor Day.
We are focused across the organization and making profitable relationship oriented loan.
We are making steady improvements.
We are on track with our strategic priorities and we are doing what we said we would do.
I will now turn the call over to BJ for more financial details about the quarter.
Then I will be back with some closing comments.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I will start on Slide 7 with our consolidated financial results.
You will see in the first quarter our net income available to common was $45 million or $0.19 per share.
If you look at Slide 8 first quarter earnings were inline with our expectations so we did have several significant items that affected those reported results.
First we had a pre-tax $20 million gain associated with unrecognized servicing fees from our agreement to sell our MSRs.
We also had a $6 million securities gain on an equity investment.
They were offset by $6 million expense related to efficiency initiatives essentially a lease abandonment charge as well as some severance related costs and at $6 million net pre-tax loss from certain on-balance sheet actions related to resolution and collapsing of some securitizations that we did.
Segment highlights for the different businesses start on Slide 9 in the first quarter our core businesses contributed $33 million in net income.
And I will go into the details of Regional Banking Capital Markets results in a couple of minutes.
But let me hit on strategic first.
You will see the net income in that segment is $12 million up $6 million linked quarter.
The increase was primarily driven by the $20 million servicing gain that I mentioned earlier.
Loan loss provision was $3 million credit largely reflecting a reserve adjustment from the sale of three TRUPS all of which were on interest deferral.
Expenses were $14 million in the segment for the first quarter down due to lower net litigation expense.
And as expected we had no mortgage repurchase provision expense in the quarter.
Starting with the Regional Bank trends on Slide 10 you will see that net income in the bank was $36 million.
Net interest income decreased 3% as expected from the first quarter due to lower loan balances predominantly in loans to mortgage companies and fewer days in the quarter.
Fee income declined 4% linked quarter.
Deposit transaction fees were down seasonally and was somewhat offset by a 7% increase in wealth fees and trust income growth of 2%.
Linked quarter expenses in the bank declined 4%.
Loan loss provision in the bank was $13 million in the first quarter compared to three and the four.
That increase was driven by some refinements in our credit card reserving process as well as some other macro economic factors.
Overall the consumer portfolio remained stable and we are pleased with all of our portfolios are performing and expect continued strong performance in the bank balance sheet.
Moving on to regional bank balance sheet trends on Slide 11 you will see linked quarter of the bank average core deposits were up 2%.
Average loans were down slightly 1% despite a 24% decrease in loans to mortgage companies.
We saw linked quarter growth in other parts of the portfolio that somewhat offset that decline.
They included asset based lending up 6% CRE up 3% and Middle Tennessee and private clients wealth both up 1%.
We recognized that loans to mortgage companies do add volatility to our portfolio balances.
But as we talked about in November and in other places we believe the strong economic process and high returns on this line of business more than compensate for the volatility.
And in addition we were pleased to see growth in business lines and markets that we have discussed previously as being ones with current and future economic profit growth potential.
Competition for loans remains significant across our markets putting pressure on our loan yields.
However we are encouraged by the recent growth that we have seen in places like CRE and ABL as well as an improving C&amp;I pipeline.
Although overall our borrowers remain generally cautious.
We are seeing some expansions from our larger commercial clients and some acquisition activity among our mid-sized customers.
And the consumer loan pipeline has rebounded substantially in the last month reflecting somewhat of a catch up after the soft winter season.
We will continue to focus on our specialty lending areas that have higher returns and better economic profitability as well as our growth markets in Middle Tennessee and Mid-Atlantic.
Turning to capital markets on Slide 12 that business had net income of $5 million in the first quarter.
Linked quarter our fixed income averaged daily revenues were roughly flat at $813 000 for the quarter.
Expenses decreased primarily due to lower variable compensation and were partially offset by a seasonal payroll taxes.
ADR levels continue to be below our normalized expectations.
The interest rate environment and the associated dynamics in the fixed income market associated with that continued to mute activity on the desks.
In a more normalized environment we still believe that fixed income ADR levels are in the $1 million to $1.5 million range however for the next several quarters we expect those average daily revenues to remain generally consistent with what we have seen in the last couple of quarters.
Turning to consolidated balance sheet margin trends on Slide 13 our average total assets remain stable was about $24 billion.
Linked quarter consolidated NIM declined 10 basis points to 2.88% the decrease was due to lower loan balances continued pressure on commercial loan yields and a higher amount of balances at the Fed as well as fewer days in the quarter.
You will recall on our 4Q call the margin was 298 and we discussed it being elevated by roughly 4 basis points from acquisition related loans and higher than expected cash basis income.
Sitting here today we still expect quarterly net interest margin in 2014 to be in the 2.85% to 2.95% range.
We have several assumptions related to that may include rates staying at current levels or slightly rising.
Loan yields continuing to decline due to competitive pressure.
Loans to mortgage companies built-in modestly throughout the year.
Deposit rates paid remaining lower new investment securities yields modestly accretive to current yield capital market inventory to remain stable and fed balances at normal levels.
Our balance sheet as you can see remains highly asset sensitive a 300 basis point raise to net interest income will increase roughly $11 million or add roughly 38 basis points to our core NIM.
We recently began adding fixed rate products in both loans and securities with 3 to 5 year maturities.
These actions have modestly affected our asset sensitivity and allow us to better compete for relationship lending opportunities in the current environment.
But for the long-term we have prepared ourselves very well to materially benefit from an increase in short rates.
Turning to expenses on Slide 14 you will see that since 1Q 2011 our run rate of annualized expenses declined 30% and you see that we exceeded our 2014 expenses earlier than anticipated.
We have improved the efficiency in our core businesses by reducing costs in areas such as occupancy operations foreclosed real estate while also rationalizing our branch network.
We will continue to work on reducing expense in the non-strategic segment.
We saw a 52% decrease in contract -- using contracted employments as we have significantly reduced sub-servicing expense since we sold the vast majority of our servicing portfolio.
We have extensive work going on you see on the page in many of our credit operational areas that will deliver lower cost and improved collections and better service.
And we continue to work on ways to reduce our square footage across the firm.
While we are obviously pleased with our expense discipline to-date more can and will be done on expense control in 2014.
Looking at asset quality trends on Slide 15 you see linked quarter net charge-offs decline 2% non-performing assets down 5%.
As we mentioned we saw three TRUPs in the first quarter that were all on interest deferral further improving our risk profile.
In our reserves loans that have 164 in the first quarter.
We are seeing ongoing positive grade migration in our commercial portfolios.
Our bankers remain disciplined on underwriting and we are actively monitoring our consumer portfolios.
We expect continued stability in asset quality trends and are pleased with the performance we are seeing in credit.
Wrapping up on Slide 16 core business trends are solid with our 12-month trailing core ROA at 85 basis points and core ROTCE at 9.6%.
Solid returns in Regional Banking Capital Markets demonstrates the strength of those core businesses.
Our Capital Markets business continue to provide us with good fee income while using capital efficiently.
In the Regional Banks specialty lending areas the market growth opportunities should drive profitable loan growth.
Our continued focus on economic profit will drive better returns every time.
We will continue to work on expense efficiencies.
Our asset sensitivity provides meaningful upside.
And with strong capital ratios and solid earnings our ability to profitably deploy capital over time should be meaningful.
So with that I will turn it back over to Bryan for some final comments.
Thanks BJ.
We are off to a good start in 2014.
And over the remainder of the year we will continue to successfully execute on our blue chip priorities.
We will continue to strengthen our balance sheet improve efficiency and wind down the non-strategic businesses.
We are focused on improving economic profitability.
We should make progress towards achieving our bonefish targets in building franchise value.
Thank you to our First Horizon team for all that you do to develop our business and the momentum we have in each day.
Now with that Ben we will open it up to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Ill start looking at the ADR range on Slide 12 of the deck which goes back 10 years it looks like really the only time over the past ten years you are in or above the range was during the financial crisis.
What makes you think that now that we are in the post-crisis period we are going to go back to a level that's so much higher than you were back in 2004 to 2007? Yes.
Steve this is Bryan.
I will start.
If you look at the chart and the scale is a little broad there.
But we were running in the high $700 000 $800 000 even in those years.
And youll remember if you go back 10 years there were a couple of soft years in there preceding the 2007 timeframe.
That said as we look at the business we look at our positioning in the business and we look at what do you think the trends will be over the long-term.
We are still optimistic as a way to describe it we still believe that we have the share in the business that we can drive revenues and the business that are in that $1 million and $1.5 million a day.
As BJ said in his prepared comments as we look at across the remainder of 2014 we think it remains below that range.
And its going to be a period where interest rates are going to have a tremendous amount of volatility if you look at the map or chart of the 10-year treasury for the last year you see a tremendous amount of volatility in it.
And you have some really good days and you have some really soft days.
And so all of that said there is no science to it it is  looking at our business and understanding it and trying to lay out what our long-term expectations are.
It's still a very profitable business at $800 000 a day.
It produces higher return as I said.
So that's a very long way of saying it its our expectation but given what we have see today it is going to be below that for a little while and it could be that way in 2015 sure that's possible too.
I think Steve I will just add to what Bryan said to if you think back to what happened during the financial crisis we saw a lot of dislocation in markets and a lot of competitors left.
So we think we picked up some incremental share there.
We are also preparing very well for an environment that is very different as the GSEs change their shape and form.
And so while we are very strong there today the business is doing a great job of adding capabilities like municipal.
And building that out such that we have an even more balanced platform.
And the third piece is that our corporate desk has done very well building itself up through and into the crisis such to the point now that its actually the one that's up year-over-year and so that's providing us with a very balanced client base that we can take advantage of through any market.
So as Bryan said its hard to just pinpoint a range but we do believe that we have made structural and strategic changes that allow us to be there and be well over the long-term.
Okay.
That's actually very helpful.
And maybe just a completely unrelated follow-up.
BJ can you give us some color on the improvements in the C&amp;I pipeline that you noted in your prepared comments and do you expect a pick in the C&amp;I in the second quarter given what you are seeing in the pipeline? Thanks.
Yes.
I will start certainly and then Susan has a few comments that she can make as well.
But yes we are very pleased with what we are seeing in our pipeline.
You can see pockets of strength in C&amp;I ABL CRE most particularly our bankers we talk to our bankers as you know about balancing economic profit and loan growth.
And so what we are doing is managing that over the long-term.
But what we are seeing is that our bankers calling efforts are building pipelines that we believe have a high probability of closing.
And what happens is C&amp;I pipelines is that you do see the funding but they don't happen for a couple of quarters.
But we do expect that second quarter should be stronger and we believe that we can maintain that momentum throughout the rest of the year.
Yes.
Steve couple of things I would add is actually in March last March this quarter in terms of new fundings in the commercial side was almost doubled what it was in January and February.
So we have some real momentum in March.
And as BJ said we got some of the diversified pipelines in terms of some for commercial throughout our markets and our growth markets in Middle Tennessee and Atlanta as well as in our specialty business its like CRE and asset based lending.
This is Bryan Steve.
I will tag on.
If you look at the pipeline and how its build and its sort of hard in the  how the seasonality effect things at times.
But if you look at the end of the year to the end of the first quarter and the pipeline as we enter March the pipeline is up significantly in the order of 35% 40%.
So there is probability of follow out in that but we think things are picking up.
And as I commented we are seeing increased line utilization on C&amp;I lending.
So it does appear to be some degree of strengthening.
And as we look at these pipelines I'm very very encouraged by the relationship nature and the structure and the pricing that we have in place.
So I think our bankers are doing a fantastic job developing business and doing it with a long-term profitability and customer relationship mentality which I think is the right way to be doing business.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Appreciate that.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Emlen? Hey guys.
Sorry here I'm.
sorry about that.
I apologize just hopped on here.
But thinking about the expense run rate and look at the compensation expense for the quarter seems like its down pretty meaningfully could you help us kind of cheese out the impact from payroll taxes this quarter? And then also how much of the decrease was a drop in salaries versus kind of incentive accruals whether on the bonus side or just kind of commission related stuff? Yes.
It's BJ.
I would say most of the salaries decline is related to variable comp and really mostly in fixed income.
We did have some impact from continue declines sort of continued efficiencies that we are finding you can see the FTE count is down from quarter-to-quarter.
So obviously there is some impact in there.
But I would say largely its been from lower variable comp.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then if we look at  just kind of what the expense run rate is for the quarter since its meaningfully below kind of what's your guidance in terms of $900 million annual run rate.
Is there any pick up in expenses that you would be expecting as we kind of head into the rest of the year? Not particularly.
I think our annualized run rate using the first quarter be around the 880 range.
I would like to see be there at least for maybe a little lower.
I don't see anything in particular on the horizon that would be make it to go up other than something it could be possible which should be higher fixed income revenues and higher ADR in that business.
But other than that based on all the work that we are doing finding efficiencies and some of the things that I see  I feel good about where our level is now and it should get even better.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Along those lines from the question in the comp expense real quick just  the similar run rate question can you help us just think about what is a good run rate going into the second and third quarter on those salaries and benefits line.
Is it closer to the mid 1.20s or is it closer to this one 1.19 level? Assuming that as we talked about fixed income stays roughly where it is.
I would say its in that 1.20 range closer to where we are at today.
Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then also back to the capital markets topic Bryan I know you mentioned that the risk potential for that this pressured ADR level to persist into 2015 if that looks like that's shaping up to be the case.
Is there any additional rationalization of that business that you think is needed in that instance? Well yes if  well let me back up.
That's a business where we Mike Kisber and the team out of the FTN Financials spend an awful a lot of time through any business cycle looking at and controlling the cost.
And so yes they will continue to focus on their cost structure and make sure that we are allocating calls to the right activities and controlling cost appropriately.
In terms of rationalization in a broader sense if you say is there anything that you are doing that you need to stop doing from a product set or a customer perspective.
No I think we have got a very good business mix out there.
I would say if anything there will be additional opportunities for us to as I said earlier look for and hire specialized traders sales folks capabilities across our platform.
Most particularly in our municipal finance businesses where we have made a tremendous amount of investment over the last couple of years and I would expect we would continue to invest in it.
So I would expect yes we will continue to look at our cost structure and control it.
But we will also continue to look for opportunity to invest in that business and continue to position it for the long-term just like we are doing in the banking business and elsewhere in the organization.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nishil Patel of KBW.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just want to talk a little about litigation you already settled with the FHLMC and wrapped up a lot of good GSE issues and of course I guess I just want to see is there any update on the litigation front specifically with regard to the FHA HUD enquiry.
And also how you are thoughts around litigation now impacting the way you are looking at using your capital accretive buy backs or just evaluating the common dividend? Good morning.
This is Bryan.
First there is nothing in terms of an update on the FHA DoJ I think somewhere in the appendices to the Slide deck already got sort of the current information and that's  there is  just not a whole lot happening there its just a long process.
There are other matters that continue to evolve from day-to-day but it's a bit of a slow grind.
And we continue to work and to make progress.
But nothing to report at this point.
With respect to capital as we said really going back into I guess it was October or so when we reported third quarter earnings.
We talked about the fact that we wanted to continue to work through and resolve these matters since then we have resolved Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and GSE repurchases that we discussed.
We continued to work on and evaluate where the other risks are as it relates to the mortgage and overhang.
And also during that period we completed our stress testing effort its not the first time we run this stress test.
But it's the first formal process with the [deep task] (ph) that we submitted to the OCC and the Federal Reserve.
As I mentioned in my comments earlier we should get some comments or feedbacks back on that later in the second quarter and we will continue to evaluate that.
All of that wrapped up we continue to evaluate our capital position.
We feel very good about the strength of our capital position.
We'd like to get a little bit more information on some of these matters and get some feedback on the stress test before we make any significant changes in the way we are thinking about capital and capital return in the short-term.
Longer term we think our business will continue to produce significant returns  excuse me significant return and generate significant excess capital through the cycle.
We will be in a position to repatriate return to our shareholders.
And we will do all of that in due courses as we think through all of these moving parts.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Barker of Compass Point.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Given the very competitive market for loan portfolios out there are you seeing any opportunity to significantly reduce non-strategic portfolio at or above fair value from where it is right now? Yes Kevin.
This is Bryan.
Good morning.
Well a good example we sell three of the trust preferred loans that BJ mentioned.
So we are looking selectively for opportunities to sell those assets at or above book value and if it makes sense wed sell them.
In any contract or transaction that made sense.
It doesn't look to us like the market for loan asset has changed so significantly that there is a single or three single transactions that could be completed in light rather slight clean in terms of those non-strategic wind down.
But let's not just say that we don't continue to look at it.
And we won't continue to evaluate it in the future.
But from our perspective we still believe that being very strategic in identifying transactions.
And capitalizing when we have opportunities to sell those assets at attractive prices its way to go.
And for those where we continue to work through the resolution and to capture the run-off the pay down at par value continues to be the smart way to approach it.
As I noted earlier those portfolios and the aggregate are down about 18% year-over-year.
There is no reason to expect that trend line would not continue throughout 2014 given the age and maturity of it.
So that's a long  very long way I suppose we are saying.
We don't take anything off the table.
We are not saying that we have to do anything.
We are very comfortable working through in the fashion that we have been working through and we will continue to evaluate opportunity as they present themselves.
Have you ever considered doing a marketing a large piece of the portfolio or are you continuing to do it piece by piece? Well we have Kevin over time continue to evaluate I would say there is nothing that we can considered in the last year or three that where we thought about whether it made sense to do a large transaction.
It was our view particularly with the largest pieces of it the home equity portfolio that the credit characteristics and the loss content in it was much better than market expectations.
We still believe that continues to be the case.
It is a  unfortunately so are very low yielding portfolio which reflects the high credit quality that was retained on the balance sheet when it was originated in 2005 2006 2007 and 2008.
And so we have always believe that for the biggest piece and the most marketable piece that the home equity portion the economics of retaining that were better than the economics of selling it.
And our loss curves and our history has  generally speaking to this point generally proven to be why we are seeing very good performance then and you will note in the appendices to the Slide deck that already put out this morning.
Credit quality remains strong FICO scores are still north of 725 and the 730 plus range.
Those are updated refreshed by FICOs.
Then we still continue to see very good performance characteristics in the portfolio.
Now concerning the home equity portfolio given the increase in payments or somewhat considered a payment shock in the next few years as these loans were amortized is there anything you are doing to prepare for that regarding maybe building reserves or modifying a significant amount of home equity portfolios are even selectively selling a portion of it? I will take that question Kevin.
As it relates to the home equity portfolio we do see  we update on our analyses on a regular basis and we do shock the portfolio looking at potential interest rate increases.
We also do analysis every quarter on  what's entering the repayment period from draw.
We actually are seeing  look a little last five quarters as ones are  leaving the drop period and entering repayment.
So we are actually seeing some increase on those 30-day delinquency and charge-off rate even after they  than we saw say few quarters ago.
Some of this tax expense we are using that will continue to manage the revs improve outcomes.
We are now reaching out to our home equity borrowers those in the non-strategic and regional bank portfolio.
Further in advance of them leaving the drop period and entering repayment.
And so letting them know up to 9 months in advance through different outreach methods online banking statements proactive calling.
Your payment will change please call us we want to work with you.
So we are doing a number of outreach activity to continue to help our customers and also improve  continue to improve the outcome.
Thank you for taking my question.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our Q&amp;A session for today.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Bryan Jordan for any final remarks.
Thank you Ben.
Thank you all for joining our call this morning.
And thank you for your interest in First Horizon.
Please let any of us know if you have any further questions today or tomorrow or early next week or need any additional information.
I hope you all have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
And you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Aarti Bowman Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Andrew.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in the call this morning are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements today reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled the GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning everyone and thank you joining our call.
Our second quarter results demonstrate that were making progress in building franchise value improving economic profitability and resolving legacy issue.
Our core business is showing solid performance and I'm encouraged by positive balance sheet trends.
Im particularly pleased with loan growth in the bank in the second quarter.
Year-over-year average asset price lending was up 14% Mid-Atlantic increased 12% and Middle Tennessee loan growth was up 8%.
Commercial real estate grew at 19% driven by opportunities with new and existing customers.
Were also starting to make loan commitments in our newest market such as Houston Charleston and Jacksonville.
Our specialty lending businesses and entrances in the new market were centered on improving economic profitability.
Our approach in the new market is to develop full customer relationships with discipline underwriting and profitable risk adjusted returns.
Weve developed a niche strategy by hiring experienced talented local likeminded lenders to our focused own areas such as C&amp;I commercial real-estate and private client wealth management.
We are not a building a traditional retail branch network in these markets.
We view this focused lender expansion approach as a prudent profitable way to deploy capital.
FTN Financial our capital markets business contributed significantly to our overall fee income and continued to be higher return business for us.
Due to market conditions we're still seeing lower average daily revenues in fixed income and anticipate this trend to continue over the next year or so.
We are continuing to invest in our FTN Financial businesses adding several experienced people to our public finance area in the second quarter.
As you know cutting costs and improving operating efficiency is a major focus for us as well as the overall industry.
Consolidated expenses announced 7% year-over-year second quarter excluding the settlement recovery.
We are streamlining processes using technology to become more efficient in right sizing occupancy and staffing levels.
At the same time we are significantly investing for the future.
Weve opened new offices hired additional talent and upgraded systems and digital platforms.
With our recently announced branch acquisition agreement we will acquire new customers and gain deposits in Tennessee more effectively leveraging our capabilities.
We will continue to finalize the lower cost but as I have said previously we want efficiency to be a way of doing business everyday firmly ingrained in our culture rather setting up one-time expense targets.
The wind down of the non-strategic segment is on track and as we continue to work to put legacy issues behind it.
Our non-strategic average loans declined 17% from last years second quarter and make up less than 19% of our loan portfolio.
GSE put backs are largely behind us and we settled with FHFA in April taking another major step toward resolving legacy mortgage profit.
Asset quality continues to show stable trends.
Year-over-year second quarter non-performing assets declined 21% and net charge-offs decreased 53%.
The reserve to loans ratio was 1.54% at the end of the second quarter 2014.
I am pleased with our results over the first half of the year.
Were rolling out economic profit data and tools to better help our employees improve profitability.
We believe these efforts will ultimately help us achieve our long term bonefish targets.
I will now turn the call over to BJ for more financial details about the quarter.
Then I will be back with some closing comments.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I will start on Slide 7 with our consolidated financial results.
You will see net income available to common was $77 million or $0.32 share.
And as youll see in a minute the Regional Bank had a particularly great quarter and in addition consolidated earnings were favorably impacted by two significant items which youll see on the next slide.
And if we look at that slide Slide 8 first we booked a $47 million pre-tax litigation settlement recovery.
This is related to security product lawsuit involving the Sentinel group that weve settled you might remember in 2011.
Approximately $38 million of the insurance settlement was recorded as a contra expense in the litigation expense line and we also received about $9 million to cover legal costs which shows up as a contra item in legal and professional fees.
The other significant item was a favorable $8 million pre-tax adjustment related to the mark primarily on non-performing loans in the held for sale portfolio.
Not included on this slide we also had various other items that had a negative impact of about $0.01.
Our effective tax rate in second quarter was 28% which reflects forecasted taxable income for the year and includes the benefit of permanent tax credits.
For the remainder of 2014 based on our current estimates we would expect the effective tax rate to be in that same 28% range.
Turning to segment highlights on Slide 9 second quarter earnings were strong with particularly good performance in the banks fee income and net interest income from strong loan growth.
Our core businesses contributed $70 million in net income available to common.
And Ill go into the details of Regional Banking Capital Markets results in a few minutes.
But let me briefly hit the non-strategic segment first.
Net income in that segment was $7 million compared to $12 million in the first quarter.
Recall that the first quarter included $20 million servicing gain and the second quarter included that $8 million valuation adjustment related to NPLs in the held for sale portfolio.
Loan loss provision in the second quarter was a $3 million credit reflecting lower loan balances in ongoing stable credit trends.
Expenses in the non-strategic segment were relatively flat at $16 million in the second quarter compared to $15 million in the first.
And again weve had zero mortgage repurchase provision expense in the quarter.
Starting with the Regional Bank trends on Slide 10 again the Regional Bank has delivered an especially strong quarter with net income of $47 million up 30% linked quarter and pre-tax pre-provision net revenue up 18%.
Net interest income increased 5% driven by higher loan balances.
Fee income was up 10% with growth in almost all key line items.
We saw 5% linked quarter increase in deposit transactions and brokerage fees.
Trust fees grew 8% while expenses held steady.
Loan loss provision in the bank was $8 million in the second quarter compared to $13 million in the first with the decrease reflecting continued stability in credit trends.
On slide 11 looking at more detail at the loan growth in the Regional Bank you can see the broad-based strength across various businesses.
Linked quarter our average loans were up 4% our calling efforts and execution of our plans in our specialty lending areas and focus markets are paying off with commercial loans up 5% linked quarter.
Loans to mortgage companies one of our most economically profitable businesses were up significantly linked quarter reflecting a seasonal rebound from first quarters lower levels.
Asset based lending was up 2% primarily driven by new customer growth.
CRE loans were up 11% linked quarter from growth in areas such as multi-family and office.
And growth areas in our markets included the key growth markets in Mid-Atlantic which was up 4% and Middle Tennessee where loans increased 9%.
We saw some consumer strength as well as our private client wealth management loans grew 2%.
We are successfully executing on our retail lending strategies with targeted lending to niche customers the hiring of specialized lenders and extended product offerings.
We are still facing a highly competitive environment but our bankers are staying disciplined on pricing and prudent underwriting to maintain profitability.
Net interest spread was up five basis points reflecting slightly higher loan yields from the increase in loan to the mortgage company and a lower deposit costs.
We will continue to focus on specialty lending areas and expansion markets that have strong opportunities higher returns and better economic profitability.
Turning to our capital markets business on slide 12 pre-tax income was $50 million in the second quarter which included the $47 million expense credit I mentioned earlier.
Linked quarter fixed income average daily revenues declined to $642 000.
ADR levels continue to be under pressure due to low rates low volatility and uncertainty around monetary policy.
The fixed income environment remains very muted given the low volatility low growth ranged down environment were experiencing.
We believe its likely that fixed income activity will continue to remain at lower levels for the next several quarters most likely approximating the ADR ranges weve seen over the past few quarters.
Keep in mind as shown on the upper right of Slide 12 our business model is unique and highly flexible in various market conditions.
As the revenue opportunity moves up or down the highly variable expenses in the business move in tandem.
This results in better less volatile P&amp;L performance relative to others in the industry who do not have the variable expense flexibility and breadth of relationships FTN does.
We are pleased with how the business is performing in this challenging environment.
Turning to Slide 13 we look at consolidated balance sheet and margin trends.
On a linked quarter basis averaged total loans were up 2% while average total assets remained stable at about $24 billion due to lower excess balances kept at the fed.
Linked quarter consolidated net interest margin was up 9 basis points to 297.
The increase was primarily due to those lower amount of cash balances at the fed.
Sitting here today we expect second half 2014 net interest margin to be in the 290 to 295 range.
Our assumptions include rates staying in current levels or modestly rising loan yields declining modestly loans to mortgage company staying relatively stable to second quarters levels new investments securities yields being flat to modestly accretive to current yields in the portfolio and excess fed balances reaming below the levels that we saw in the first half of the year.
Our balance sheet remains highly asset sensitive as you can see and at 200 basis point rate raise scenario net interest income would increase roughly 10% and they add almost 30 basis points to the net interest margin.
Turing to expenses on Slide 14 you can see since second quarter of 2011 our run rate of consolidated annualized expense excluding the Sentinel litigation and GSE repurchase provisions has declined 25%.
Linked quarter excluding this quarters litigation recovery consolidated expenses declined another 4% with decreases in categories such as occupancy operations; foreclosed real estate and FDIC expenses.
Weve improved efficiency in our core businesses as well.
In fact our regional bank efficiency ratio improved over 370 basis points for us first to second quarter to 62%.
As Bryan discussed earlier while were always looking for ways to cut cost and become more efficient were also continuing to heavily invest in our future.
For example were continuing to upgrade systems and enhance our technology invest in additional talent products and markets.
Most importantly were absorbing these costs yet still reducing overall expenses meaningfully.
Our ongoing focus on expense control along with our carefully targeted investment spending will enable us to ultimately achieve our bonefish efficiency goal.
As you can see in the bullet points we dont believe weve run out of opportunities to gain more efficiencies and we believe we continue to have multiple leverage to pull on the expense side to lower the numerator of our efficiency ratio.
Turning to Slide 15 asset quality trends remain very strong.
Linked quarter net charge-offs declined fully 8% to $9 million and our nonperforming assets declined 2%.
And were seeing ongoing positive grade migration in our commercial portfolios.
In addition we remain pleased with the discipline our bankers are demonstrating in a highly competitive environment and were comfortable with pricing instruction were putting on the books.
In the non-strategic portfolio loan balances are running off at a steady pace and credit trends have generally stabilized.
We also sold one TRUP loan that was on interest deferral and were actively monitoring our consumer portfolios for any performance issues related to home equity lines nearing the end of draw period and were proactively reaching out to those borrowers early in the process.
While second quarter likely reflect a bottoming out of net charge-off levels we do expect continued stability in asset quality trends.
Wrapping up on Slide 16 our core business trends are solid and were particularly pleased with the regional banking results this quarter.
FTN Financials flexible business model remains strong fee generating business that uses capital efficiently.
The banks specialty lending areas and expansion markets are driving profitable loan and relationship growth.
We will continue to work on expense efficiency and our asset sensitivity will over time help our overall returns.
Lastly our focus on economic profit continued to help guide our actions and focus areas to improve our return profile overtime.
These actions are all aligned with our focus on achieving our bonefish targets.
Now lets turn it back over to Bryan.
Thank you BJ.
Our core businesses have shown solid performance in the first half of the year.
We will continue achieve our key priorities further strengthening our balance sheet enhancing productivity and winding down the nonstrategic businesses.
With our focus on improving economic profit we should make additional progress towards reaching our bonefish targets and further build our franchise value.
Finally the hard work of our people and the celebration of 150th Anniversary across our footprint is generating positive customer momentum contributing to the opening of more than 17 000 new checking accounts reflecting 14% new growth year-to-date.
Thank you to our First Horizon employees for all that you do to build our business and serve our customers each day.
Andrew with that well now take questions.
(Operator Instructions) First question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Maybe Ill start just following up on BJs comments on ADR.
Are you thinking like 650 to 800 BJ over the next few quarters? Hey Steve.
Yes.
It could be there.
It could be a little bit lower.
It could be little bit higher but probably in this range.
Okay.
And I know even though we focus on average daily revenue for the quarter that there is quite a bit of variability actually each day.
When you guys analyze a 640 is this more a function of just not having as many 1 million plus days as you would typically need to bring up the average or is revenue youre seeing just down across the quarter? Steve this is Bryan.
Its a combination of both.
The summer in and of itself is very unpredictable.
There is a lot of people that take vacations and that affects the sort of the way the days flow.
Mondays and Fridays are slower than Tuesdays and Wednesdays.
We have very strong days and we have some days that are very soft.
And as BJ said we expected to be in this range.
July has been fairly slow to start.
Its been around that $600 000 range all just as I said is seasonally slow.
So things can change things can happen and interest rates we get more volatility whether its statements by the fed around monetary policy or whether its world events.
Those things are going to drive the upside in the business.
Right now though as we look at it we just think its going to be seasonally slow for the remainder of this quarter and probably end of the fourth quarter.
Id also add Steve that I do think over the last couple of quarters our daily range has been tighter that we havent seen as many million dollar days plus because of what Bryan talked about the volatility.
And the five year -- three and five year in particular being so range bound there just hasnt been a lot of opportunities for investment.
So weve seen that range tighten over the last couple of quarters.
Okay.
Maybe if I could just ask a separate question on the loan growth.
C&amp;I was really strong in the quarter.
The HH showed a good April then a bit of slowing in May and June.
Did you guys also see that step down and how are you thinking about momentum carrying into the third quarter here? Steven this is Susan.
Ill take that question.
We actually had a strong quarter each month in terms of loan growth and due to bank as well as some new commitments to existing customers.
So we really didnt see the slowdown in the second two months of the quarter.
Were seeing businesses talk more to our bankers about expansion opportunity but we are remaining obviously very disciplined as it relates to credit and pricing.
Steve this is Bryan.
Ill pick up on that.
Pipelines we went in the quarter with pretty strong pipelines and we exited the quarter with pretty strong pipelines.
I think our bankers are doing a really good job in their calling efforts and as Susan said they are having a lot of conversations that have a positive turn with our customers.
And I also think that our bankers are being extraordinarily well disciplined in terms of the loans that were booking.
They get within our risk appetite.
Were monitoring request for exceptions and things of that nature.
So were spending a lot of time making sure that were doing a good job executing in booking loan growth and that this is loan growth that adds value and economic profitability as well as gives us a balance sheet that will perform consistently in up and down environments.
Bryan sorry if I missed it but hasnt line utilization changed in the quarter? Very small less than a percent.
It was up just marginally but less than a percent on the C&amp;I side not a whole lot of movement on the consumer side either.
The next question comes from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to dig out on the mortgage warehouse business or loans to mortgage Company business a little bit because the growth is so much greater than you're seeing in originations nationally.
Can you just talk about that growth and what's driving it? Are you adding new companies that you are lending to? Are you doing more jumbo or other things are expanding the business? Can you just talk about what happened this quarter and what's going on there in the big picture? Yes.
Jefferson this is Susan.
Ill answer that question.
Related to the mortgage warehouse business we did see strong purchases.
It was -- about 63% of the volume was purchase activity.
The refinances continued to come down a little bit each quarter.
We have been very -- weve been in this business a long time and our clients even while some of them are reducing lines with potentially other lenders weve been able to maintain strong lines and strong relationships with our mortgage customers.
And is there a jumbo -- what is the jumbo component of these loans and mortgage companies? Is that a piece of what you are doing or is it just basically more business signaling great originations in the future?  Jefferson this is Bryan.
We dont -- most of the collateral that we lend against is conforming mortgages.
There is not a big component of jumbo.
And I think the other factor that you are seeing in the performance in the second quarter is seasonally stronger particularly as you get into the selling and the moving season following the school years.
Some of it is a bit of a seasonal pickup.
But were encouraged by the calling efforts there as well and as Susan said we see good opportunities for us in that business.
And as weve noted in the past it goes up and it will come down which it did in the intervening 12 months between this June and last June.
And so we accept a little bit more volatility but we like the business.
We think its a very strong and profitable power term business for us.
So were encouraged as we go into the third quarter and we will see what happens over the remainder of the year.
My follow up I want to ask about the -- one question on the bond business.
Were seeing good loan demand from the banks this quarter.
Is that a big thing thats affecting your bond business? Is that your bank customers are just finding higher yielding assets to invest in so to speak?  Certainly it has been impacted.
Theyd much rather loan it out than put in the securities book.
So that is contributing probably to the continued moderation in what we are seeing ADR.
But probably the broader and the larger issue is the lack of volatility in the markets.
The next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Just a little bit on the mortgage warehouse line again.
In the NIM guidance that you guys gave I think you made a comment that you expect loans from mortgage companies to stay at the same levels.
But I just -- just looking at the chart on page 21 obviously second quarter is a very seasonally strong quarter.
Are you saying -- do you think you can keep mortgage warehouse lines at 1.1 and is that reasonable given the seasonality in the business?  Its BJ.
I think what Id say is averages in this business can be misleading.
We started at a pretty low level at the beginning of the quarter and then we ended at probably the highest level at the end of the quarter.
So the average was the average.
Now we are back down as we would expect so far this month.
And so I think third quarter will be maybe modestly stronger the same or modestly stronger as what we saw in the second quarter and fourth quarter is seasonally a little bit lower.
But again you average all of that together.
So the second half of the year we think its roughly in the range of what we saw in the second quarter.
But youre speaking in terms of averages?  Im speaking in terms of averages right.
That helps.
And then just in terms of capital markets business can you talk about how much of the expense or what expenses are associated with the capital markets business? Was that a driver of the lower expenses this quarter? Because Im just trying to make sure that we match those up properly because it didnt seem the comp expense really materially reduced.
Ken I think expenses in capital markets were down proportionally with the revenue declines probably down about $4 million or $5 million ex the litigation revenue with revenues down a little bit more than that.
So again they kind of come down in tandem with what were seeing on the revenue side.
The next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
One of the I think really positive surprises I saw is on your non-strategic portfolios.
The 30 day delinquencies dropped from roughly -- from 160 to 140 but your charge offs went from a 100 basis points to almost to 20 bps in one quarter.
That is a huge move.
Can you talk a little bit about why these charge offs dropped so much?  Paul Ill take that question.
We are actually seeing some really positive moving asset quality metrics in the non-strategic portfolio including even customers that are in the draw period.
As weve discussed previously and BJ talked about today as well we are reaching out to customers a lot sooner in the process nine months ahead talking to them about the fact that their HELOC is near the end of draw.
And we believe that this proactive strategy is contributing to that improved performance as these borrowers have more notice about the potential impact on their family budget.
In addition home values stabilizing people working hard to stay in their homes keep their mortgages and home equities current.
And so we believe its the combination of the work that were doing as well as stabilization in home value.
And this might be a little bit more detail you might want to get back to me but when these guys are -- when these HELOCs are ending their draw what type -- they have to sell it amortizing the loan correctly.
So do you know the average increase in the payments that they are coming down the line? Or are you just modifying the loan itself? Actually on average if you go from just interest only to and this is on a 10 year amortization the payment shock is a little over 200%.
However we have analyzed our customers.
And many of our customers pay more than the minimum amount even during the draw side and if you account for our customers that are making more than the minimum payment the shock actually drops down about 150% rather than over the 200%.
So those are some metrics and we can get you more detail later if you like.
Yes and if you have it thats fine if you can call me back later.
But whats the average -- like on average I know averages are averages.
But 160% is it going from like $400 to $800 or $200 bucks to $400 bucks? Like whats the overall average for your customer base? Depending on the limits its at $200 to $400.
The next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Just on the deposit side I want to see if you can give us a little color on the decline in the savings deposits during the quarter?  Sorry John can you say that again please? Yes on the deposit side it looks like your savings deposits declined on an end of period basis pretty materially.
And just want to get some color behind that decline.
Yes I think thats mostly where we keep what we call it insured network deposits which are contractual deposits that we have that we use primarily for corporate funding needs.
So it wasnt core operating balances from customers.
It was more corporate balances.
Okay.
Wholesale funding as opposed to customer related activity.
Okay.
And then on the flip side on the loan side back to the C&amp;I growth I know you pointed to -- outside of mortgage warehouse I know you pointed to the ABL business being strong.
But what really -- what other color can you give us on why the strong lift in the pace of growth here and the non-warehouse book whether itd be within ABL or outside of it.
What really drove the uptick here this quarter because its a pretty good lift? Is it that a surge in calling efforts like you had referenced Bryan or is there another factor behind it when it comes to demand or something? John I can take that question.
It was a combination of things.
First of all we do have a strong calling effort across all our lines of business in all markets.
Obviously I do mention ABL was a strong contributor thats been a great business for us for a number of years.
Weve also as we highlighted in our markets where we have real upside opportunity Middle Tennessee Mid-Atlantic we saw strong growth there.
Part of that is again great work by our bankers people that were hiring that have great relationships within those communities with businesses.
Its also a reflective of the -- Middle Tennessee has been stronger in that market in terms of business new people coming in job growth.
The same can be said for the Raleigh area Richmond area where we have bankers on the ground and are really doing a good job.
Were seeing growth across a number of different industries.
So we continue to have a diversified portfolio.
Those things that weve seen and we believe for a while is over the last several years couple of years in particular weve put on a number of strong relationships and some of when you see in the CRE line of business where we knew these loans were going to fund up in the future.
And youre starting to see some of that activity fund up in addition to things that Susan mentioned.
And if I can ask one more thing on the capital markets business are you still comfortable with that normalized 1 million to 1.5 million ADR range? And then lastly at what ADR level is the business breakeven? Ill take it John.
Look the range at some point we think 1 million to 1.5 million might be a reasonable range long term.
But its pretty clear to us that we havent been in that range in the last five or six quarters.
And as BJ and I reiterated earlier we dont think well be in that range this year.
So maybe you expand that range out to 600 000 to 1.5 million or 550 000; I dont know what the right range is.
And in fact you noticed we didnt mentioned on the slide because our -- it just doesnt seem to be relevant to predict it at this point.
And we think as BJ said well be in that 600 000 - 800 000 range probably the remainder of this year.
The breakeven in the businesses is bit lower than where we are.
You can see in the slide I think its slide 11 or 12 that has the graphics about average daily revenue we put expenses next to it so you can sort of see.
We do start to see a little bit of compression with the revenue graphs.
The vast majority of our cost in the business are scalable and flow with revenues but we do have fixed cost in technology terminal things of that nature that do sooner or later push to a breakeven.
But we think we are going to -- we are above that level were going to stay above that level in all likelihood.
We will continue to look for strong profitability in the business.
The next question comes from Ebrahim Poonawalla with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
I have a quick follow-up question.
BJ I know you mentioned that the cap markets ADR was relatively tight changed [ph] through the quarter.
Do we have the monthly progression in terms of was June better than April or May or does it not really change? I think we didnt see much change.
I know others in the industry had talked about a stronger June.
We didnt particularly see that.
It was fairly consistent across all the months.
And second question just in terms of fee income mortgage banking outside of the valuation adjustment was essentially $500 000 this quarter.
Was there anything one-off this quarter or is it sort of resetting at a very very low run rate? Yes I think there wasnt anything outside of the ordinary other than the litigation cover.
Okay so we should see you expect it to stay around the 2Q run rate going forward or could it move higher? Are you asking of mortgage rent banking run?  Yes.
Yes.
Its at lower levels just everything runs off that also really becomes just breakeven business.
Got it and then last question if I may.
Is there any sense in terms of the timing around the HUD investigation? I know you guys gave an update on the slide deck but broadly if you could give any sense of are we getting in -- how much closer we are today than we were back in April? Yes this is Bryan.
There is really not anything to add to whats in the slide.
Its a process.
Its just going to take some time.
We continue to work for it in terms of building our fact bases and our knowledgebase around the business and the discussion.
And I think the same is true in terms of HUD and The Department of Justice and I cant really put a calendar around it and basically the slide there describes all -- sort of the current relevant information on it.
The next question comes from Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Bryan just to follow-up on the last one is there an ongoing dialogue with the DoJ on that? Is it a back and forth or is it just kind of -- I know that obviously theres been an initial investigation.
Just kind of curious if at least there is some progress -- seeming progress there? There is contact and I dont know -- I wouldnt describe it as dialogue.
There is interaction there is contact and from our perspective we have said -- they reviewed a subset of loans and want to re-underwrite it.
We gather facts around that interviewing people.
They are sort of building their fact base I assume at the same time.
So there is interaction there is communication.
Im not sure when it will gain significant traction.
My hope is sooner rather than later but its a two-party process and we all have to be in a position to -- we all have to be in a position to begin to move things forward.
I know youre loathed to provide too much guidance on the expenses but the annualized core expenses now at $850 million its meaningfully below kind of the $900 million annualized you talked about last quarter.
Just given the efficiency plans youve outlined is it fair to say the expense rate drifts down on a core basis? Or is there anything that would throw you off that trajectory? And I guess its fair to accept quick revenues from that conversation.
I think its fair to say that the $850 million range probably for this year.
I would expect us to be in that range clearly below the $900 million that we have laid out at the beginning of the year.
So I think thats a good range for this year.
But as I tried to talk about in my upfront remarks we dont think that were done.
We have multiple opportunities to continue to move the expense base lower over the next 18 to 24 months lets say.
And weve put a couple of bullet points on Slide 14 about the key areas that certainly help us get us there.
So were certainly not done.
As Bryan talked about were not big fans of putting out goals in more.
We think sometimes they are helpful.
But at this point Im not sure what they are.
But you can be assured that we think we have some still meaningful expenses to take out.
The next question comes from Michael Rose of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to get a sense on capital deployment from here and maybe how you think about potential M&amp;A.
You clearly got into some other markets have had some pretty success thus far but with your loan to deposit ratio closing in on 100% how attractive might acquisitions be on a go forward basis at least from a deposit point of view? Thanks.
This is Bryan.
In terms of capital deployment there is a slide towards the back and we continue to evaluate all areas of capital deployment.
From our perspective to the extent that we do M&amp;A were going to make sure that it makes sense and that it makes sense from an economic perspective as well as a footprint and a franchise perspective.
Over the last couple of years we thought weve had better opportunities to repurchase some common stock.
In I guess the quarter call of last year we talked about suspending that effort until we got more clarity around the mortgage related issues and over that time -- and we also referenced the DFAST stress testing process.
Remember that time we resolved Fannie Mae Freddie Mac FHFA.
Weve resolved in addition Sentinel matter.
We gone through the DFAST process and although we like everybody else in that process are not in a position and obligated not to disclose results that fits into our continuous framework of providing stress testing information to our regulators and were pleased with the outcome and we think weve made a stronger process and well continue to make that stronger management process.
With all that fit we think we still are going to generate some excess capital.
We think we have opportunities to deploy that in the business through loan growth in the vehicles which youll see in the second quarter.
And in all likelihood well begin to consider buying back some stock in the third quarter again and evaluate opportunities as they come up.
Weve had two attractive M&amp;A type opportunities in the last year or so with Mountain National acquisition in June 2013.
We got a pending branch acquisition with -- an agreement with Bank of America that should close later this year.
So we will look at all those opportunities and well evaluate whether we put it into the balance sheet whether we put it into some type transaction or whether we continue to modestly buyback our stock when we have the opportunities.
Okay thats helpful and maybe just in terms of what youre looking for in a deal is it in market is it out of market is it one of the metrics the financial metrics that you maybe look at or need to achieve to make it compelling for you? Thanks.
Well we look at it at a whole lot of different measures and ultimately it comes down to -- it has to meet our financial hurdles which we can compare to using the business -- using the capital in the business or using the capital in a stock buyback.
But we look at the fit into the franchise filling opportunities in end market in the state of Tennessee help us.
They obviously have a lot more in terms of efficiency gain type opportunity.
We also consider opportunities outside of Tennessee and Mid-Atlantic and areas such as that where we can fill in our existing major developing middle market type businesses there.
So we consider a lot of different things but as in the past we continue to be very disciplined in the way that we approach it.
We want to make sure that one it fits from a strategic standpoint and two that it makes sense from a financial standpoint.
And so were open minded but were going to be very very disciplined in the way we approach the business.
The next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
I had two questions two kind of thoughts that you maybe pushed past the actual surface numbers.
But first off is I think the benefit of the unusual gain this quarter about $50 million worth or little bit more actually helps -- if kind of think about allocating that to the potential losses or settlements that are still to come.
You kind of paid for some of those things in the sense of protecting your capital.
So Bryan I just thought -- was going to get your thoughts on that? Well yes I guess youre right at -- those things do add to the capital base and they do provide capital flexibility for us.
As you know from our discussions in the past there is what you can estimate and whats profitable and estimable what you record and what you dont.
Weve got very strong reserves still set up for the remaining portions of the GSE repurchases but yes clearly the settlement helped to strengthen our capital base as we moved through the second quarter.
And then BJ I wanted to ask you about the page 14.
When you are looking at the expense improvement over the last year while the expenses were down significantly $16 million on an annualized basis if you really look at the components of that about $52 million came from the revenues in FTN Financial coming down.
So their expenses are coming down which doesnt really create any net profit.
Actually it is little bit of drain? And then non-strategic continued run off there as well as the expenses down by about $5 million.
So out of the $60 million improvement $57 million is really related to revenues running down.
If you look at the banks efficiency ratio over the last year its actually tripled up about 0.5 percentage point.
So I just wanted to kind of get a feel for how fundamentally there is going to be efficiency gains in the process.
Sure.
And I think your math is right and Id love to see a higher expense base because of FTN revenues but the reality is thats not where were at right now.
And I think them taking their expenses down as the revenue opportunity is not there is pretty good performance.
And I imagine if you sell a full P&amp;L with a fixed income business across the industry Im not sure youd see the same trends as what you see at FTN.
But with that said I think what we try to lay out on that same page is how we expect to take another meaningful chunk of expenses out of the organization over the next 18 to 24 months.
If you think about non-strategic expense think just about the legal cost for instance that we continue to lay out.
Those are in the range of lets say $40 million a year.
If we ultimately get past the FHA investigation which we will at some point that number drops meaningfully and that drops right to the bottom line and that will certainly be helpful.
And weve got a lot of other things -- you can see a few of them on this page -- that will meaningfully reduce cost in the core business over time as well while not sacrificing anything related to our revenue generation opportunity in the bank.
So were pretty pleased with where were at right now and we think we can continue to take some meaningful cost out of the organization over the next year and a half to two years.
This is Bryan.
And to add to what BJ said the other thing to keep in mind in that comparison is over that period of time you are seeing although -- you might describe it as modest weve covered a lot of additional investment weve covered increases and costs of doing business compensation increases.
Weve covered investments in FTN Financial.
Weve opened in new offices in Jacksonville and Charleston and Houston.
Weve covered the increased cost associated with regulatory compliance and things of that nature.
So Im pretty proud of what the organization is doing to control cost and to offset sort of the inherent up drift that naturally occurs in your cost base overtime.
So I wouldnt overly minimize the amount of effort that goes in to see even a modest reduction in the banking and the overall operating cost outside of what BJ has talked about.
Just a larger picture strategic question perhaps Bryan for you.
Youve mentioned your priorities in terms of M&amp;A activity and how you look at it and all of that certainly makes sense.
I guess Im just curious given some of the weakness that youve seen in the capital markets business and some of the other transactions that weve seen other banks do within the capital market space does it -- I know youre thinking at this point to possibly try to broaden that business the revenue side of that business with the potentially a strategic acquisition that wouldnt necessarily have to be that big but could provide some benefits in the longer term for revenue growth.
Yes Matt absolutely and thats something that we have thought about and continue to consider.
I mentioned making investments in our municipal finance business in terms of hiring people.
Thats a prime example of an area where we had the right acquisition opportunity to help us build that business and expand that product set for our customer base.
We would certainly look at those opportunities absolutely.
And then just in terms of the offices or the lending that you are now doing in Florida in Charleston and in Houston how do you drive a relationship type of lending business similar to what you would do in your home markets in areas where youve said you are not really focused too much on branch density or anything like that and how do you end up from not being sort of the -- for lack of a better phrase dump money in those markets? I appreciate -- youre hiring local talent.
So Im sure that goes a long way to help.
But I guess maybe a question for Susan is how do you ensure asset quality in those portfolios once we start to see a turn in corporate credit quality? Ill take that question.
As you hit the nail on the head with the talent obviously thats one key thing that we do and that is in-depth interviewing in the markets where we decide that we want to go in.
We hire long tenured bankers with great reputations.
We go through a number of interviews.
Credit risk management Im involved in a number of the interviews.
People on my team are.
Line and credit and executives involved in the hiring process.
And we have hired some extremely talented bankers.
Were glad they joined First Tennessee.
In addition to that both during the interview process as well as once they are on-board we talk about our credit culture we talk about our credit risk appetite.
We also have a robust government structure that relates to credit portfolio limit by industry and within the tree line of business we have product limits within that.
And so we continue to operate within those limits even with the addition of our new markets.
As it relates to relationships theyre in less reliance today by commercial and corporate customers and consumers as well on a dense branch network.
And so first of all hiring bankers that have established relationships but also using technology with treasury management products remote deposit capabilities and those kinds of things we are able to bring on full service relationships in those markets.
So I believe that were doing a very good job there and we maintained our same credit discipline in those markets as we do in our core market.
And I might just add as well just as an example if you think about our Mid-Atlantic market where we have no branch presence it is a calling effort as Bryan and Susan described and we have about 30% deposit to loan ratio in that market which certainly isnt like a full service market but thats pretty strong I believe.
And so that kind of goes to the point that Susan said that commercial customers by and large more and more dont necessarily need as full of a branch network.
Our treasury management capabilities are excellent.
And were able to sell into those as well with the loan relationship over time and that bring us commercial deposits.
So weve carefully studied how were going to build full relationships not just loan only and were pleased with what were seeing so far.
The next question comes from Kevin Barker of Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Given the reduced origination volume in the industry and were hearing of increased competition and lower spreads in the mortgage warehouse lines; now your commercial loan yields only ticked up 1 basis points -- ticked down 1 basis point this quarter.
Could you give us some color around where youre seeing mortgage warehouse yields and the other commercial loan yields today? Yes so its BJ.
Id say the mortgage warehouse yields are in the 450 to 475 range.
And they stay fairly consistent in that range.
There hasnt been a lot of movement.
We havent materially tried to change our pricing structure to keep or gain business.
So thats been relatively steady.
I would say loan yields on the commercial side would be probably in the LIBOR 250 type range is by and large what were seeing in some businesses would be a little bit better some businesses would be a little bit tighter.
But thats generally what were seeing come on the books.
Kevin this is Bryan.
You alluded to competition.
There is not a lending area out there where there is an absence of competition.
There is still a tremendous amount of competition for every deal some areas much more than others depending on the product set.
But all deals are competitive.
And as a result there is not a whole lot of upward pressure on spreads and as you can imagine as a result most of the pressure is on contracting spreads.
And I am pleased with what our team is doing to sort of balance out that pressure in that competition and maintain spread.
You may have heard us talk in the past about the work we do to compare across the footprint.
We gather some data from outside parties and try to synthesize whats going on in our marketplace.
And I think in terms of maintaining strong customer service and maintaining positive spreads I think our bankers are really doing a fantastic job in an extraordinarily competitive environment.
And then one other thing I actually saw the tax rate jump up to almost 20% this quarter.
Was that primarily related to the litigation recoveries or the insurance recoveries? Yes.
And do you expect it come back down closer to 25% going forward? No I think it will stay in this 28% range which is what the effective tax rate is.
So the way we calculate that is every quarter we look at what our estimated pre-tax earnings are for the year as we factor in our permanent tax credits and we come up with a blended rate.
When you have a large positive like we had this quarter or a large negative it will impact obviously what your pre-tax earnings are and therefore how you spread the effected tax rate over the rest of the year.
So 28% is inclusive of the $47 million recovery and thats what we see and what you could use for the third and fourth quarter.
The next question comes from Geoffrey Elliott of Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
You mentioned that youd be contemplating resuming buybacks in the third quarter.
Whats changed that makes buybacks attractive now when they werent so attractive before? You said buyback of preferreds? No of common stock share repurchases.
Yes well over the last two two and half years weve bought back a substantial portion of our common when we felt that the pricing was attractive and we had excess capital to invest in it.
As I suggested earlier we made a call last year we wanted to see more clarity around resolution of several of the mortgage issues and we wanted to work our way through the first round of the stress testing process given the significant work that our team has done in resolving mortgage related issues the strength of capital base.
We just think that we have the opportunity to continue to invest small amounts of excess capital and stock repurchase over the second half of this year.
And due to time constraints the last question will come from Kevin Reynolds of Wunderlich Securities.
Please go ahead.
Obviously most of the questions have been answered at this point but I wanted to ask a question about two things; sort of rate expectations as we go forward what it means for your Company and then on the NIM side of things but then also longer term what you think.
I know youve said Bryan its difficult right now to predict ADRs in the fixed income business over the next several quarters.
But if we were to look out overtime and see a rising rate environment whether thats in 15 or 16 or beyond when I look at Slide 13 I see that that you predict roughly $63 million of increased NII in an up 200 basis points environment and it seems like that number has been inching lower quarter-after-quarter here and I was wondering whats happening to cause that to occur and would that possibly flatten out and maybe even go the other way over the next several quarters in terms of modeling and the second is in that rising rate environment down the line do we actually think that we can get back to that $1 million to $1.5 million normalized ADR or will higher rates if they tend to march higher put a constraint on trading activity in the bond business? Kevin its BJ.
Yes I think probably last year is a high on our up 200 might have been in the low $70 million range.
So down to $63 million is a modest move towards less asset sensitivity and its really on the liability side and its really related to how were managing our wholesale deposits not necessarily core deposits with customers.
We would have thought last year that we would have some modest pockets of opportunity for fixed-rate lending but there has been very very little demand on that side.
We had said that we might just try to pursue those to modestly bring down our asset sensitivity in the near term.
But those opportunities just have not been there with the extent that we thought.
So asset sensitivity remains very high we are comfortable with that and we think that will play well in the banking business over the long term.
On the FTN side I dont think Ive ever heard a fixed income salesman or trader hope for higher rates but as Ive talked to some of our folks they want something.
This low rate environment where it is with the three and five year in particular been so range bound it offers very little opportunity for customers or obviously for our salesmen to make meaningful trades on behalf of our clients.
So to some extent I think rising rates would cause more volatility which could cause a little bit more trading activity which would be helpful.
Now in general rising rate environment for fixed income is not strong but I think there could be pockets of volatility which would therefore help our ADR as rates did start to rise.
So we certainly put all of that in our asset sensitivity models as we look at it.
FTN is certainly included and net net we still believe the firm is very positively positioned for rising rates.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Bryan Jordan CEO for any closing remarks.
Thank you Andrew.
We are pleased with our progress this quarter and look forward to maintaining the momentum in second half of 2014.
Thank you all for your interest in our Company and joining us on the call this morning.
Please let any of us know if you have any additional questions or need additional information.
You all have a great Friday and a great weekend.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Aarti Bowman.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Please note that the earnings release financial supplement and slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
I'm very pleased with what we accomplished in 2014 and I am optimistic about our prospects for further progress in 2015.
Last year we profitably grew our balance sheet by increasing loans in the bank and ended the year with the strong pipeline.
Weve reduced expenses and improved efficiency while continuing to invest in our core businesses.
We made significant headway towards putting legacy issues behind us by reaching the settlement with Freddie Mac by resolving the FHFA litigation reducing nonstrategic loans and selling mortgage servicing.
We continued to return capital to shareholders.
We repurchased 3 million common shares in 2014.
Since 2011 weve bought back 31 million shares reflecting an 11% share count reduction.
We acquired bank branches in Tennessee adding $440 million of deposits and agreed to acquire TrustAtlantic Bank in North Carolina.
We also just announced that we increased our annual dividend rate by 20% from $0.20 per share to $0.24 per share.
I feel good about our positioning as we kick off 2015.
We are seeing moderate but steady growth in our markets.
And believe that we are set to take additional profitable market share while maintaining loan quality.
Year-over-year the Regional Bank grew average loans 10% despite strong competition.
Our specialty lending areas drove the growth with Private Client/Wealth loans up 10% asset-based lending increased 15% and commercial real estate lending up 31%.
Our efforts in our growth markets are paying off as well with Mid-Atlantic loans up 25% and Middle Tennessee up 10%.
At FTN Financial average daily fixed income revenues were steady from third to fourth quarter 2014 and are likely to stay in this general range until market conditions improve.
In 2015 we remain committed to cost containments.
As I have said previously we want expense control to be embedded in our culture and not just targeted amounts for efficiency goals.
There are still opportunities to reduce our expense base which BJ will have additional comments on in a few minutes.
As to credit quality non-performing assets and charge-offs were down a respective 33% and 28% year-over-year and trends continue to be favorable.
Economic profit was a major thing for us in 2014 and will remain so in 2015.
We have educated our bankers on the importance of making profitable relationship oriented loans and have rolled out tools and databases to help employees measure RAROC and economic profit.
We believe our emphasis on economic profit will benefit our returns going forward and help us achieve our long-term bonefish targets.
I will now turn the call over to BJ for more financial details about the quarter and then Ill be back for some closing comments.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
I will start on Slide 8.
For the fourth quarter net income available to common was $46 million or $0.20 a share compared with the third quarters $45 million or $0.19 a share.
I know this is going to surprise you but there were no notable items or one-times in the quarter so we certainly hope this helps lighten your analysis load on us a bit this quarter.
Net income available to common for the full year 2014 was $213 million compared to $24 million in 2013 and our full year EPS was $0.90 in 2014 versus $0.10 in the 2013.
Slide 9 shows our segment highlights but lets skip right to Slide 10 and discuss the core business results.
First the Regional Banks net income was $50 million in the fourth quarter relatively flat to third quarters level but up 16% from a year ago.
Pre-tax pre-provision net revenue grew 3% linked quarter and was up 20% year-over-year.
Linked quarter net interest income in the bank was up 2% and up 8% year-over-year driven by continued strong loan growth.
Non-interest income was flat linked quarter as we saw increases in deposit transaction fees trust services and bank card income that were somewhat offset by decreases in brokerage and other service fees.
Year-over-year fee income growth was around 3% with strength and brokerage trust and bank card in particular.
While expenses in the bank efficiency ratio were relatively stable linked quarter the efficiency ratio and the bank has improved more than 400 basis points versus fourth quarter last year to around 62%.
Loan loss provision was just under $6 million in the fourth quarter compared to a little over $2 million in the third.
The increase was driven by loan growth in the commercial portfolios and a modest rebalancing the reserves primarily to our commercial real estate portfolio.
Turning to Slide 11 well look at the Regional Bank balance sheet trends linked quarter average loans in the banks were up 2% and up 10% year-over-year.
We continue to see good growth in our specialty lending areas linked quarter we had a 5% increase in average loans in asset-based lending reflecting both an improved utilization rate on existing lines and new customer growth.
Commercial real estate grew 5% driven by increases in the REIT sector and growth in property types such as assisted living facilities retail and industrial.
We also continue to see CRE borrowers funding up committed lines.
In fourth quarter 2014 loans to mortgage companies were relatively flat to 3Q 2014 levels with average balances of around $900 million.
From a market perspective linked quarter we saw strength in our Mid-Atlantic market which was up 3% East Tennessee increased loans by 2% and Middle Tennessee posted 1% growth.
Pricing and underwriting trends due remain competitive across our markets in lines of business.
Yet as Bryan discussed earlier our bankers are focused on improving economic profitability and risk adjusted returns on capital to strengthen our balance sheet.
We should continue to see strong growth in our specialty lending areas in expansion markets such as Mid-Atlantic and Houston and although the lending environment remains highly competitive generally we believe customers remain cautiously optimistic and our pipelines remain strong.
Turning to FTN in the fixed income business on Slide 12 we saw net income of $4 million in the fourth quarter up from $3 million in the third as anticipated fourth quarter was in line with third quarter and were seasonally down during the holiday season.
Fixed income average daily revenue was at $630 000 in the fourth compared with $644 000 in the third.
Expenses declined 4% linked quarter due to lower variable compensation.
For the first half of the year in 2015 we expect to see continued lower fixed income activity because of the challenges market condition from low rates low volatility and a flatter yield curve.
Turning to Slide 13 let's look at the balance sheet of margin trends.
Average total assets were slightly up from last quarter at $25 billion linked quarter average loans were up 1% and core deposits grew 8%.
As discussed a few minutes ago our net interest income was flat to prior quarter as we saw good loan growth of loan fee collection along with lower deposit costs.
However our net interest margin was down you will recall that on the third quarter call we discussed that the net interest margin would come down in the fourth primarily due to anticipated excess cash and thats exactly what we experienced.
The consolidated net interest margin declined 11 basis points to 286 with virtually all of the margin decline driven by our excess liquidity position.
First a good bit of it was the high class problem of strong customer deposit gathering.
Fourth quarters deposit growth included inflow from commercial customers the addition of $440 million of core deposits from our recent branch acquisition and higher insured network deposits.
Also you will recall that last November we issued $400 million of senior debt at the bank to replace a maturity that we paid-off just last week so we carried those excess proceeds for the last 45-days or so.
All of this activity even with strong loan growth caused period end interest bearing cash levels to go to about $1.6 billion for the quarter up from $275 million in the third.
Again commercial loans and low deposit costs were positive and did mitigate some of the NIM increase - excuse me decrease.
Looking ahead to the first quarter we expect consolidated net interest margin to decline again for largely the same reasons until we can smartly put these excess funds to work.
In addition to normal fourth quarter to first quarter seasonality in the NIM that we usually experience.
So as we sit here today we expect the first quarter NIM to be at abnormally low levels from that excess cash in addition to lower day count impacts.
However while the NIM maybe lower we expect to see steady to maybe modestly lower NII.
Again we do not believe that first quarter 2015 NIM will be representative of the remainder of the year.
We expect it to increase after the first quarter as the excess cash is put to work.
You can see our balance sheet remains highly asset sensitive and we're prepared for increases in short rates and will stand to meaningfully benefit from that type of movement.
While a flattening of the long end is not helpful to either our NII or the fixed income business.
The benefit of increases in the short end of the curve more than offset pressure from the flattening on the long end.
Turning to expenses on Slide 14 you will see the successful execution of our efficiency efforts.
Since 4Q 2011 our annualized expenses excluding mortgage repurchase and legal costs have declined 21%.
Weve reduced cost in numerous areas such as compensation credit and nonstrategic expenses.
As Bryan talked about cost control will continue to be a priority for us in 2015.
As you know we still plan to eliminate another $20 million to $50 million of expenses over the next couple years.
We have ongoing efficiency initiatives and also plan on reinvesting in the business in revenue producing growth areas such as Middle Tennessee the Carolinas Houston and our Wealth Management business.
As a result we expected to pace some net cost reductions will likely flatten compared to previous years but well still continue to look for additional efficiency opportunities.
Turning to asset quality on Slide 15 linked quarter trends were generally stable to improved.
And in the fourth quarter net charge-offs remained low and an annualized 30 basis point of average loans or $12 million compared to $11 million in the third quarter.
Linked quarter our nonperforming assets decreased 6% to $242 million and the loan loss reserve decreased 3%.
Our allowance to loans stands at 143 basis points.
Overall we continue to be very pleased with our credit quality and frontline discipline and expect that to continue.
Wrapping on Slide 16 and 17.
For the fourth quarter our core ROTCE was 10.4% compared to consolidated ROTCE of 8.7%.
We are making progress towards our bonefish targets as the strength of our core businesses improve and the nonstrategic segment continues to run-off.
As you know a rate rise would be positively impactful to our profitability.
But in the meantime well focus on controlling what we can control to enhance our returns.
Thats continued efficiency efforts the ongoing wind-down of the nonstrategic portfolio growth opportunities in new markets and products focused on economic profit enhancement increased fixed income activity as well as capital deployment.
So back to you Bryan.
Thank you BJ.
I am pleased with the successful execution of our priorities in 2014 and I expect continued momentum in 2015.
Overall we are broadly optimistic we anticipate this years operating environment to be somewhat better than last years with the economy steadily improving.
We are fully prepared to capitalize on opportunities provided by an improving economy.
Over the next year we will continue to strengthen our balance sheet manage expenses wind down the nonstrategic business and improve our economic profitability.
We should make ongoing progress towards achieving our bonefish targets and building franchise value.
And finally thank you to our First Horizon people for all that you do to help us serve our customers so well.
Amy with that we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JP Morgan.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
I want to start on expenses.
Thus far you guys have been one of the few banks that actually cuts dollars of expense not just trims the growth rate of expenses.
With that said less than $140 million now of annualized expense in the fourth quarter.
Is there more room to drive the level of expense down again in 2015? Hey Steve its BJ.
Yes we believe so like I said weve got $20 million to $50 million of efficiencies were working on and like weve done in prior years that wont be the end of what we do weve try to build a culture of expense discipline and continuous improvement here so were going to constantly look for things that the steep decline in what weve seen in terms of net expense reductions of 21% over the last three years I mean there is a law of diminishing returns after a while.
Well continue to look for net reductions and we believe we can get that but weve also got a lot of good things going on that will produce revenue like what I talked about additional investment in Middle Tennessee Mid-Atlantic and the Carolinas in particular our wealth management business things like that.
So we had a lot dropped to the bottom line before we still think well have more drop to the bottom line but some more of that will be offset by growth initiatives we have as well.
Hey Steve this is Bryan.
Ill piggyback on BJs comment.
In my earlier comments I talked about the cultural nature of expenses and Im very very pleased with what organizationally I see in terms of the way our folks are approaching expenses.
And I think the expense efficiencies it will gain over the next couple of years are likely to be through their hard work in analyzing the financial tools that weve laid out in terms of profitability looking at in then and processes.
And I actually believe that to be a much better way for us to continue to approach expenses setting targets and setting those targets in such a way that we go into silos and ask - because Susan is in the room say we want to reduce a little bit more in credit or we want to got to finance and say BJ reduce a little bit more finance is not the right way to approach if we need to do it in a way that helps us from end-to-end in our processes and allows us to continue to provide high level high quality and differentiated service to our customers and do it in a way that make sense for building the business long-term.
And to reiterate what BJ said yes we see additional opportunities to reduce expenses over the next couple of years it gets more difficult but we do see those opportunities.
And like we have in the past we will continue to invest in the business and build the franchise for the long-term.
Okay that's helpful Bryan.
Appreciate that commentary.
Maybe to shift gears I wanted to ask a question on the nonstrategic segment which generally continues to help earnings rate.
It was $0.02 this quarter about the same as last quarter? Can you help us think about the wind-down of the remaining businesses? Should it just be very gradual? Are you looking at options to more quickly exit some of the remaining businesses or portfolios? Thanks.
Yes Steve its BJ.
You obviously know that over the last couple of quarters.
Well second and third quarter we did do some loan sales out of the portfolio which helped us we had some significant gains there.
The rest of the portfolio is largely consumer HELOCs and installment loans there are couple of hundred million dollars of trust preferred whole loans that are there and we will probably be there for while but its mostly the consumer real estate.
We would certainly be open to looking at ways to accelerate that either through various ways that we could do internally or look for things externally like weve done before.
But if you look in the back of the slide book you can see over the last two quarters that the CPR on the consumer real estate portfolio has ticked up pretty substantially over I think it was 22% last quarter 25% this quarter that was up from maybe mid-teens several quarters ago.
So with the long end coming down I think people have seen more opportunity to refi away that certainly help the reduction in our portfolio we expect to probably see more of that and as weve talked about before we're not particularly active in trying to keep those balance sheets on our balance sheet.
So we're happy to see them go but with that said in a rising rate environment we're looking for plenty of ways to match fund or core fund that portfolio as well so that we might take a little bit more advantage of the asset sensitivity inherent to that as much as we can.
So there is lots of things that we're looking at to do but we feel like its well managed its got great credit quality it has made us a modest amount of money and we feel comfortable with it.
Okay.
Just one technical question.
BJ the tax rate was there any one-time items in there in the fourth quarter or is 19.5% a reasonable rate going forward? Thanks.
No there were some permanent tax credits and some reserve reversals that came through in the quarter.
So that was a little bit lower than what we would normally expect.
Going into 2015 I would suggest that you should probably think about a 30% effective tax rate something like that but this quarter was a little bit light with those permanent credits.
Okay thanks for all the color.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon with Jefferies.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
BJ just could you walk us through the plan for deploying that liquidity build-up in the quarter? Obviously debt redemption will consume a portion of that.
But for the remainder is the plan to wait for loan growth or do you have a plan to do something different in the interim or the medium term? Yes we're still working through what would be the smartest way to do it.
There are plenty of ways certainly loan growth would be the most advantageous for us and so we're looking at what our forecast are for loan growth and we think that will certainly be part of it.
We're looking at our capital and debt instruments that we have to see if there is any opportunity for us to retire those attractively that could be a possibility.
Buying securities is extremely challenging right now as we can see in our fixed income business and we certainly see in our securities portfolio but we're looking at that as well.
So there are plenty of things that we're looking at but what I alluded to in my comments was well smartly do it; we're essentially parking that cash today at the Fed and making 24 25 basis points on it.
So it is earning a little bit but its not earning nearly enough.
So we will be smart about it but hopefully we can get through most of it in the first quarter and maybe leak a little bit into the second.
Got it.
If I look at just kind of the average interest-bearing cash that was actually up about call it $800 million versus the $1.6 billion end of period.
If we think about the first-quarter margin does that mean you may have a little bit more leak there in your abnormally low NIM guide for the first quarter? Yes yes thats right we dont want you to be surprised with a NIM that maybe has a 2.7 something on it because that could certainly happen in the first quarter but again as I talked about the margin might look low because of that excess cash but our NII should be relatively stable to maybe modestly down.
So I would keep more of an eye on the NII until we work through the excess cash.
Gotcha.
Just one quick one on Middle Tennessee loans there up 10% on a year-over-year basis.
You have talked about addressing that market differently going forward.
Is it still possible to see an acceleration of growth there or is that 10% what you were hoping for or what you are hoping to get out of that market? Hi Emlen this is Bryan.
Yes I think there is still additional acceleration that will see there we have put a lot of energy into that market over the last couple of years we have made I think very good progress this year.
We have actually gone through a leadership transition with Doyle Rippee who is retiring and Carol Yochem who has taking over the market and is providing really good leadership.
We have attracted some very very talented individuals that we think will make a significant difference for us in that marketplace.
So I am very optimistic that we will see an acceleration in 2015 2016 and beyond I think weve got great opportunities in Middle Tennessee.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ebrahim Poonawala at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I guess first question just in terms of the investment side of the expense equation [mainly] to reinvest in the franchise.
I was wondering Bryan if there is a specific plan in terms of the X number of branches that you want to open in the Carolinas or Middle Tennessee or hiring of lenders over the next six to 12 months if there is any color that you can add in terms of where those investment dollars are going to go on the banking and maybe even the capital market side? Yes we dont have let me start with the branches we dont have any broad based plans to have a net increase in the number of branches.
In all likelihood we would continue to see a net consolidation of branches.
What were referring to the types of investments that weve made over the last several years where weve invested in technology and platform whether it be our sales and service platforms whether it be our relationship management platforms or even the technology required to produce economic profitability at the customer or the relationship levels.
So were not expecting anything off pattern in terms of investment in the business were really just sort of nodding to or acknowledging the fact that at some point that the ability to continue to make the significant kinds of productions that weve made over the last couple of years gets harder and that incremental progress is likely to still be achieved but were going to continue to focus on investing in the business for the long-term and making sure that as I said earlier that we have a franchise that is delivering that differentiate customer service to our customer base.
Understood and then just a separate question on the mortgage company loans.
Other banks have talked about benefit from low rates sort of helping activity there more recently on the refi side.
Also the purchase side is getting better.
Just wondering if you had any thoughts in terms of how those balances should look vis-a-vis the first half of last year and it seemed like the balance load obviously seasonally closed up pretty strong at the end of the year.
So any color on that BJ would be helpful? Sure yes the average balances were relatively flat from third quarter to fourth quarter but there was - there were pretty good peaks in there for going into the end of the year the balances were well over $1 billion probably now today they are in the 800 range but with long-end falling we think of replenishment in that pipeline is coming so we could see some modestly higher balances in the first quarter and we would probably anticipate that in the business so thats positive.
The other is we have seen as you might imagine a shift in our pipeline to more refi versus purchased.
I think we had been running most of last year as a 70% purchased 30% refi will probably more 55% 45% purchased refi right now and probably continue to move more to refi.
So were fairly optimistic at least over the next few months that we could see higher balances there.
Got it.
If I can sneak in one last question just in terms of the capital markets pretax income is there anything outside of the overall rate environment changing or the increase in volatility that could lead to growth in terms of pretax contribution from that business or not? This is Bryan again that in short order that the thing to move the needle the fastest will clearly be a pickup in fixed income activity and the volatility this week and last week with the moves at the EU made in terms of quantitative easing and even the de-linking of the Swiss Franc has increased volatility and so those things have been reasonably good for the business.
Now two weeks is not a trend but those are the things it will move fast.
In the longer-term the work that the FTN team Mike Kisber and the team or putting in place to build out our capabilities around municipal finance and building those businesses will not only change the mix of the business we think they will give us greater opportunity to grow the revenue base there.
So were working on a lot of fronts but clearly the most effective in the short run is going to be greater volatility in the fixed income markets it leads to more fixed income sales in market making.
And next question comes from Marty Mosby at Vining Sparks.
Hi.
Hi Marty.
I wanted to ask a little bit of a technical question on capital ratio and then also on interest rate sensitivity.
But on capital ratios your Tier 1 common ratio is improving but you are being able to pull down your tangible common equity which is really the more important when you start looking at returns.
How are you kind of efficiently managing between those two ratios? It seems like you are doing a real good job of effectively deploying capital in a way that will be productive.
Yes the tangible common equity I think this quarter was from a few different areas the intangibles were actually larger because of our branch acquisitions that was one thing movement in the discount rate and pension liability was another and then the modest amount of share repurchases that we did in the quarter obviously actually both tangible book value had a modest impact on that.
So I wish I could say I was really smart and figured out a great way to do that but this quarter it was a little bit more of those technical details that drove it.
I was trying to give you a little credit.
I appreciate that.
I want to talk about the yield curve impact that you show on page 13.
Basically what you are saying is a flattening of the yield curve would offset about 25% of your rate sensitivity.
What point of the yield curve are you applying when you are looking at the flattening there? Is it farther out or where is the sensitivity there? On which part? Im sorry Marty.
On page 13 you talk about the long end going down impacting you by about $9 million? Yes its more in the five year range is what we look at.
We dont have a ton of long dated assets that are beyond that.
Its mostly in that five range.
What if you looked in the two- to three-year range would it be a little bit more sensitive? I am trying to think of where it becomes -- the elasticity begins to increase a little bit more? Yes a majority of our durations on the balance sheet on the loan side would be in the probably three to four year range.
So anything in that range would be most sensitive but as you can see I mean if you just do a simple extrapolation its we are much more levered towards movement in short rates than we are even in the three to five plus area.
So on balance if the Fed does start to move rates we're going to be a net beneficiary of that movement.
The next question comes from Matthew Burnell of Wells Fargo.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning folks.
Thanks for taking my question.
Bryan a question for you.
You mentioned a couple of times in your comments the capital return and share repurchases that you have done over the last couple of years.
This year -- or 2014's capital returns at least in terms of buybacks were back-end loaded.
It looks like to us you had about a 45% to 50% payout ratio.
Obviously you just announced a higher dividend but you have also said in the past that in a low rate environment you would think about capital returns up to 100% of earnings.
Just trying to get a sense as to how you are thinking about that going forward into 2015 and 2016.
Yes.
I think Matt it really hasnt changed an awful lot in that regard we still think that we will in all likelihood be returning substantially all of our capital in the buyback and the dividend programs and obviously you noted the increase in the dividend because we do think its important reward our long-term shareholders.
Mechanically as you pointed out we did have it somewhat backend loaded in 2014 some of that is because of what we described say a year 15 months ago in terms of wanting to work through some of these mortgage related issues.
And then with the announcement of the TrustAtlantic we will be in a proxy solicitation so there will be certain limits in terms of how much we can buyback while were in that process but overall we still would expect to repatriate substantially all of our earnings and maintain our capital levels by getting capital back in our shareholders hands.
Okay thank you.
Then a question BJ for you I guess.
You are running at about 5% year-over-year loan growth.
It sounds like the pipelines are pretty good right now.
Can you give us a color as to the momentum in the pipelines and would you be willing to give us an outlook for loan growth either into the first quarter or through 2015? Sure Matt and Susan can jump in as well but weve been very pleased and I might even say pleasantly surprised by the ability of our bankers to actually put fundings on the balance sheet and yet remain - have the pipelines remain strong.
So we have seen that over the last three quarters and what our bankers will tell us is that the pipelines remain strong and we should continue to see good fundings.
We do see some seasonality from fourth to first that always seems to occur in terms of our fundings.
But we do believe that loan growth year-over-year as we go through the year can be pretty strong.
We saw 10% growth in the bank this year I am not going to sit here and predict double digit growth but can we have strong growth like that or close to that.
Yes I think we can weve seen good strength in commercial real estate.
Where we have a lot of capacity from a balance sheet perspective I think only 8% of our outstandings are in CRE so that gives us a lot of dry powder if you will where others might not have as much thats good.
Carolinas has seen very strong growth.
Our asset-based lending business is seeing good utilization and new customer growth as we talked about earlier.
So we are pretty positive on where we can see growth going forward into 2014.
This is Susan.
I would echo what BJ said.
We do continue to see our bankers doing a great job calling on existing customers as well as prospects in all of our markets and we have seen obviously growth in our specialty areas and some of the growth markets but weve also had success in our core more seasoned markets in terms of further penetrating existing customers with both on increased lines of credit lines also treasury management and so were encouraged by that.
The next question comes from John Pancari at Evercore.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Hi John.
Regarding the margin in 2015 I know you expect - you cited the impact you expect for the first quarter.
Can you give us a little bit more color on the pace of that rebound or that expansion that you cited coming out of first quarter and through the remainder of the year and then what that means for the full-year 2015 margin? Thanks.
Sure John so like Ive said I guess were at 286 this quarter I could see something in the 270s in the first quarter but then I think it rebounds back towards where we were at this quarter.
And then depending on the timing of rate increase I think it starts to climb pretty healthy from there.
Absent rate increases I think it goes back to the levels that kind of were at in the fourth quarter.
So in terms of 2015 margin I would think in the 280 range absent rate moves would probably be a good area to think about.
Okay all right.
And then separately on expenses back to your $20 million to $50 million that you have cited in terms of efficiencies that you're still focusing on can you just remind us - I mean do you expect that to ultimately come out of the run rate or do you expect a portion of it to be reinvested over time? And then separately what do you think about the efficiency ratio as you look into full-year 2015? Thanks.
I would hope that a good amount of the $20 million to $50 million over time would drop to the bottom line.
I think what youve seen from us over the last three years was a substantial amount of the expense reduction falling to the bottom line which is good.
I would change my language to some or a good amount of the reduction fall into bottom line now.
As Bryan talked about as I talked about it does get harder and as we see growth opportunities we want to continue to invest in good costs and so well reinvest some of that over time.
So I think the efficiency ratio in 2015 I would expect it to get better by a couple hundred basis points I would hope.
We are doing a lot of good things on both the numerator and the denominator there and so well keep chipping away at it and a couple hundred basis points I think would be good next year but we need to get it down a lot more than that and well need a lit bit more help on rates to really see a steeper improvement in new ratio.
The next question comes from Christopher Marinac at FIG Partners.
Thanks Bryan and BJ I was curious on the TCE ratio.
As you look at decisions on buying back more shares or looking at other acquisitions or anything in between is there a lower threshold where you don't want the TCE ratio to cross under? Chris its BJ.
I think not in a normalized environment whatever that is we think TCE ratio in that 6.5% to 7% range would be very appropriate for our balance sheet and a business mix that we would have with stress tests and binding constraints on stress tests in a severe adverse scenario can we go down to the 6.5 range maybe maybe not but weve got plenty of excess capital today to be able to get down to that range that 6.5 to 7 TCE to TA kind of implies a 8.5 to 9 little over 9 Tier 1 common ratio and again we think just operating normally that would be an optimal range for us to be in.
Okay great.
Thank you for that color.
And Bryan given the new investment in Houston is this a time where Houston could actually become a bigger opportunity for you just given changes in energy perhaps changes in other banks interest level in the market there? Yes were optimistic we think weve got great opportunities in the roughly 9 months 10 months that weve been building the business there we are seeing very good momentum we are seeing very good opportunities in fact David Popwell was there yesterday and today making customer calls so with our teams.
So were seeing very good receptivity there its a little too early to tell what the long-term impacts of lower oil and gas prices mean to the overall Houston economy clearly in the oil and gas price we're seeing capital investments reduced and that economy is likely to slow down some but given all of that it is you are sort of a new participant in the market youve got sort of a wide open field we think there would be a number of great opportunities weve have an opportunity to look at and we feel like we have the balance sheet capacity and appetite to be very proactive in booking those relationships.
Chris this is Susan.
To add on what Bryan was saying we actually think from a credit perceptive obviously to have the correction in energy prices at this time at the point in time we are entering the market will be a good opportunity for us to go in and bank some of these great companies that are there.
Weve hired bankers this year now with deep experience in relationships with both energy companies C&amp;I CRE and so we believe that there are opportunities there and that well be able to expand on those.
The next question comes from Ken Zerbe at Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning Ken.
I just want to go back to the reinvestment of the excess cash you guys have.
I heard you when you said you wanted to -- you were going to get most of that done by the end of first quarter and you said loan growth is the best option but I suspect you are probably not going to grow $1 billion of loans.
So unless you have any debt that you're going to retire that you're planning on it seems like the only way you're going to really redeploy all this cash is by investing it into securities which is probably like you said a tough choice right now given low rates.
Am I wrong in assuming that most of this is going to go through into securities growth and is that baked into your 2.80% NIM expectations for 2015? Yes.
Yes I dont think a lot of its going to go into securities if I didnt say it as clearly as I should have before I apologize.
Yes there isnt a lot of buying opportunity in securities debt at levels long rates are at.
So there could be places where we have opportunities to do that but you wont see the securities portfolio grow meaningfully.
Debt retirement capital instrument retirement yes well look at all of that could it be opportunities in our trading inventory at FTN and we could certainly look at things like that even though we're not a proprietary trader caring inventory for customer purposes in different areas we could certainly look at all of that said I would like to get most of this excess cash put to work by the end of the first quarter but if we have to whole more excess cash because there is not an economic opportunity to put it to work well just send it back to the Fed and do it in a smart way which might depress the NIM a little longer than I would want it to but NII will be fine and well be proud of the balance sheet going forward.
Hey Ken this is Bryan Ill pick up on BJs comments its hard to layout completely because we are still working through and BJ has I think done a good job of laying out some of the alternatives and you got I think keep in perspective that this is the result of a high class problem we saw very good strong deposit growth and were always great with deposit growth we want to see that and so were encouraged by it and well figure out how to put the cash to work in a smart way.
Were not going to put the interest rate sensitive or the balance sheet at risk were going manage through it smartly but its the result of a high class problem and well continue to work through how we put that cash to work and be very smart hopefully about the way we do it.
Got it understood.
Okay and then just a really quick one on the capital markets.
I think you mentioned that you did see some increased ADR because of the market volatility.
Can you quantify that what you have seen so far in January? Yes and I will go back to what I said earlier to before but do that weve you cant take two or three week and make a trend for a quarter so but we did see it move back up a couple of hundred thousand dollars a day above where it had been running in the fourth quarter we have had a million dollar week in there so but again I want to be very careful two weeks is not a trend there are some unique events going on the world they create volatility but it does underscore in my view the fundamental strength of a platform that there is pent-up demand that we have good calling efforts and that when activity picks up were going to benefit very very nicely from that activity.
So its a little better well see where it plays out the rest of the quarter and as we look into this year we think in this area where weve been in the fourth quarter potentially all year but were optimistic if things improve were going to benefit from that very nicely.
The next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom at Guggenheim Securities.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Eric.
BJ you have given a lot of very clear guidance and roadmap but I just want to follow up on the issue of the first quarter because for NIM to be or for NII dollars rather to be more or less flat with the first quarter with a NIM that's down let's say another 10-ish kind of basis points would suggest some kind of resurgence in first-quarter loan growth and yet some of the seasonality would argue for the opposite.
So I just want to make sure Im understanding all of the dynamics of what may be occurring on the balance sheet.
Sure.
So excess cash if that stays around that were earning 25 basis points on that when our net interest margin is 286 and if you have got lets say a $1 billion of that and earning assets of $20 billion thats a material amount thats only earning a modest amount so thats kind of depress the NIM pretty good.
Where we do see the other piece in first quarter is going to be a lower day accounts so those two will be main drivers.
The positives that will occur is as I alluded to earlier I do see or hope that loans to mortgage companies could be better they carry higher yields much higher yields than our aggregate portfolio does and so that will certainly be a [mitigant] in terms of net interest income.
So like I said if you put all those things in the mix NII flat to modestly down is something that I think is going to occur.
Thanks.
Just to follow up could you give us a status update on TrustAtlantic and what - if there has been any change to the expected closing date or conditions there? Eric this is Bryan were in process - the regulatory applications are in process we would expect to file the securities registrations statements in the not too distinct future our timeline and expectation is that we would receive hopefully the requisite approvals by sometime in the second quarter and that we would close and begin the integration process sometime in the middle of the late second quarter.
Okay thanks very much.
You are welcome.
End of Q&amp;A This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back to Bryan Jordan for closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you all for joining us on our call this morning.
We appreciate your interest in our Company.
Please let us know if you have any additional questions or you need any additional information.
I hope you all have a great weekend.
Thank you again.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Aarti Bowman Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Gary.
Please note that the earnings release financial supplement and slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and in our most annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this web cast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; our CFO BJ Losch; additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
I am pleased with what we accomplished in the first quarter and feel good about the rest of the year.
Our regional bank delivered solid loan and deposit growth.
Our capital markets businesses rebounded.
We continue to prudently deploy capital and we made significant progress towards putting legacy mortgage issues behind us.
Our bankers focus on calling efforts paid off with good growth in our specialty lending areas.
Year-over-year the regional bank grew acreage loans 14% with commercial loans up 15% and asset base lending up 13%.
Commercial real estate grew 27% from customer growth and an increase in fundings.
Now the commercial real estate portfolio comprises about 9% of our regional bank loans.
Average core deposits in the bank increased 9%.
We are encouraged by our bankers' success in winning new quality relationships as well as deepening existing relationships.
At FTN Financial average daily fixed income revenues were up 8% year-over-year.
FTN's broad based delivery system and product capabilities enabled us to capitalize on the first quarter's improved market conditions.
As you saw last week we resolved the key legacy mortgage issue.
We reached in agreement in principle with the DoJ/HUD to settle certain potential claims related to underwriting and origination of FHA insured mortgage loans.
Although the settlement impacted first quarter's expenses this marked another major legal resolution.
Consolidated expenses excluding the litigation charge were down 2% from a year ago and the regional banks' efficiency ratio improved 234 basis points.
We remain committed to further controlling our costs.
Capital remains strong with a first quarter common equity tier-1 ratio of 10.3%.
During the first quarter we bought back about 1 million common shares.
Recall we are somewhat limited in our share buybacks while we wait for the Trust Atlantic acquisition to close.
Our asset quality trends were favorable.
Non-performing assets declined 31% year-over-year and net charge-offs were down 45%.
Overall 2015 is off to a good start.
The economy is steady and we are making good progress on key initiatives to achieve our bonefish targets.
Our balance sheet is strong we are increasing our customer base and continuing to profitably and prudently grow our specialty lending portfolios and our expenses are on track.
Improving economic profit remains a top priority.
We are continuing to provide new tools and databases to support our employees' efforts to measure RAROC and economic profit.
We are also beginning to incorporate economic profit into our incentive programs.
I will now turn the call over to BJ for some more financial details about the quarter and then I will be back for some closing comments.
BJ? Thanks Brian.
Good morning everybody.
I will start on slide 6; for the first quarter Brian mentioned net loss available to common $77 million or $0.33 a share.
Obviously we incurred this significant pre-tax expense related to the agreement in principle and so excluding that litigation charge our net income available to common was $42 million or about $0.18 a share in the first quarter.
Slide 7 shows you an overview of our segment highlights but let's go straight to some more detail on our core businesses in the next few slides.
So starting with the regional bank on slide 8 where we continue to see strong profit and growth momentum.
From a profitability perspective year-over-year net income was up 31% and pre-provision net revenue was up 13%.
Linked quarter they were down 6% and 7% respectively due to mostly seasonal factors.
From fourth to first quarter net interest income was down 2% due to day count and a decrease in loan fees which was somewhat offset by the increase in commercial loan outstandings.
Non-interest income was down 6% again from seasonality and deposit fees and a decrease in brokerage and trust revenues largely driven by slower customer activity primarily due to weather.
Expenses declined 1% linked quarter and loan loss provision was $5 million in the first quarter a decrease from the fourth.
Turning to slide 9 on regional bank balance sheet trends.
Average loans were up 3% linked quarter and 14% year-over-year.
Our specialty lending areas drove the majority of the loan growth.
Linked quarter we had a 5% increase in average loans in asset based lending and loans to mortgage company increased 12% reflecting higher re-fi activity in the quarter.
Core commercial loans grew 4% led by growth in mid-Atlantic and in Chattanooga.
We saw encouraging commercial utilization rates from borrowers in the quarter with the linked quarter increase in utilization of about 300 basis points.
Net interest spread in the bank remained steady at 337 basis points in the quarter versus 336 in the fourth.
Our bankers remain disciplined with pricing and underwriting to ensure their balance sheet demonstrates our commitment to improving economic profit while delivering strong loan growth.
Turning to FTN on slide 10 in the fixed income business; net income was $7 million in the first quarter up from $4 million in the fourth.
Fixed income activity was stronger in the first quarter with average daily revenues of $877 000 compared to $630 000 in the fourth quarter.
Expenses were up as you would expect due to higher variable compensation and the normal seasonal increase in FICA expenses.
The higher activity in the first quarter reflected improved market conditions from increased rate volatility that led to better flows all the desks.
Turning to slide 11 and looking at the overall company balance sheet and margin trends average total assets were $26 billion and were up 4% from fourth quarter to first quarter.
Linked quarter average consolidated loans were up 2% and core deposits grew 7%.
Average consumer deposits were up 4% while commercial deposits grew 9% driven by continued inflow from our customers and a seasonal buildup of cash in the first quarter.
As anticipated our consolidated net interest income declined modestly from fewer days in the quarter and net interest margin declined 12 basis points to 274.
The margin decline was driven largely by our excess liquidity position due to strong deposit balances and lower loan fees.
If we step back and put all of this into perspective by looking at year-over-year results it is very impressive.
Total average loans were up 7% and average core deposits are up 11%.
Net interest income is up 3% with loan interest income up 3% while interest expense on deposit was down 18% all while our credit quality remains strong.
We are very pleased with how our bankers are managing to generate both strong balance sheet growth and improve economic profitability.
Turning to slide 12 we continue to make meaningful process with our efficiency efforts.
Since 1Q 2012 our annualized expenses excluding mortgage purchase and legal costs have declined 22% and year-over-year our consolidated expenses have decreased while we continue to invest in revenue generating opportunities.
In the bank we are hiring talent in our markets such as Houston Mid-Atlantic and in Nashville and we have seen the good cost of higher variable compensation in capital markets related to increases in revenues; and excluding litigation charges we are continuing to see non-strategic costs decline.
Turning to asset quality on slide 13 we are seeing continued favorable trends in our asset quality ratios as Brian talked about.
Linked quarter our net chargeoffs declined 25% and our non-performing assets were down 2%.
Loan loss reserve decreased modestly and the allowance to loans ratio stands 136 basis points.
New credits are of strong quality and we are pleased with the risk characteristics and performance of our loan portfolio.
Slide 14 shows the transition of our 4Q tier-1 common ratio to this quarter's common equity tier-1.
As you can see our capital ratios remain strong this quarter.
Impacts to our capital ratios were driven by the effects of the phase-in of Basel-III which started in the quarter and the litigation charge which were somewhat offset by retained earnings.
Additionally we saw a linked quarter increase in risk weighted assets from strong commercial loan growth in the bank and an increase in trading assets at FTN.
With this quarter's legal matter behind us and solid earnings momentum we believe that we will have further flexibility over time to utilize and deploy our excess capital profitably.
Wrapping up on slide 15 and 16 we continue to focus and make progress towards our bonefish targets as the momentum of our core businesses improves our non-strategic portfolio runs-off and we are moving past our legacy mortgage issues while deploying capital.
Our bonefish building blocks on slide 16 show our path to our long term goals.
We will continue to control what we can control as demonstrated through the blocks of achieving efficiencies profitably growing in our markets improving economic profit and risk adjusted returns across all our businesses and deploying capital smartly.
Lastly while we don't control when or at what pace rates will rise we have remained ready and able to capture significant revenue benefit once short rates [indiscernible].
With that I will turn it back over to Brian.
Thank you BJ.
As I said earlier I am pleased with the momentum we have seen so far in 2015.
Throughout the year we will continue to strengthen our balance sheet prudently manage expenses wind-down the non-strategic business and improve the economic profitability of the company.
We should make ongoing progress towards achieving the bonefish targets that BJ talked about and building franchise value over the course of the year.
Thanks to tall of our First Horizon employees for all that you do.
Now with that operator we will take questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Steven Alexopoulos with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
I want to start -- now that you guys have the HUD settlement essentially behind you how should we think about a good run rate for legal and professional fees for the rest of the 2015 and then beyond that? Hey Steve its BJ.
Good morning.
If you look in the financial supplement don't know if you got a chance to do that yet we have seen a material decline already in our legal fees just with the timing of bills and such.
Clearly the DoJ-FHA matter was a big drag.
So we started to see that decline in a pretty material way and we should see further declines.
I think we have roughly a run rate now of about $7 million in legal costs and so we think that that will continue to come down over the next several quarters.
Okay.
And then shifting gears to the capital markets business.
So a good increase obviously volatility in the quarter and ADR was better but its still below the low end of the range.
What do you ultimately think it will take to get ADR back into the targeted range? So Steve I will take that one.
We were very pleased with what we saw in our business this quarter.
And it kind of goes to show you how quickly our platform can capture additional market volatility when it's there.
If you actually look daily at all the trading days and what we saw 30% of the days in the quarter were above $1 million and many of them were well above $1 million.
And so the volume is there the $1 million days are certainly there and so the more that we can capture that the better we are going to be able to generate revenue.
Its hard as we have talked about previously to predict what's going to go on in the markets.
And so don't know whether its going to go higher or whether its going to stay where its at.
But generally speaking we feel good about where its at right now as a good run rate for the next few months given that volatility continues to generally be in our favor in the business.
And I guess BJ on the flipside of that rate volatility is up but only 30% of the days were over $1 million and it has been quite a few quarters since we have actually seen you in the range.
I mean do you guys have conversations internally that this could potentially be a structural change to the business and not just a cyclical downturn? Steve this is Bryan.
I think it may have been talked in two or three quarters ago.
I think on this call we talked about -- in all likelihood the business is going to be less than $1 million a day in ADR for the next several quarters and maybe into a couple of years.
Yes its entirely possible that we have seen a structural shift especially because its unclear how the reversal of the interest rate decline that has been going on in a holistic sense for 25-30 years is going to reverse here in the near term.
So sure we think there is the potential that that has happened and we have put our plans in place around it.
To compensate for that we are clearly looking to expand our product capabilities and move into the municipal finance business and improve our general market municipal finance distribution and trading.
So yes we are not certain that you get back into that range on a consistent basis for a period of time.
But I think we can have as we demonstrated this quarter very nice profitability driven by something and we were profitable last quarter 6.30 we are more profitable this quarter at 8.75 and we are even more profitable at $1 million a day in average daily revenue.
So we think we can manage the business in a broader range of volatility is around [ph] average daily revenue.
But we are trying to position the business to grow.
But back to your question sure we think that we could be under that $1 million ADR for the next several quarters and we are just really uncertain where these rates go.
The next question comes from Emlen Harmon with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Emlen.
Going back to the expenses I was hoping to hit on a comp line as well up $13 million quarter-over-quarter.
Presuming a big chunk of the $8 million increase in capital markets expense hitting that line because obviously some FICA in there as well.
Is there anything else driving that expense line higher and just how should we think about the trajectory there going forward? Yeah hey its BJ.
Virtually all of the increase is from variable comp and capital markets plus the FICA resets that happened.
Its nothing that we are seeing.
We talked about that we are making investments in talent in Houston particularly Nashville and the Mid-Atlantic but they wouldn't have a material impact on what you would see quarter-to-quarter.
You can actually see -- if you look at the supplement our aggregate FTEs in the company are actually down.
So we are managing all of those expenses including compensation tightly.
I am sorry did you mention just how much FICA was on a -- kind of an all-in basis for the company? I don't have it with me.
We can get back to you on it.
Okay.
No problem.
And then obviously -- just wanted to talk about NIM a little bit; obviously the addition of liquidity its kind of a near term wait there.
And do you have a sense of how quickly you're hoping to deploy some of that liquidity either into the long book or the securities portfolio and just what it could mean for a bounce back in the NIM over the next few quarters here? Sure.
So if you actually look our average balances in interest bearing cash were actually up from the fourth quarter.
So about $1.450 billion versus $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter.
So again as I talked about we had much stickier commercial deposits than I would have guessed which is a good thing.
We had a buildup of cash that we normally see in the first quarter that added to that which was great.
But if you look at period end interest and cash its in the $450 million range.
So by the end of the quarter we had actually gotten it down significantly and so I'd see it in the second quarter in the $400 million to $600 million or the $400 million and $700 million range.
So we are managing that cash down but from an average basis you didn't quite see it in the quarter.
So I feel pretty good about that and how we are managing that down and putting it to good use.
So in terms of the margin I think it still stays in the 270s range for now and so depending on when rates rise we think it stays there and then can move into the high 270s or the 280s depending on whether we should see short rates move soon.
Emlen this is Bryan; I will sort of editorialize and Susan may want to jump in as well.
I feel really good about as BJ said earlier in his prepared comments about the loan growth opportunities that we are seeing.
I think our structure and our pricing has been very good; and as I look at loan pipelines as we transition into the second quarter here our loan pipelines are very-very strong and we feel very-very good about the outlook for continued loan closings in the second quarter.
All of that said we have seen in the first quarter sort of an acceleration of the weakening of pricing and structure in the marketplace.
I may have commented in the past we saw it stabilizing a little bit in the second half of 2014.
We have seen a further acceleration of that weakening of pricing structure in the marketplace.
And so we think we can see a lot of good growth opportunities in acquiring customers and building relationships and as I commented earlier filling up these fundings that we have got on some commercial real estate.
And so we think there are opportunities to put this cash to work in customer oriented ways and feel very-very good about those prospects.
This is Susan.
I would agree with Bryan.
We are seeing some excellent opportunities with both -- growing with existing clients as well as bringing on good prospects that we have been calling on for some time.
And we are seeing that strengths across our specialty areas which have been a source of strength for sometime but also across our core commercial teams in our markets.
And so its good to see the strengths in the pipeline.
But as Bryan said we did see probably some increased pressure in the first quarter on both pricing and structure.
While we remain disciplined we do look for opportunities and we need to get a little bit competitive to win good business that we believe is good relationship long term business for us.
We have also continued to see improved grade migration in our portfolio.
So the risk-return profile remains very strong.
The next question comes from Ebrahim Poonawala with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I guess Bryan so you just mentioned in terms of loan pipelines were very strong.
I was wondering if you can sort of elaborate on that a little bit in terms of where loan growth came from this quarter in terms of Tennessee versus some of the other expansion and the Mid-Atlantic markets that you have talked about and what's the outlook in terms of just the breakdown of how much of that slightly to come from Tennessee versus sort of outside of Tennessee? Yeah.
We have seen very good trends across all the markets.
We feel like we are -- we still got very strong traction in West Tennessee and you saw a lot of closings in the Western part of the state.
Middle Tennessee is building a tremendous amount of traction there and BJ talked earlier about building out the teams and hiring bankers.
We have hired and made a couple of very key hires there in the last 90 days or so that will help us continue to build the momentum.
We are seeing good opportunities across the state and our pipeline is pretty full.
We are also seeing very good opportunities in Houston as you see some of the reset going on in oil prices and energy lending.
We have a very strong pipeline going into the second quarter there.
And then our Mid-Atlantic market is also seeing great opportunity.
And its really across all the products I think we are getting very good traction in our C&amp;I businesses as well as our commercial real estate businesses.
And then sort of non-geographically oriented the specialty business mortgage warehouse lending continues to see good opportunities and opportunity to expand lines pick up customers and our ABL businesses have been strong.
Susan you may want to comment further? I would just add to what Bryan said; we are seeing across the board.
We do see increased momentum in Houston.
As you may recall we opened that office in March of last year and so we are seeing a strong pipeline in [indiscernible] C&amp;I and energy out of Houston.
Mid-Atlantic remains strong and we had particularly good growth in our Southeast Tennessee market this quarter as well.
Understood.
And just on a separate topic in terms of the HUD settlement behind you.
Doe that make you more active in terms of looking at potential acquisition opportunities from here or how are you thinking about that from a capital deployment perspective? Well I don't think it really changes our desire to put capital to work.
As we have talked about it and BJ commented earlier we take a pretty disciplined approach to look into dividends and buyback and deploying capital in the business.
And as BJ described the low forward [ph] in the charts of the common equity tier-1 I guess make the shifts in terms.
You saw a lot of opportunity to put the capital to work in the near term in the balance sheet through loan growth opportunity.
So we are going to be disciplined we are going to look for continued opportunities to grow.
We are pleased with the pending transaction at Trust Atlantic and we think there will be other opportunities to grow the franchise.
But I don't think it changes whether we have our foot anymore on the accelerator any less we are just going to continue to be disciplined.
The next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
This is actually Thomas on behalf of Paul.
Just as a follow-up I guess to Steve's earlier question I am going to ask it a different way.
Of the 7 million of legal costs in the quarter is there any way to get a sense of how much of that was attributed to the settlement that's now behind you? This is Bryan.
I think a little bit of what you see in the first quarter is just some of the lumpiness in the time the billings; there is going to be -- because of the timing of reaching the agreement on the settlement there is going to be a little bit of a follow-on.
But as BJ said earlier over the course of the year we expect that to trend line down and we think we could have significant savings in the $15 million plus range over the course of the year as having this kind of activity behind us.
Okay.
That's great.
And then one quick follow-up; you guys have talked about Houston a couple of times during the call; I know the business is relatively new.
Where are you guys seeing the most opportunity there and what kind of loans are you looking to make in this sort of environment? Thomas this is Susan.
As I mentioned before we have now got bankers in Houston focused on core C&amp;I commercial real estate and energy; and in looking at the most recent pipeline we have got a strong pipeline in all of those categories.
Obviously we are watching energy prices as it relates to how it may affect Houston.
But we feel very confident about our ability to grow a very strong good book of business there with the bankers that we have hired.
The next question comes from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
Just a quick question; on the cash balances and also the commercial deposit growth; I think I heard you say that the average like $1.45 billion in the period was $450 million.
Was any of that related to deposit outflows in the quarter or by that quarter end; because normally first quarter should be a seasonally weaker quarter for commercial deposits but you had very strong growth.
So I am just wondering if there was any -- or if you expect any of those commercial deposits to flow out or if they already have? Yeah hey.
Good morning its BJ.
Yes.
So we certainly expect some to flow out and like I said earlier I thought that we would see more outflow honestly from the normal ebb and flow of deposits from fourth to first.
So fourth to first they stayed higher than what I would have thought.
We did start to see some of those balances as we would expect to come out towards the end of the quarter.
We would expect some more to come out trending towards tax-day in mid-April and so we expect some of that to come back.
But with all of that said the core deposit gathering that we are seeing in commercial deposits is very positive.
We are seeing it from core commercial clients from business banking clients as well as public fronts deposits.
So we feel very good about what the deposit base looks like.
Okay great.
And then just one quick follow-up; on page 7 of the slide deck technical question.
You mentioned a tax benefit of $12 million in corporate.
But it looks like it also happened in the fourth quarter; is that a onetime item or is that just sort of an ongoing benefit that you get? I think its more -- I think the term tax benefit its really more related to -- the corporate segment has a net loss and so tax -- instead of having income tax expense its a tax benefit.
That's all it is.
Got it.
Perfect.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Hovde Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Kev.
One subject you did touch on it earlier if you could just expand a little is on buybacks.
Number one the stock has done pretty well lately and is higher and you mentioned Bryan I believe that you guys are somewhat limited with the Trust Atlantic deal pending.
So if you can just give us a gauge over the next few quarters should we really expect to dial back or really little buybacks or what to look at from that front? Thanks.
Yeah we still have -- BJ can help me I think in the neighborhood of $45 million or so in the current authorization that we have.
You are correct I did say earlier that the Trust Atlantic closing is going to have some impact on our ability to buy in the near term.
But longer term we still think that there is value in buying back our own stock.
We are going to look for opportunities to repurchase and do it in an opportunistic fashion.
And as I said to the earlier question to Ebrahim we look at it in a balanced fashion we look at it in a context of overall deployment etcetera but we think there are going to be continued opportunities to use the buyback as a way to get capital back in our shareholder's hands and we will look for opportunities to do that as soon as we get free of some these trading restrictions that are impacted by the merger.
One quick follow-up; thanks Bryan; on the Trust Atlantic deal.
I know on one hand months ago we got the news about those commercial lenders that departed.
But on the other hand you've talked quite a bit today about your hiring efforts.
So where is that going to net out? Have you replaced those guys or have you more than replaced them as you are about to come into the Raleigh market? Thanks.
I want to be really clear because it is real important for them and real important for us.
There is still an independent institution and they are still managing an independent institution and they have done some hiring to do some replacement there.
We think our opportunities to hire and build out once that merger is consummated and Raleigh is going to be really-really strong.
We are pleased with the team that we see there and we are hopeful that sometime over the next month or two we can get the final regulatory approvals as shareholder vote comes up I think in the early part of May May 2nd to be exact.
And then once we get the clearance from the OCC and the Fed.
We'd like to get that consummated and we think we can continue to build on the momentum that they have in the marketplace and that we separately have in the marketplace.
The next question comes from Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Could you guys talk about what your business development staffing looks like in the national market how you'd like to continue to grow that over the next couple of years? Yeah Jennifer good morning this is Bryan.
I have pointed out just in the last nine days we have made a couple of new hires.
We hired a very strong leader for our commercial banking effort there.
We also hired a new leader for our business banking effort in the marketplace.
We are having a lot of good conversations with bankers to continue to build out that team.
Carol Yochem who leads the market for us has been on board for a little over a year and has created a great deal of momentum.
And in fact tonight we will open First Tennessee Park or the National sales [0:36:42] will open First Tennessee Park there.
So we see a tremendous part of initiative.
We think our hiring efforts have gone very well over the last couple of months.
We are getting these key leadership positions filled and on the ground is going to create further momentum for us.
And that coupled with the strong customer calls that our team is making and the reception that these bankers are getting I feel very optimistic about our ability to make significant progress there over the next year or two.
Thanks so much.
You're welcome.
The next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Just a couple of questions please; the first I I am just looking at slide 14 which has the reconciliation of the tier-1 comment to the common equity tier-1.
And my question is the 10 basis points of reduction from the phasing of Basel-III was that just from the exclusion of certain of the preferreds from the capital stack? That has some impact on it.
But then a lot of it is related to increased RWA.
Okay.
So that was my follow-on question because the -- I am just having difficulty reconciling between the 50 basis points of RWA impact and then the change in GAAP versus RWA assets as disclosed in the supplement in the back pages there.
So can you just specify how much of the RWA impact was from Basel-III transition versus how much was from simple asset growth? Yeah sure so -- I am going to give you round numbers.
But let's say RWA I think was up $1.3 billion; $400 million of it or so was Basel-III impact.
$400 million or so was loans to mortgage companies growth.
$300 million or so was trading assets at FTN and the balance was loan growth -- the rest of the loan growth that we saw in the regional bank.
Great.
And just a follow-up on the NIM discussion; I am just looking at slide 11 and the reconciliation that you provide from the fourth to first quarter it indicates there that basically half of the compression came from the deposit growth? And so I am just trying to reconcile that trend with your outlook of remaining here in the low 270 range because I am wondering if that suggests that to the extent this deposit growth continues we would see a similar magnitude of NIM decline? That's a good question.
Like I said I think we have managed down our excess cash which is positive.
So I do think that we will see less of a drag on deposit growth.
And so that will certainly be a positive.
Our bankers have done a great job holding yields but I think as Susan and Bryan both alluded to its getting harder to do that.
The competitive pressure that we are seeing there is pretty intense and we would actually say its probably intensified in the last few quarters.
So we think there will continue to be pressure on commercial loan yields.
So all of that said I think I said earlier that we expected in the 270s flowing up towards the higher end of that and then again if rates do start to rise at some point we can see high 270s into the 280s.
The next question comes from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys I wanted to ask you about GE and how you guys compete with them in some ways? I think specifically about asset-based lending.
Do you guys have market share statistics or you look at what your market share is at the base lending versus theirs and you think that axing the business has any impact on what you guys will be doing? Jefferson this is Bryan.
I guess our market share is certainly dwarfed by theirs.
Your question is -- requires a little bit of speculation but I think directionally its likely to be as they go through some transition of selling these businesses and these assets there is going to be some dislocation.
And we think in some of these specialized areas there might be some opportunities to pick up some additional customer relationships and I think it may also be an opportunity for us to look at some fill-ins and products that we might be able to round out.
So we are relatively small in the asset based lending compared to them but we think that with this transition there could be some very nice opportunities for us to pick up some incremental or additional business and round out the products there.
Would you guys look to possibly some of this business or at least chunks going to be too big for you guys to look at that? Or will they be sold in small enough pieces on these smaller businesses that it might be appropriate for a bank the size of yours? Well its hard Jefferson to know completely what their strategy would be.
But my guess is they are going to look for bigger transactions rather than smaller transactions for a lot of reasons and probably more importantly its easier to execute.
So its unlikely that we would be a participant in that because in terms of significant of those those features of portfolio are so significant to our balance sheet at that we would be a participant.
And is there any other areas where the banks have touched GE or [indiscernible] with them I am thinking about maybe the permanent market maybe paydown slowdown or paydowns that are coming at more reasonable prices that slows it down.
Are there other places we should think about that might benefit you besides ABL or is it pretty much ABL is what we should focus? I can't think of anything off the top of my head.
I think its largely the ABL businesses.
I think another piece of it is who acquires it or the regulated financial institutions how does it impact their short term operating model does it go into the unregulated space and none of that is known at this point.
But we think anytime you have transitioned in any of these markets its an opportunity to look for additional customer relationships that we can pick up and we will certainly do that.
But we don't think there will be a whole lot of direct impact on our broader balance sheet.
The next question comes from Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Hello there.
I have got two questions one very specific and the second much broader.
The very specific question is the 10.3% common equity tier-1 on page 15 is that a phased in or a fully phased number and if its a phased-in number what is the corresponding fully phased figure? Sure.
So that is the phased-in number.
The fully phased in number would be in aggregate 30 basis points.
And that will come in over the next couple of years.
And then the broader question is on deployment of capital following the HUD/DoJ settlements.
I know you have touched on this in some of the other answers but can you walk through how you think about where you should be in terms of capital ratios longer term then how you would kind of decide between M&amp;A buybacks increased dividend organic growth what kind of ranking you put on those different alternatives? Geoffrey this is Bryan.
If you go back to -- I think its a slide following to a slide you just referred to on 14 is sort of our bonefish methodology and we still have eight to nine common equity tier-1 or using the same numbers in tier-1.
I think in broad measures we still feel very comfortable with that being an appropriate range of capital through the cycle.
And as the economy continues to recover as credit quality continues to recover and as we have made resolution of some of these significant mortgage overhangs like we talked about earlier in the call it gives us flexibility to move in that direction over time.
In terms of thinking about how we prioritize capital; number one is always can we put the capital to work in the existing franchise by growing our business organically can we grow customer relationships loan balances etcetera and do it that way.
And then I would say to and the tie is [ph] do we use dividend and buyback policy or M&amp;A to put that capital to work.
And that's really going to change based on -- as you might expect the variables in the marketplace.
What the stock price is at any one given point in time versus what potential we have to do an M&amp;A transaction.
So we weight those consistently and we look at it back and forth.
As I said over a long period of time we don't think that we have to warehouse capital to do potential M&amp;A transactions.
We think that good transactions if you need to raise capital you can raise the capital for them.
and so we intend to be disciplined and look to put it in the highest and best use.
So its really a time for dividend buyback and M&amp;A and we clearly want to look for organic growth opportunities.
And we continue to -- we evaluate it quarter-to-quarter and we will be continually disciplined about it.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
The next question comes from Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
BJ just another follow-up question on slide 11.
The interest rate sensitivity information that we have been seeing for a while.
How does it play out that it would be flatter or even just a negative yield curve if that were to occur? Yeah so to state the obvious a flatter yield curve certainly hurts particularly if its flattening in the three to five year part of the curve let's say and we are actually seeing that.
If you look over the last three or four months the curve has materially flattened there.
So that's certainly a negative.
But I think as I have said before in aggregate looking at our balance sheet.
We have much more of a positive impact from short rates rising because 65% of our loans are floating rate assets that are repriced immediately.
We have about $3 billion or so repricing gap within 12 months between our assets repricing and the liability.
So we are going to be very well with whatever the yield looks like.
Clearly we'd want more speed.
But if it flattens we will still get material benefit from the late NIM coming [ph] in our balance sheet.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And Bryan just a separate follow-up for you.
We have seen two banks get sold in Chattanooga in the last month.
Just using that market as an example where you got long time market share history there.
Did you have to do anything different in a market like Chattanooga? Just that you'd play defense or just will it continue to be in the offense there? Yeah Chris I will tell you we got a really-really good team over in Chattanooga and they are doing a fantastic job.
Susan commented earlier about the strong growth that we have seen there.
And our team over there is doing a great job acquiring new relationships building deeper and broader relationships and doing it in high quality fashion.
As you probably know being close to Chattanooga there is a lot of growth going on over there and you see a lot of the industry coming in you see it continue to build out around the BW plant that was build there a few years ago Amazon's buildout.
So we are optimistic about the prospects there.
I would say if we are going to do anything different we are going to get more front-footed with institutions going through transition.
We are not going to be more defensive we are going to be more aggressive in the marketplace and I'm repeating myself a little bit bit with the team we have got over there I am very confident that we will continue to grow share in that marketplace.
Great Bryan.
Thanks for the color there.
Sure thing.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Bryan Jordan for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you everyone for joining the call this morning and thank you as well for your interest in our company.
Please let us know if you need any additional information or have further questions.
Thank you again to our team for all that you're doing to take care of our customer relationships.
I hope you all have a great weekend.
Thank you very much.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Aarti Bowman Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Please note that the earnings release financial supplement and slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and in our most annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in these materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning everyone.
I hope youre all doing well.
I'm very pleased with the progress that we saw in the second quarter of this year.
As you know we've been working for a number of years to reposition the company focusing on the bonefish and return on equity and we continue to see good progress there.
In the quarter we saw solid loan growth which led to solid revenue growth.
We continue to remain focused on expense control and our credit quality continues to look very very good.
So I'm pleased with the momentum that we have as we start into the second half of 2015.
As you know interest rates are a big variable for the industry and it looks like were getting closer to the point where well see liftoff from the fed.
BJ Im sure will talk more about expectations around margin.
We did see some improvement in the quarter.
So all in all I'm pleased with the quarter I'm pleased with the progress we see headed into the second half of the third quarter.
And with that I'll turn it over to BJ to walk through more specifics on the numbers.
Great.
Thanks Bryan and good morning to everybody.
I'll start really on slide six.
You can see for the second quarter our net income available to common shareholders was $51 million or $0.22 a share compared to the loss of $0.33 a share in the first.
You will remember that our first quarter results included the pre-tax charge related to a resolution of a DoJ/HUD matter.
So if you adjust 1Q15 for that settlement we were probably in the $0.18 or so range.
In 2Q15 we did not have any notable items and there are few things that I think you're going to see through the rest of the slides that I think we're pretty proud of.
One is our operating leverage our revenue versus expense growth was again positive on a linked quarter and a year-over-year basis driven by very strong balance sheet growth and resulting revenue growth.
Our credit quality remains very solid with loan loss provision of $2 million and net charge-offs in aggregate of $9 million or about 21 basis points.
You'll notice while the expenses look relatively higher than expected in the quarter there were several smaller items that contributed to this and we still see expense discipline evident across the Company.
Slide 7 shows an overview of our segment highlights but let's just go straight to some more detail on our core businesses over the next few slides.
To start with the regional bank on slide 8 our regional bank performance continued its momentum and we're again pleased with the results this quarter.
Pre-provision net revenue was $88 million up 11% linked quarter and up 7% year-over-year.
From first to second quarter net interest income increased 7% largely driven by higher commercial loan volume and an increase in loan fee collections as well as cash basis income.
Linked quarter our non-interest income was up 10% in the bank primarily due to a seasonal rebound in NSF fees but all of our regional bank fee-based business line showed steady to higher results.
For instance our brokerage fees were up 9% and our trust income grew 11% as we saw improving activity in these areas in the quarter as well.
You'll see in the bank our loan loss provision increased to $17 million in the second quarter compared to $5 million in the first.
Though net charge offs remain historically low at $10 million for the quarter the provision increase was driven by the strong loan growth that we saw a continued extension of the loss emergence period assumption on commercial loans and an increase in the reserve for a single credit related to fraud overall though we believe our credit trends in the bank continue to be stable.
Expenses were up in the bank 6% linked quarter from higher personnel costs from investing in our growth markets as well as adjusting incentive compensation to retain talent along with other various line items.
Despite this increase linked quarter overall expense discipline again remains solid in the bank.
Taking a look at the regional bank balance sheet on slide 9 we continue to see broad based relationship growth across various lines of business and markets particularly in our more economically profitable areas.
Overall average loans were up 6% linked quarter and up 16% year-over-year.
Linked quarter we had a 55% increase in average loans to mortgage companies with strong purchase and refi volume flowing through our balance sheet.
Average commercial real estate loans grew 5% with increases across our markets in multifamily hospitality retail and other property types such as student housing and assisted living facilities.
Additionally CRE borrowers continued to fund up on prior commitments.
Asset base lending was up 2% linked quarter primarily from consumer finance and factory.
And commercial loans excluding loans to mortgage companies in aggregate grew 3% linked quarter and 13% year-over-year.
We still see pricing and underwriting remaining competitive.
Our net interest spread declined only 2 basis points and 3 basis points in loan yield which was somewhat mitigated by modestly lower deposit costs.
Our bankers continued to do a great job of focusing on economically profitable loans while winning relationship with our calling efforts product capabilities and our balance sheet capacity.
And even with this impressive growth were still being disciplined about our risk and return profiling when we extend credit.
While fundings were again strong in the quarter were pleased to see that our pipeline looks to remain solid for the remainder of the year.
Turning to FTN Financial and our fixed income business on slide 10 net income in fixed income was $6 million in the second quarter.
Our average daily revenues were $729 000 compared to $877 000 in the first.
Our second quarter ADR reflected generally lower flows across the various desks though on a year-over-year basis all desks have seen increases.
Our expenses decreased 6% linked quarter reflecting lower variable compensation and for the first half of the year in aggregate our fixed income product average daily revenue was about $800 000 and we are currently expecting that the second half of the year would be in a similar range.
Turning to the overall balance sheet margin trends on slide 11 linked quarter you will see net interest income was up 6% due to the increase in commercial loans higher loan fees and cash basis income as well as more days in the quarter.
Factors were somewhat offset by a decline in commercial loan yields and our net interest margin was 292 up 18 basis points from the first quarter.
As you can see most of the increase was driven by lower level of excess cash as we were able to deploy most of our excess liquidity into loan growth.
We feel good about the strength of our balance sheet and believe we are well-positioned for an eventual rate raise.
Benefit of our asset sensitivity will depend on the timing and nature of that rate rise.
We've previously given our rate sensitivity analysis in 100 and 200 basis point increases that weve now added for your convenience and information on the more likely scenarios of a gradual rate rise.
25 basis point increase you will see net interest income go up roughly 3% and a 50 basis point rise about 4%.
Our beta assumptions for deposits remain generally the same as we've discussed previously.
Turning to slide 12 we continue focus on efficiency efforts to optimize our expense base over the next 18 to 24 months.
We continue to streamline processes and manage our core real estate.
In the second quarter we sold the building associated with our nonstrategic business and we've reduced square footage per FTE by about 24% from last year to this year.
We continue to right-size our branch network with fewer financial centers with minimal customer attrition.
As we've discussed we will continue to find efficiencies in appropriate areas but we are also investing for growth in digital capabilities in our growth markets and then our talent.
In the second quarter we continue to make strategic hires particularly in Nashville and Houston and we enhanced our compensation plan for some top producers.
Turning to asset quality on slide 13 linked quarter credit trends remained stable.
Net charge-offs were essentially flat and loan loss reserve decreased modestly.
The nonstrategic segment had a provision credit of $15 million reflecting favorable delinquency trends and continued run-off of balances.
We actually saw net recoveries of $1.3 million in nonstrategic in the quarter.
Linked quarter average loans in the nonstrategic portfolio declined 5% it was down 18% year-over-year and represent just less than 14% of our overall loan book now.
Positive economic trends such as lower unemployment and a rebound in housing has continued to help performance in the home equity portfolio as has our proactive outreach to customers entering the repayment phase.
Wrapping up on slides 14 and 15 we are making progress towards bonefish targets as the moment of core businesses improves with strong loan growth in the bank and steady performance from our fixed income business.
At the same time our nonstrategic portfolio continues to wind-down as expected.
Our bonefish building blocks on slide 16 show our path to our long-term goals.
Second quarter's return on tangible common equity was at 10.4.
When we started discussing this building block slide our ROTCE was about 8% so we've already seen some good improvement here.
Though we have significant upside to rising rates hope is not our strategy for improving our returns.
We have plenty of controllable opportunities to improve our profitability.
We continue to find efficiencies in non-core areas.
We're clearly taking advantage of profitable growth opportunities in our specialty businesses and higher growth markets and are focused on economic profit it's having a big impact.
In fact our economic profit in the regional bank is up nearly 30% since 2013 driven by a much better and more granular understanding of the profitability of our business lines products and customers down through the organization and related enhancements to reporting and incentive plans aligned with our economic profit objectives.
We think that our focus here will continue to provide meaningful business performance advantages over the time.
With that I'll turn it back over to Bryan.
Thank you BJ.
It's still an extraordinarily competitive environment out there and folks are working out hard to win every deal that we have the opportunity to win.
And as BJ said were doing with a strong focus on improvement in our returns in the business end and the dedication to balancing the risk that we take with the return that we generate for our shareholders and positioning the franchise for long-term improved returns and shareholder stock price performance.
Im pleased with what our team is doing.
Our fixed income business has been steady.
We see very good momentum in our pipelines and growth in the banking business.
Were maintaining credit quality; were focused on in controlling our expenses and improving results.
And were looking forward to a solid second half of the year.
Thank you to all of the first horizon folks that are serving customers every day.
And with that operator well now open it up for any questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jefferson Harralson at KBW.
Hi thanks good morning.
Good morning Jeff.
I was going to ask about now with the FHA had case settled should we see significant increase in expenses in the third quarter or how should we think about the expense savings from that settlement? Hey Jefferson good morning its BJ.
Legal costs first half of last year to this I think are down over 25%.
So youve seen a little of it but as you might imagine when bills come in and such it can be a little lumpy quarter-to-quarter and we saw little bit of an uptick this quarter from the settlement in related bills for that.
So I think you should expect and continue to expect that legal costs will continue to come down from here as we clean up the bills from them.
All right and my follow-up is it looks like from your releases that youre equally as asset sensitive as were before but you also had a lot of loan growth can you just -- outside the new disclosure can you talk about the -- how your asset sensitivity changed quarter-to-quarter? Yeah there wasnt a ton of asset sensitivity change Id say in the quarter.
There is not much difference that we are doing to manage the asset sensitivity.
We havent shifted our focus really much at all in terms of fixed versus floating loans or using swaps or building the securities portfolio or anything like that.
So we are anticipating hopefully a start to the rise in rates later this year and so were trying to prepare for that and as you can see I think were well prepared to take advantage of it.
Jefferson this is Bryan Ill add.
I think its really important that we emphasize what DJ just described.
We are staying focused on managing our asset sensitivity like we have been in the past several years.
Were not extending the balance sheet and taking additional interest rate risk or reducing our asset sensitivity by a looking forward duration and yield as we get closer and closer to rates taking off.
Its not clear that the bid will do anything this year.
The language seems to indicate that there is a stronger or some possibility of that and so you noted the additional disclosures.
I think what DJ crafted there wasnt a very good attempt to sort of show you some of the interim steps between zero and a 200-basis point rise because I think everybodys expectation is that if rates do start to go up that those rates are going to be fairly measured and fairly gradual steps over the next several quarters to years in our likelihood.
So we just try to create some additional information that would give you some interim steps between zero and a 200 basis point mode.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning everybody.
BJ Im going to apologize at advance but I missed your commentary on the margin.
I joined the call little late.
Can you repeat that what your outlook was for the NIM in the back half? Sorry could you ask that again Steve? Apologize.
Could you repeat what the margin outlook was for the second half? Sure yeah I dont think I necessarily talked about it when I was going through the numbers but clearly we had a strong quarter on the margin.
Weve put a significant amount of the excess balances towards [technical difficulty] think I am coming back into NII as well as the volumes.
So we had a lot of things hitting on all cylinders this quarter.
Loans to mortgage companies too was certainly a big driver of the increase in loan yields from the commercial loan volume.
I think we had $1.6 billion or so of average balances for the quarter on that business.
We expect that to seasonally come back to us in the third quarter and then probably more in the fourth as we would expect.
And so thats probably three or four basis points of outperformance that we think will probably come back to us.
Depending on what we see for loan growth for rest of the year which we would expect based on our pipelines to remain pretty solid and steady we think the margin is probably more in the mid-280 range given that come back on loans to mortgage companies and a little bit of fluctuation in excess cash balances.
Thats very helpful.
Thanks BJ.
Bryan on the fixed income business given  I know its early in the quarter but we have had a good spike involved related to Greece.
Have you had many $1 million days in the cap markets business so far? And maybe just  No we havent had many $1 million days but half a month is a trend either but given that average daily revenue was up slightly in the third quarter from where it was in the second quarter.
But if you look at the second quarter second quarter started off pretty strong it tailed off towards the end as you got some of the discussions around Greece and the uncertainty there.
We are optimistic Steve that we are going to be in a range here I dont think its going to vary widely on an average daily volume or revenue over the quarter very much and where it has been the last couple of quarters.
But we think we are at a range thats probably a little bit better than we were in 2014 and as rates start to move up we think that we can continue to be pretty steady in that business particularly as you get some of this volatility and backup in the loan term rights that give those buyers an opportunity to come into the market and do some things.
So thats a long way of saying not many $1 million days but slightly better than where we were in the second quarter.
Okay got you.
And then Bryan or BJ a final question.
If we look at slide 7 that $0.07 quarterly drag coming from the corporate segment is there room to work that drag down or is that basically just what we should consider a normal run rate? I think -- its BJ.
I think whats in our corporate is on the revenue side of the securities portfolio and if you think about us go on and get into the mechanics of funds transfer pricing et cetera.
But if you look in the financial supplement there is actually negative net interest income as we manage interest rate risk and hold the segments the regional bank segment kind of harmless for that interest rate risk.
So thats a large driver.
The rest of it is more of corporate overhead type expenses infrastructure expenses institutional type expenses and on those things absolutely we continue to work those down.
Those are things that are not as core to producing revenue and profit and so thats an area that we continue to look for efficiency in.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon at Jefferies.
Good morning Emlen.
Hey good morning guys.
How are you? Good.
I wanted to hit on the commercial  go a little deep on the commercial loan yields those are up nicely on the quarter 10 basis points.
It sounds like maybe a portion of that is related to the mortgage warehouse growth on average.
Will just be curious if there is place out youre finding better yields and then just also how much was related to loan fees this quarter? Yeah.
So I think our loan to mortgage company business is clearly our highest yielding business.
It usually averages anywhere from 4.25 let's say up to 4.50 in average loan yields.
So when we have seasonal upticks like we saw here it has a disproportionate impact.
So were pleased with that.
Core C&amp;I is pretty tight.
If youve got a solid credit you're going to have a lot of pricing and underwriting competition as we've talked about previously.
So there is not a ton of room there where we do think that we have a competitive advantage and why we focus on it is some of our specialty businesses.
We think we get pretty good pricing in our asset-based lending business.
We think that we get pretty good pricing in pockets of our commercial real estate business.
We get pretty good pricing in parts of our correspondent lending business.
So those are places where we look for niches where the risk-adjusted returns on making loans there are favorable to us.
So Susan would you add anything? Yes.
This is Susan Emlen.
I would echo what BJ said.
We are still seeing some -- lot of competition on pricing but our bankers remain very disciplined and were seeing the credit quality associated with the new business that were bringing in and very good average grades are improving continue to improve so the risk-adjusted return we still believe its very solid.
Emlen this is Bryan.
I'll pick up on as well.
We do a lot of work as you just conclude focusing on rigorous pricing models and as Susan referenced probability of the default things of that nature.
And we also try to gather as much market data as we can from third-party sources and compare what we're doing vis-a-vis our larger competitors in the marketplace as best we can.
And we recognize thats a rearview mirror view of the world because its historical three six two three six months old.
But we think were doing a pretty good job on pricing and balancing risks and as BJ alluded in his comments earlier were seeing improving returns in our lending businesses by the focus that our bankers are putting on it.
The other point that I would make and you highlighted the impact of mortgage warehouse financing and the impact on the margin that that has and net interest income based on the yields on that portfolio.
That's a business that we recognize has more inherent volatility and outstandings is driven refinance activity and purchase activity which has seasonal nature to it as well as interest rate nature to it and so we recognize that there are going to be ups and there are going to be downs and were in a period where we've had a couple of very good quarters but we like the business a lot were willing to accept a little bit ups and downs because we think it has very attractive profitability and return dynamics to it.
We've got a great group of bankers who do a good job growing in that business and so as you said that had some positive impact on loan yields this quarter it can be in the next quarter because it's down a little bit it brings the average down but on the whole I think our bankers are doing a really good job of trying to manage the returns and the business with the competitive nature of what's going on in the marketplace and balancing risk and returns.
Overall we're very pleased with what we see.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then I noticed you guys released 15 million of reserves on the non-strategic book.
Was there a particular portfolio that drove that? I'm guessing consumer real estate being the largest component its probably the bulk of it but is there a particular portfolio that drove the majority of the release and just kind of what you are seeing differently about credit performance there or reserve needs that are allowing you to get a little bit more aggressive releasing reserves? Emlen it's Susan.
Yes we've seen improved performance in the home equity book and non-strategic even those entering repayments weve continued to see lot of work delinquency and lower charge-offs in that portfolio.
We've also had a run-off -- continued run-off in home equity portfolio.
With improving home prices and stable economy we were able to release those reserves in the non-strategic book.
Susan if I remember the numbers right I think we actually had a small net recovery in the non-strategic consumer real estate as far as I remember.
We did.
And is there an opportunity I guess for additional credit leverage there as we think out over the next year or so? I think there could be if we continue to see the run-off that we've seen which is as you look we've had a really good run-off the last four to six quarters and we expect that to continue and we've again seen several quarters where both charge-off and delinquency on home equity entering repayment has come down.
Yes as BJ pointed out earlier we're down about 18% year-over-year our credit quality and FICO scores continue to look good performances has been good and we still have pretty healthy reserves allocated against that portfolio.
So as we've seen more of this progression from the revolving period to the amortization phase and get more comfortable there is an opportunity for better leverage there credit there.
Our next question comes from Ebrahim Poonawala at Merrill Lynch.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
BJ just had a follow-up question on expenses I heard you on the legal expense that should go down but outside of that means you guys are obviously making a lot of investments from tech and new markets.
How should we be thinking about the expense run rate relative to the sort of the $280 million number in the second quarter? I think I mentioned in some of my opening comments that there were several various items in there some of which were timing that kind of hit in the quarter I still feel very good about our expense discipline across the Company I still feel good about over the next 12 to 24 months taking expenses out -- net expenses out of the organization.
But I think probably a good run rate for the second half of the year is probably in the $215 million range for the quarter something like that is what I would expect and that depends on how strong fixed income revenues would be.
That's helpful.
And secondly I guess Bryan if you can just sort of remind us about capital deployment priorities obviously the stocks had a good run year-to-date and I'm just wondering as you sort of look out both from organic and inorganic standpoint do you see potential now that with the legal sort of hot settlement behind you in terms of looking being more active on the M&amp;A front and being able to pick up a whole bank deal in some of the newer markets that you have gone into.
Yeah yeah capital deployment is still one of our primary focuses we're focused on returns that's one of the key levers to that and so we do focus a lot on it.
Given that we're still in the process of completing the merger with TrustAtlantic and our inability to buy back stock during the period from  mainly [ph] of the proxy essentially to the closing we've had capital buildup just ever so slightly.
Some of that has been offset by what would be our number one priority which we continue to fund profitable organic growth in our existing franchise and continue to build out our markets here in Tennessee in Mid-Atlantic and the beginnings of growth were we're starting to see in Houston.
So we want to invest organically we will continue to opportunistically use the repurchase program once we get the TrustAtlantic merger completed to use that program to continue to redeploy capital by putting it back in shareholders' hands where we cant [ph] probably use it in the business.
And we will continue to look for opportunities to grow by building down our franchise over the course of the last year in fact and it has some impact on your earlier question about expenses we acquired the 13 branches from Bank of America TrustAtlantic will have some impact on expenses as well so we pulled off a too small but very targeted fill-in acquisitions in markets that we think are important and we'll continue to look for that.
We do think that smartly priced and well executed M&amp;A is still a great way for us to put capital to work in the organization and do it in a way that allows us to leverage our expense base and does it in a way that allows us to build our franchise for long-term profitability.
And then the last point I would make is we like everybody else in less than $10 billion to $50 billion range less than $50 billion have sort of completed the DFAST process in the first public cycle and made those disclosures.
And in our stress testing you see the results of us running the scenarios in particular the adverse scenario and we continue to believe that we have a significant amount of capital that can be redeployed in any of these vehicles and that over the long term that we opted to work towards sort of 8% to 9% what we call a common equity tier 1 now.
The ratios are changing names too fast for me but and sort of in that 8% to 9% ratio where we are 10.4% today.
So that's a -- I think we have all the leverage available to us.
We think they are all important and we continue to evaluate them all at various points in time.
It's definitely based on the opportunities that are in front of us.
That is very helpful and comprehensive.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Jennifer Demba at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just curious about the geographic dispersion of your loan growth this this quarter? Hi Jennifer it's Bryan.
It was fairly broad based.
There is a little graphic in there that sort of shares we had very good growth in markets like Nashville and Chattanooga.
We had more modest but very solid growth in western kind of say Memphis essentially.
Mid-Atlantic would continue to be very very steady.
And we are starting to get what we think is very good traction on very good opportunities in the Houston marketplace.
So we see it being very broad based but clearly the big driver in the specialty lines of business would have been the growth that we saw on our mortgage warehouse lending.
Susan anything you think that I left out? No I think Bryan covered it well.
We are seeing growth in the markets that we are targeting to grow Nashville Mid-Atlantic and Chattanooga had some real business expansion that we are capitalizing on and then the mortgage warehouse lending business the commercial real estate business and asset-based lending business continue to be strong for us.
What's your stance on lending in the Texas market right now? Do you have any uncertainty on what oil prices do to the economy there and do you want an energy team there at some point? Jennifer we are being very cautious and the bankers that we've hired there are long term Houston Texas bankers whove been through cycles like this before.
They are also being very prudent and cautious in terms of the types of lending we are doing size exposures that we are taking.
We do believe there is an opportunity for us to be in the energy sector.
We've got a very small portfolio right now in energy.
With the price correction that's occurred we actually think it's a good term to be getting into the right borrowers to be getting into that business but we are proceeding cautiously.
Jennifer this is Bryan.
I want to echo Susan's comment.
One we've got a very experienced team of energy bankers and two they have our mindset and they are cautious in what they do.
And the third point is that in some ways this energy lending is a little bit like consumer real estate commercial real estate lending in 2008-2009.
If you are not overexposed to it they are good opportunities in the marketplace to do what Susan said which is to work with very well managed organizations and do very thoughtful and very well structured and collateralized deals and such.
We think it's an opportunity going in with very limited previous exposure in this space and a great team to be opportunistic and build a business in a smart way that may be an opportunistic time.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons at Hovde Group.
Hovde good morning  Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Bryan.
Most of my questions have been asked already but just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Should we look at the provision? I mean it looks on one hand on the core portfolio was much higher than it is normally this quarter but on the non-strategic portfolio it was -- you got big credit coming in so kind of was convenient that the two offset.
But looking out going forward I wouldn't expect that kind of a magnitude on either of those ends.
Should we be looking at the last few quarters as a guide to what you guys must be providing going forward? Kevin Ill take that question.
Were very comfortable with our reserves.
We look at reserve adequacy reserve models every quarter.
We got a very rigorous process.
Our asset quality remains excellent.
We did as we described we did have one fraud loss in our C&amp;R book in the regional bank that caused a portion of that increase in the provision in the regional bank along with loan growth which was a good reason and then also lengthening of the loss emergence period.
But Im very very pleased with the quality of loans that we have on our books and then we continue to put on our books and excellently our bankers monitor and service those loans after their book.
So I believe that our reserve levels are very good and at this point wed not expect to see a lot of volatility.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up on that same topic so the big credit taken on the non-strategic portfolio this quarter was primarily I would assume on the HELOC portfolio and you guys mentioned how housing prices have improved and economies getting better but at the same time were coming up toward rising rates.
Was that a matter of debate at all or how that factors in the model but how are those HELOC loans going to perform? Theyre performing well now but how theyre going to perform if all of a sudden we wake up and were seeing rates ratchet higher for those borrowers.
Thanks.
Kevin as it relates to the non-strategic what we do analysis on interest rate shocks just like we do analysis on shocks as a borrower is exiting the draw period and entering repayments and actually the initial shock of the borrower exiting draw and entering repayment is the biggest shock that theyll have is about 250% shock from a minimum payment to going into repayment.
But if weve not -- if weve done interest rate shocks with 200 basis point moves and it really does -- it is not a big factor in terms of our loss modeling.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Thanks Kevin.
Our next question is from Geoffrey Elliott of Autonomous Research.
Hello can you hear me? Yeah good morning.
I got a quick question on TrustAtlantic it seems as if thats taking a little bit longer to close the new originally expected.
Can you discuss why thats taking a bit longer? Yeah this is Bryan.
I guess were nine months or so since we announced it in our quiet end.
The process that were working through is trying to gain the final regulatory approvals.
We have the shareholder vote.
The process takes a little bit longer and the regulatory process and the advantage you have letters -- the common letters written from a CRA perspective so it would take a little time to clear those up.
We expect that well get that wrapped up here in the third quarter and be in a position to consummate the deal sometime between now and the end of the third quarter.
And does the slightly lengthier timeline kind of influence the way you think about further M&amp;A in the future? It does have.
Yes it does have some influence and it adds a degree of uncertainty because the timing is not fixed.
In an ideal world when you announced an M&amp;A transaction you would know exactly that it can take you x months to get through the shareholder and regulatory approval process and you plan your conversion and start customer communication.
So it does introduce a degree of uncertainty.
Well have a better sense when we see the ultimate time and how to think about future opportunities and what that means in terms of how we model and how we -- and how we think about conversion timelines and customer communication.
But if there is added degree of additional uncertainty that from a preference standpoint it wont be there it would be much more defined timeline that you can manage within and execute and communicate with customers and shareholders and do it all in a way that allows the regulatory of process and their objectives to be achieved and do it in a way that allows you to facilitate M&amp;A in most efficient manner for shareholders of both organizations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Christopher Marinac at FIG Partners.
Thanks good morning.
Susan and BJ alluded to some of the commercial activity in prior questions.
But I just was curious on the commercial loan yield increasing this quarter is that something that we may see occur again in the next couple of quarters? Hey its BJ.
I think thats hard in todays environment.
I think a lot of the increase in the commercial loan yield you saw this quarter was our higher yielding loans to mortgage company business.
So like I think many of us have said before pricing is pretty tight.
So generally speaking we are putting loans on the books at close to what its coming off so weve been able to in aggregate keep our loan yields pretty steady but it would be a tall order to try to expand yields at this point.
Okay.
And BJ would that shift at all if we do see one or two Fed rate moves in future quarters? Yeah absolutely thats where we would see improved sensitivity capture  The benefits of it.
The benefits of it sure.
Okay fantastic.
Thanks very much for the color.
Our next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom at Guggenheim Securities.
Hi thanks.
Couple of quick questions here.
BJ you have been very clear about the NIM dynamic but I just want to understand given where some of the excess NIM in the period came from.
How should we consider sort of the base rate of NII dollars should it be running around that 160 to 161 level that we have seen prior to now? Yeah good question.
I think it can be a little bit higher than that.
Again its going to fluctuate a little bit based on what we see with loans to mortgage companies but I would expect it to be hopefully north of 160 and closer to the mid-160s than the lower side.
Great.
And just to circle back on the trading revenues for a moment I mean the one area of strength that I think we saw in the period from some of the larger broker dealers was in the rate product which is where youre concentrated for many of them now is actually up sequentially.
So I am just curious what you saw that you were down a bit? BJ might have more detail Eric.
We just  what we saw because we dont have any real  we are not taking a proprietary position we are just matching up buyers and sellers.
We saw volume tail off a little bit in the quarter.
At this point I am not having time to study any of what competitors have done and so I dont have anything useful to add in that regard.
Eric I think generally speaking what we are seeing is -- thank buyers are staying very short and what they buy is typically a product from us that has tighter spreads and if you look across any of the desks with trace and the transparency across the markets spreads continue to tighten on what we make for each bond that we cross.
And so as buyers are getting shorter we are seeing the less of the revenue from that.
So we want to serve customers the way they want or stay in short and make sense to them but we certainly see it in terms of how our revenue share [ph] is up.
Great its very helpful.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerbe at Morgan Stanley.
Great thank you.
Good morning.
I guess if we look at the loan growth obviously mortgage was a huge positive this quarter.
But if we back out  I think it was a $600 million increase in average mortgage warehouse loans.
Total loan growth I mean ballpark around 0.5% growth.
When you look out over the next several quarters into 2016 is there anything that meaningfully changes that just given the run-off portfolio versus the growth in the regional bank ex-mortgage of course.
No I think like I talked about before we have been very pleased with the replenishment of the pipeline as we have seen strong fundings and thats not just in loans to mortgage companies thats been fairly broad-based and so again we saw pretty strong fundings and the pipelines remain steady.
So we think we can see good solid growth in the aggregate portfolio not just alone to mortgage company for the rest of the year.
So were pleased with what were seeing.
I think comps get a little tougher the longer you go because weve had such outsized growth double-digit growth now for three quarters at least and so it gets tough to keep that momentum but we certainly believe that loan growth is going to remain solid for the next several quarters.
Ken this is Bryan.
Depending on whether using averages or period end youre likely to get different percentages but we look at commercial loan growth in the banking franchise year-over-year ex mortgage warehouse lending.
It was up north of 10%.
So we think there has been very good momentum there and as we look at pipelines as BJ said were optimistic about the progress or the prospects for a pretty steady growth during the second half of this year.
Got it.
Understood.
I guess I was thinking more like total not just C&amp;I but understood.
Your point is taken.
So thank you very much.
Our last question is from John Pancari at Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Hi John.
Good morning.
Just have a couple of quick questions Bryan you were alluding to the profitability a little while ago about the  of the mortgage warehouse business and everything in it still very attractive business for you.
Can you update us what is the current ROE for that business for you guys? The ROE on that business is going to be right now in the 35% 40% range.
In 11 12 but even when you have loan balances like were certain to have about half of what they are today the business still returns us about 20% on a risk-adjusted return basis.
So very efficient business large average loan sizes negligible losses high yields.
So as Bryan said were very willing to put up with the variability of that when we see the profitability coming out of that.
Because there is a lot of  excuse me BJ because there is a lot of expense leverage in the business it's going to ebb and flow depending on what volumes do and that's one of the reasons we like it it's got very good attractive returns its got low volumes and they get really good in periods where average warehouse line size goes up significantly because it then requires to put any additional costs into the business -- very minimal additional cost in to the business.
Its got very attractive returns and that's one of the reasons were willing to accept some of the volatility that it creates.
Okay alright.
And then secondly on the HELOC non-strategic book what percentage of your 05 and 06 vintages of HELOCs have been refined or paid down or reworked in some fashion to address that expiration of the withdrawal period? We've had a number of them but wed have to get back to you on the specifics John on that particular vintage.
That's where a lot of the CPR is coming from but essentially you may remember from previous discussions on it this portfolio that we have in non-strategic had the following basic characteristics intended to be a lower yielding portfolio it was probably modest typically speaking and it had very high credit quality scores and what we did in the business pre-2007 is when we originated we would securitize ourselves the higher spread product we kept what was a greater credit quality stuff.
Because of the yields on it it didn't have a propensity to prepay early because it was hard to match that rate in the marketplace somewhere.
So as you gotten to the period of amortization or repayments that's when you start to see prepayments start to accelerate.
So a lot of the run-off that we've seen over the last couple of years is those borrowers either have a transaction on their home or they get to the point where they get into the amortization phase and we see a pickup.
And with the low interest rates available for permanent refinance weve seen a number of borrowers to use that option as theyre entering or about to enter repayment.
Okay.
Alright.
Thats it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time Id like to turn the conference back over to Bryan Jordan for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
We appreciate your interest in the company.
As weve said a number of different times we continue to be very focused on the long term objectives that weve laid out and the bonefish targets.
We continue to stay focused on that and what is sort of an entertaining competitive operating environment.
We continue to see good progress in the business and look forward to the second half of this year.
If you have requests for additional information please dont hesitate to contact any of us or let Aarti know and we will be happy to try to get you that information.
Thank you again all our folks and thank you all for joining us.
Hope you all have a great weekend.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the First Horizon National Corp.
Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to Aarti Bowman.
Please go ahead.
Thank you to Amy.
Please note that the press release and financial supplement which announced our earnings as well as the slide presentation we'll use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from those forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for this call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This morning's speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan; and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I'll now turn it over to Bryan.
Thank you Aarti.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
I'm very pleased with our third quarter accomplishments.
Our loan portfolio growth was the best in some time showing that given our customer focus we can generate high-quality incremental business in a competitive environment.
We kept co-operating costs in check yet didn't scale back on investment spending.
We accelerated the rundown of our Non-Strategic portfolio selling a block of held-for-sale mortgage loans at a significant profit.
The second sale of this year.
Last but not least we returned capital to shareholders repurchasing 2 million shares of stock at an attractive price.
Our core business posted solid performance.
Year-over-year the Regional Bank's average loans were up 6%.
Linked quarter growth was 4%.
Growth was driven by specialty lending areas and our expansion markets.
Year-over-year Commercial Real Estate loans rose 31% to $1.2 billion or 7% of the total portfolio.
Asset-Based Lending increased 13%.
Commercial and Private Client/Wealth Management portfolios were each up 9%.
And within our markets Mid-Atlantic booked 29% loan growth while Middle Tennessee grew 10% year-over-year.
Average core deposits were up 1% year-over-year in the bank and net checking accounts grew by 3%.
Our active calling program's emphasis on customer service and investment in additional talent and products are enabling us to grow our portfolios yet maintain our risk-adjusted pricing and our underwriting discipline.
Our other core business FTN Financial performed well even though market conditions laid on fixed income activity.
As anticipated average daily fixed income revenues were flat to last quarter and are likely to remain so in the near term.
Meanwhile we're building out our municipal products platform and developing our public finance capability.
When the fixed income market conditions improve we'll be prepared to take advantage of opportunities that FTN's extensive unique distribution platform provides.
We made good progress at winding down the Non-Strategic portfolio with average loans declining 17% from last year.
We also made a significant addition to our litigation reserve.
We sold Non-Strategic loans in our held-for-sale portfolio for a pretax gain of about $40 million.
Recall in the second quarter we had an $8 million gain on a valuation adjustment related to a Non-Strategic loan sale.
Year-to-date we've booked nearly $50 million in gains related to loan sales.
We will continue to actively look for economically attractive opportunities to accelerate the runoff of our Non-Strategic portfolios.
Asset quality trends were stable.
Year-over-year net charge-offs declined 32% and nonperforming assets were down 36%.
Our reserve-to-loans ratio was at 151 basis points in the third quarter.
As most of you are aware we're very focused on achieving our bonefish targets.
While a rate rise is the biggest driver of hitting our targets we're controlling what we can control for now.
That includes cutting cost managing economic profitability to better capitalize on growth opportunities and effectively deploying our capital.
Consolidated expenses decreased 8% year-over-year excluding the net loss related to the legal matters and mortgage repurchase effects.
We believe we have more work to do on becoming more efficient.
We plan on cutting an additional $20 million to $50 million in annual expenses over the next few years through further resolution of legacy issues process improvement branch network optimization and other efficiencies.
At the same time we will continue to make appropriate investments that will offset some of our efficiencies.
Our economic profit efforts will also be a factor in achieving our bonefish targets.
We're continuing to expand and enhance our economic profitability management tools which are helping us to successfully execute our business plans and reach our bonefish targets.
Our capital position remains strong with Tier 1 common at 11.3%.
In the third quarter we bought back 2 million common shares for $24 million and have $76 million of repurchases remaining in our current authorization.
Since we started our initial buyback program in 2011 we have bought back about 11% of outstanding shares at a $9.42 volume-weighted average price.
We will continue to deploy capital smartly.
I'll now turn the call over to BJ for more financial details about the quarter and then I'll be back for some closing comments.
BJ? Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody thanks for joining us.
I'll start on Slide 7.
In the third quarter net income available to common shareholders was $45 million or $0.19 a share.
I'm pleased with the core performance we saw in the quarter like Bryan is.
Overall earnings were impacted by a few notable items as well which I'll discuss on the next slide.
So if you turn to Slide 8 in the third quarter we continued our efforts to wind down our Non-Strategic portfolio with loan sales.
We finalized the sale of about $315 million of UPB held-for-sale loans and booked approximately $40 million of pretax gain on those sales which will show up in the mortgage banking income line.
As Bryan mentioned our year-to-date loan sales out of the Non-Strategic portfolio have resulted in pretax gains totaling almost $50 million (sic) [$40 million].
We have been able to manage down this portfolio to our advantage and we'll continue to look for opportunities to accelerate the wind down of the Non-Strategic portfolio in an appropriate fashion.
We also had a $50 million pretax expense related to legal matters reflected in the addition to the litigation reserve.
And additionally we booked a $15 million pretax gains related to insurance recoveries associated with the previous legal settlement.
These 2 items had a $35 million net negative impact in our litigation and regulatory matters line in other expense.
Segment highlights are on Slide 9 and I'll go over the details of the Regional Banking Capital Markets businesses on the next few slides.
So if you turn to Slide 10 taking a look at the Regional Bank.
Our Regional Bank showed particularly strong performance contributing $51 million in net income in the third quarter up 9% from the second.
Linked quarter our net interest income in the bank was up 3% driven largely by higher loan balances.
Noninterest income declined 3% linked quarter but recall that 2Q '14 included a positive $3 million impact related to some VISA incentives.
Deposit transaction fees were up 2%.
Brokerage and trust fees were down from second quarter seasonally higher levels.
Expenses were up 2% due to technology investments and an increase in professional fees.
Loan loss provision was $2 million in 3Q '14 compared to $8 million in the second.
Annualized charge-offs in the bank are at 19 basis points very strong.
Pretax income again was up 9% linked quarter.
Turning to Regional Bank balance sheet trends on Slide 11.
Linked quarter our average loan growth was 4% for the second consecutive quarter.
Our focus on specialty lending areas expansion markets and our bankers' calling efforts continue to pay off.
Average Commercial Real Estate loans were up 9% linked quarter driven by customers funding up existing commitments opportunities in the REIT sector and growth in our Mid-Atlantic Middle Tennessee and Southeast markets.
Loans to mortgage companies one of our most economically profitable businesses increased nearly 30% linked quarter due to the strong home purchasing we saw in the summer season.
Private Client and Wealth Management loans grew 4% linked quarter and growth areas in our markets included Mid-Atlantic which was up 16% link.
And Middle Tennessee where loans increased 3%.
We're booking loans appropriately and largely within our risk-adjusted return on capital guidelines by staying disciplined on pricing and underwriting while borrowers' sentiment has improved somewhat customers do remain cautious and we're still facing tough competition for loans.
While we generally see a seasonal slowdown in loan bookings in the fourth quarter our pipelines remain very solid.
Moving to capital markets on Slide 12.
Pretax income was $5 million in the business in 3Q compared to 2Q '14 pretax income of $50 million which included a $47 million expense recovery.
Linked quarter fixed income average daily revenues remains relatively steady with the second quarter at $644 000 reflecting continued muted customer activity due to tough market conditions from low rates and low volatility.
The FTN fixed income business continues to be a strong source of fee income for us and we see latent opportunity for improved profitability and contribution to achieving our bonefish targets as market conditions improve.
The platform is a highly variable one from an expense and capacity perspective.
And we continue to be prepared to take advantage of improved markets once they materialize.
Turning to Slide 13 the consolidated balance sheet margin trends.
Average total assets remained stable at $24 billion.
Linked quarter our consolidated net interest margin was flat at 2.97%.
Higher loan balances and lower deposit costs offset the pressure on loan yields.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect our consolidated margin to be more towards the 2.90% level plus or minus a few basis points.
Much of the reason for this anticipated 4Q decline in the margin is a high-class problem to have deposit inflows.
Our margin assumptions are based on an anticipated seasonal end of year increase in deposit inflows and the closing of our branch acquisition of 13 branches across Tennessee from BofA which funded today.
Subsequently we expect to hold higher levels of cash at the Fed in the fourth quarter which will impact the margin.
And in addition the loan sales and seasonally lower loans to mortgage companies will impact the NIM as well.
Fundamentally however our NIM remained solid in a challenging interest rate environment.
Our balance sheet remains highly asset sensitive.
In a 200 basis point rise scenario our net interest income would increase roughly 10%.
And on the liability side we expect overall deposit Betas of about 40% to 45% in an up 200 basis point scenario.
Moving to expenses on Slide 14.
Since 3Q '11 our run rate of consolidated annualized expense excluding litigation accruals and recoveries and the GSE repurchase provisions has declined 20%.
Compared to peers who have seen an uptick in expense we've decreased our cost base significantly.
We've lowered cost by reducing our branches streamlining our structure and processes and winding down our Non-Strategic portfolio.
At the same time we've continued to invest in technology products and people to help us take advantage of growth opportunities improve our processes to leverage our infrastructure and serve our customers more effectively and efficiently.
We will continue working to reduce our expense base by further improving process decreasing legacy-related costs and reducing our corporate real estate footprint.
Turning to asset quality overview on Slide 15.
Our charge-offs were down as we've seen continued stable performance and positive grade migration.
We also had a $3.4 million commercial recovery in the third quarter.
Linked quarter you see our nonperforming assets decrease 24% to $257 million and commercial nonperforming loans were down 11%.
We sold about $60 million of nonperforming loans in the third quarter.
Our loan loss reserve decreased 2% as well.
Wrapping up on Slides 16 and 17.
Slide 16 shows our current progress towards bonefish targets.
And on Slide 17 you can see that we've put ranges on the opportunities that we see at an incremental profitability.
We see a lot of growth economic profit opportunity and upside to our business.
We're managing the entire organization to our bonefish goals.
And we believe the continued efficiencies growth opportunities with new markets and products economic profit improvement capital deployment increased capital markets activity and a rise in interest rates will get us to our long-term return targets from 15% to 20%.
With that I'll turn it back over to Bryan.
Thank you BJ.
We will continue to work diligently in a disciplined manner to achieve these key priorities: further strengthening our balance sheet enhancing productivity and efficiency and winding down our Non-Strategic businesses.
With our focus on improving economic profit I'm very confident that we will make progress towards the reaching our bonefish targets and further building franchise over the foreseeable future.
Thank you to our First Horizon employees for all that you do to build our business and serve our customers every day.
And with that Amy we'll now stop and take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to start could you guys give some color on the nature of the $50 million add to litigation reserve in the quarter? This is Bryan.
Unfortunately we can't go into a whole lot of detail.
It's very clear that we set up $50 million in these legal reserves.
We have a number of things that are active and in progress.
And because they are it wouldn't be appropriate for us to go into details regarding them.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Bryan given the recent increase in market volatility have you guys seen any pickup in ADR so for in the quarter? I know you said the outlook is flat for the quarter.
But wondering why you're not expecting a bit of an increase given what we're seeing just in the markets? Well it has been very -- it's been stable with this volatility and rates going down actually is somewhat negative and as they come back up you see a little bit of a benefit.
There's really been more selling than there has been buying in this environment.
If you go back and you look at the third quarter as a whole we were very encouraged.
There were a couple weeks in the early part of September where average daily volumes were very very strong.
The volatility is driving -- volatility and average daily volumes as you'd expect.
But given what we think is happening in interest rate markets for the next several quarters we think it's likely to be in this area.
And so we're not optimistic that we'll see a significant increase.
We're always hopeful that we'll get it but we don't believe at this point that it's likely to occur in the third -- fourth quarter or the early part of 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a final question from a high level if we look at the Regional Bank pretax pre-provision income is basically flat year-over-year.
Capital markets are below the low end of the range.
I know you stepped up buybacks in the quarter your focus on expenses.
But are there any other initiatives you're contemplating to move the needle a bit more at least over the intermediate term? Yes.
This is Bryan.
The -- I've said in my closing comments I'm very very confident in our ability to enhance value and improve profitability with the balance sheet that we have today and the opportunities that are in front of us.
We've talked a lot and you'll recall even in our Investor Day last fall we were talking about how we were disaggregating the organization and understanding the drivers of profitability and we continue to do a lot of work.
And as we look into the last part of this year and into the next couple of years we still see a tremendous amount of opportunity for us to capitalize on opportunities in our marketplace to do a better job of winning business and getting more efficient in the way that we do it both on a revenue and an expense side of the business.
So we're very very optimistic that in sort of continued sideways interest rate environment for the next several quarters there is still opportunity for us to improve our profitability just focusing on these opportunities we have in the existing balance sheet.
The next question comes from Ebrahim Poonawala for Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So I guess Bryan first question just in terms of Capital Markets the investments we've been making on the muni and public finance side.
Do you need a pickup in ADR for those investments to start paying off? Or is that somewhat independent with some of those bankers who've been on board now start generating revenue in business even in the absence of major pickup in ADR? Yes.
Those are investments that one should have some short-term impact.
And clearly the extent that we grow that platform and we grow our ability to participate in deals in the bigger markets and as well as bring people onto the platform that will help ADR.
But we also look at those as long-term investments that will allow us to build out the product set.
And over the long term have a more positive impact on ADR by broadening the product suite.
And broadening the product offering we can bring to our customer base as well as to the issuer community.
So we see it having some modest short-term impact but long-term we see it as a big investment for the future of the business and the product set.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then the second question and BJ you talked about looking for strategies to sort of expedite the sort of wind down of the Non-Strategic portfolio.
I guess when you look out there what is the biggest impediment in terms of being able to sort of sell larger chunks over the next few quarters? Is it just buyer appetite or the cost of funding for the buyer which is still sort of making the economics not that attractive for a buyer relative to you -- given the banks funding base? Sure.
No I think given what we've seen the last 2 quarters with the 2 loan sales that we did make out of the portfolio that the buyer appetite is pretty strong.
On both of those sales we had dozens literally dozens of bidders on each and the bids were obviously very strong.
So we are pretty pleased with the execution there and that gives us a little more confidence that maybe there's some more opportunity to sell down more of the Non-Strategic portfolio as appropriate.
Now these 2 happen to be out of the existing held-for-sale portfolios that are currently marked.
So it's a little bit more liquid if you will and easier to do.
But we continue to look for shareholder-friendly and economically profitable opportunities to manage down the Non-Strategic portfolio.
And I'm pretty optimistic that we might be able to do that.
Next question comes from Paul Miller from FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Tom LeTrent on behalf of Paul.
It was nice to see the good growth in Middle Tennessee and the Mid-Atlantic.
Can you sort of remind me how big those areas are currently? And what you want them to become over time? Sure.
Mid-Atlantic is probably about $700 million or so in deposits -- excuse me in loans outstanding.
And maybe $250 million or so in deposits.
So we've been in those markets and building out those markets over the last 10 years.
So it's a pretty meaningful book of business today.
And as you saw linked quarter growth there was pretty strong.
In terms of our Texas markets they're still in their infancy stage.
We just did those up I believe we have 4 or 5 existing employees there and they've been building out more of the infrastructure.
Now we have had really good pipelines and have closed some deals.
But those are still very very small.
But we do expect them to provide meaningful growth opportunities profitable ones over the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And one last question.
The tax rates were a jump between 23% 28% for the last 1.5 years or so.
Is 28% sort of the normalized rate that we should use for you guys? Or how should I think about that? Yes.
I would say assume 28% to 30%.
This quarter was positively impacted by some low-income housing partnerships credits that we received in the quarter.
So they should smooth out over the next quarter to year.
So I'd use 28% to 30% as appropriate.
The next question comes from Christopher Marinac at FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> BJ or Bryan I was curious on your thought about a flat or flatter yield curve and the impact of that just kind of looking at Slide 13 again.
Yes.
So it's BJ Chris.
Certainly it does not help as much as a steeper curve.
But from the banking business perspective and our assets to be on the balance sheet since a lot of our floating rate loans are tied to short rates not longer we can still get much of that asset sensitivity benefit.
Now if we're buying in the securities portfolio it's a little bit harder.
A flatter yield curve is certainly not conducive to better FTN business.
But on balance and on net for our company it's a positive if short rates rise even if the longer end of the curve is flatter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just in general will we see this figure at the 200 basis point kind of creep up further.
It seems like it has in recent quarters just as it's -- as we've looked at each -- this chart each quarter.
I'd say Chris it's actually -- I think I have to go back but it's been relatively stable in this $63 million $64 million NII impact.
A year ago it was actually around $70 million $71 million and it's come down modestly.
But it's been in this range for the last couple of quarters.
The next question comes from Kevin Fitzsimmons at Hovde Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions.
Can you comment on the outlook for the pace of buybacks.
Since specifically in relation to what happened the past year as you were approaching stress tests.
And I know there was a lot more significant questions on the legacy issues back then.
So I just -- looking to clarify is there any risk of having to dial back those buybacks as you approach the next formal stress test? Kevin this is Bryan.
I don't think -- we're going to be opportunistic and we're not locked in to any given pattern.
We as I mentioned and I think BJ reiterated we bought back $24 million this quarter and I would expect it -- that something in that range maybe a little more maybe a little less depending on what the opportunities are in the next quarter.
But in all likelihood we expect to see that buyback continue as one we optimize our capital base and two as we continue to generate strong earnings.
We expect to repatriate excess capital to our shareholder base and do it in a shareholder-friendly fashion.
So we will be opportunistic.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up on the -- your guidance on the margin.
BJ you specifically addressed this next quarter but it seems like it's a phenomenon of the deposit inflow that's coming in and a few other issues.
But looking further out beyond that if we're still in this rate environment getting into early '15.
Would you guess that the margin would return to where it was in the third quarter? Or is it going to be somewhere in between? Sure.
So if we're looking forward to 2015 I think we're going to stay in roughly this range.
I would hope between 2.85% and 2.95% that we bounced around.
And if you look on one of our slides we had in the deck we had the last several quarters of our margin.
And it's been relatively stable in that range.
So I would expect that to continue even without rate rises.
Now of course if rates do rise we believe we'll be above that.
But I think that range of 2.85% to 2.95% is appropriate to think about.
LLC Research Division</strong> But BJ is there any like real important driver that puts you either at the low end or the high end of that range? Well sure I think the same impacts that we would have in the fourth quarter are going to impact the margin going into 2015 I talked about.
We do expect pretty strong deposit inflows.
We actually got the wire this morning to close our branch acquisition so that adds excess funds that we'll have to put the work.
So those are high-class problems to have.
Those things are good.
Loans to mortgage companies are going to fluctuate and we have 4.75% yields in that business.
Any fluctuation there can have an outsized and meaningful impact on the margin so that's certainly going to be an impact.
Trading inventories in our Capital Markets business higher levels of inventory are going to cause lower margins.
It doesn't necessarily mean that it's bad business.
We're going to make the income off of that dealer inventory but it could certainly impact the margin.
So it's the same types of things that we've seen.
And again I think that that range should be what we're targeting over the next several quarters.
Kevin this is Bryan to piggyback on BJ's comments.
We don't manage to a margin number per se.
As BJ pointed out it's been very stable.
What we're really focused on is acquiring and building long-term profitable relationships.
And so if we take on more deposits that can have an impact but we see that as very value accretive.
If we book additional loans or we see fluctuations in our mortgage warehouse those are all byproducts of it.
But we're very focused on managing the overall profitability and managing it for the long-term and the margin really just sort of falls out.
So as BJ talks about the range we're not managing to a certain number in that.
We're trying to make the right decisions for the business and build a franchise for the long-term and manage that overall level of profitability.
The next question comes from Jennifer Demba SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question about the infrastructure investments that you think you are going to be needing to make in the next -- call it 2 or 3 years.
Could you just talk -- give us some more color about what you think you probably still need to do there? And specifically what may be related to cybersecurity if you can isolate that? Yes.
Jennifer this is Bryan.
The -- most of the investments that we will make will still be in customer-facing systems or close to customer facing systems.
For example our Commercial Lending platform.
For example our customer-facing mobile banking platforms things of that nature that drive treasury management products things of that nature.
We are spending marginally more money on cybersecurity.
I would say that that has been an investment that we have been ramping up over time.
We spend a lot of time focused on it.
Now we'll also continue to build out the capabilities around infrastructure in Houston the mid-Atlantic franchise and even our Middle Tennessee franchise.
But in the context of overall numbers as we've commented a couple of different ways we brought expenses down while making a lot of investments.
We expect to bring expenses down another $20 million to $50 million.
Some of that will be reinvested but we would expect our expense base to continue to decline while we make these investments.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
One more follow-up on the cybersecurity issue.
Bryan do you get the sense that First Horizon is on the front end of that rather than in the middle.
Because it sounds like just based on some of the calls we've heard so far that that seems to be in a more of an emerging area of investment.
I don't know how to characterize it vis--vis others.
So I don't really know how to answer front middle or back.
It is an issue that Bruce Livesay and our technology team have spent a lot of time on.
Steven Jones who manages that for us we spent a lot of time working through these issues.
We have made substantial investment in the infrastructure.
But as you can see from the headlines that come up that the threats are coming from a lot of different places.
And so we're always cautious that we don't know what we don't know and that we need to remain vigilant.
We stay involved in FS-ISAC and other organizations that help in the sharing of information.
We follow what's going on in the marketplace.
And then we work with our regulators and governmental agencies to stay on the front-end of what's happening in the marketplace.
So although I can't characterize it front middle or back I think we've made a substantial investment and I think we'll continue to invest there.
But I don't think it will be a huge incremental investment for us.
Our next question comes from Emlen Harmon at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I understand you guys don't want to provide too much detail on the litigation reserve.
I would just be helpful to understand if that's for some of the kind of existing issues that you guys disclosed in your filings or whether that's something new that you're putting up the reserve for? No Emlen this is Bryan.
You're right we don't want to go into the details.
But it is safe to assume that it's related to existing matters that we have disclosed in previous Qs and Ks.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one other going back to Non-Strategic asset sales.
Could you help us BJ? You noted already that the held-for-sale portfolio was obviously marked.
Would just be kind of curious in terms of differences between what was in that held-for-sale book and sold.
And kind of what's in your Non-Strategic consumer real estate book? And how those assets comp? Sure.
So what we sold out of the held-for-sale were largely loans that we had repurchased when we were doing the Fannie Freddie mortgage repurchases right? So if there was a loan to be repurchased we bought it back we marked it and then we managed it.
And so those were mostly well they were all firsts -- a mix of performing modified and reperforming and nonperforming.
So that is going to be a little bit different from what we have remaining in the Non-Strategic portfolio which consists of home equity lines of credit.
Some installment loans that are still outstanding TRUPs of which we have a portfolio.
So they are going to be a little bit different.
And certainly those are held to maturity versus these being held-for-sale hence being more liquid.
But to the extent that we can find opportunities to make economically attractive deals on those we will certainly look at that.
The next question comes from John Pancari at Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Actually Steve Moss here for John.
Circling back on to the Non-Strategic loan sales here in this quarter.
Was the marked balance around $200 million for the loans you sold this quarter? Let's see trying to do it in my head it.
Yes about $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And judging by what I see on the balance sheet there's probably about $120 million left in terms of nonstrategic loans held for sale? Yes.
There's about $150 million I believe -- $120 million of it is student loans that are government guaranteed.
So basically at par they're not going to fluctuate much on a marked basis and the other $30 million will fluctuate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more thing with regard to loan yields this quarter.
Commercial loan yield came down 8 basis points quarter-over-quarter perhaps a bit more than I would have expected given the increase in average balances for mortgage warehouse.
Just kind of wondering where you're seeing the competition and where the new money yields are coming in.
I'll be glad to take that.
This is Susan.
We are -- obviously competition is fierce for new loans.
We have seen positive grade migration both in terms of existing clients as well as new business that we're bringing on.
We're bringing on very high quality business.
And so from a risk-adjusted return often the spread on those loans obviously is lower.
But we remain disciplined in terms of the pricing and underwriting.
Steve this is Bryan.
I'm -- we've talked a lot about competition for a while and I think just reading whatever I've read over the last few days I think people are still talking about it.
It's still a very competitive environment out there.
And I continue to be extraordinarily pleased with the work that our bankers are doing day-in day-out to maintain discipline in terms of pricing to grow relationships to make strong calling efforts and to build the overall franchise value of the organization for the long term.
So it is competitive environment and it is one that you're going to see spreads be moved up or down by a number of different factors whether it's higher -- lower risk borrowers and by necessary -- by necessity lower spreads or various things of that nature.
But I am very very pleased with the work that our bankers are doing.
And it's not something I think that we've commented on before but the other thing that I'm kind of excited about is the fourth quarter tends to be a little seasonally slower in a lot of ways in terms of lending volume.
Our pipelines going into fourth quarter continue to be very strong.
So we're optimistic about the fruits of their effort as we move into the last part of this year.
Our next question comes from Kevin Barker of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you talk about your -- the HELOC bids that you're seeing out there given that remains the biggest portion of your Non-Strategic portfolio? And what other efforts you can look at in selling parts of your HELOC portfolio given there are quite a bit of payment shocks that are occurring over the next couple of years? Yes.
This is Bryan.
We haven't had any significant or any real effort to market the HELOC portfolio.
We are not emotionally attached.
So in the event that we find the right kind of opportunity we would certainly pursue it.
We've been dealing with the credit aspects of payment shock our folks going into repayment and Susan can pick up on this.
This is an aged portfolio.
We basically wrote a 5/15 or a 10/10 contract.
And I think the last loans that went into it basically were in 2007.
So we've seen and we've got a lot of experience in managing the transition from the revolving period to the payment period.
And we've had reasonably good success in terms of our proactive efforts.
So I don't -- and one last point the credit quality updated in the appendix in the supplemental slides is we updated credit quality we refreshed FICA scores and we report the trends on credit quality.
And credit quality continues to remain very high.
So it's been a good performing portfolio.
We don't see that the transition from revolving to payment to be a huge issue.
Susan? Yes I'll add to that.
We've actually seen the last 5 quarters where the annualized charge-off rate on HELOCs that have entered the repayment period come down.
So we're very pleased with that.
We believe that due to a couple of factors.
One we do have a more proactive approach that we put in place about a year ago a more proactive where we talk to borrowers via online statements messaging that they have an upcoming -- they're ending their draw period will be entering repayment.
And we now reach out to them 9 months in advance and touch them several times as they're nearing the end of draw.
So we believe that that more proactive approach is improving the charge-off rate there as families have an opportunity to adjust their budget.
The other thing and we've done a lot of analysis on the payment shock.
The average payment shock in our HELOC portfolio is about $470 when they go from draw into repayment.
And if you just look at the minimum payment compared to what the new payment would be for under -- let's say go into repayment it's about 250%.
But based on what our borrowers are paying during the draw period they're paying more than that minimum payment and that reduces that shock to about 150%.
So we do as Bryan mentioned a lot of analysis here and we're very pleased the FICA scores continue to remain very very strong.
LLC Research Division</strong> So when I compare second quarter to the third quarter the increase in delinquencies and from on the 30-day delinquency level for the HELOC portfolio would you consider that more seasonal? Or is that just a temporary blip that you're seeing not something related to the payment shocks? Yes we will see some seasonality in terms of HELOC delinquency.
And occasionally you can have some larger loans that will cause an increase and it's not representative of really a portfolio change.
At this time we show no further questions.
Would you like to make any closing comments? Yes thank you Amy.
Thank you all for joining the call this morning.
Please let Aarti or any of us know if any have any further questions.
We appreciate your interest and I hope you all have a great weekend.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the First Horizon National Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Aarti Bowman Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kate.
Please note that the earnings release financial supplement and slide presentation well use in this call this morning are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.firsthorizon.com.
In this call we will mention forward-looking and non-GAAP information.
Actual results may differ from the forward-looking information for a number of reasons outlined in our earnings announcement materials and our most recent annual and quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements reflect our views today and we are not obligated to update them.
The non-GAAP information is identified as such in our earnings announcement materials and in the slide presentation for the call and is reconciled to GAAP information in those materials.
Also please remember that this webcast on our website is the only authorized record of this call.
This mornings speakers include our CEO Bryan Jordan and our CFO BJ Losch.
Additionally our Chief Credit Officer Susan Springfield will be available with Bryan and BJ for questions.
I will now turn it over to Bryan.
Thanks Aarti.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
I am very pleased with our results in the fourth quarter and for the full year 2015.
We made good progress working on our Bonefish targets.
BJ will walk you through the details and the moving parts in a little bit.
Really good progress in our balance sheet in 2015 we saw very good loan growth across our businesses particularly in those areas that we focused on in Middle Tennessee.
Our specialized businesses our credit quality remained good and you saw that in our credit quality performance not only in the fourth quarter but for the entire year.
We have looked into 2016 and continue to see strong credit quality as we look forward at this point into 2016.
We are pleased with the closing of the TrustAtlantic acquisition which occurred in about the middle of October.
Our rate environment we saw a little bit of improvement at the end of year with the Fed raising 25 basis points.
And as we sit here today we expect that the Fed could possibly increase its rates another couple of times throughout 2016.
We remain focused on improving our productivity and our efficiency in 2015 and we continue that as we move into 2016.
We are pleased with the progress we see in controlling expenses and we think we have further opportunities to do that as we move into next year.
You have heard us talk a lot over the last several years about our Bonefish targets and the profitability tools which continue to see good progress in putting those to use day-to-day in our core businesses and particularly our banking business.
And we think we have good opportunities to continue to improve our results by focusing on the details of disaggregation of our business and our product lines.
FTN Financial finished the year with a strong result.
We had average daily revenue in the fourth quarter of $850 000 a day.
The first part of 2016 has started off with some volatility but we are pleased with the results at FTN Financial in the fourth quarter and particularly proud that they were ranked #1 in callable agency issuance in 2015.
As we turn into 2016 we think the operating environment will continue to be difficult.
It will in all likelihood pick you here look like 2013 14 15 16 will be very very similar.
We think that the economy is still reasonably steady.
We dont have any particular concerns about a return or a downturn in the economy.
I know the markets have reacted but it still feels pretty steady.
As I mentioned earlier credit quality continues to be steady and very very strong.
So we are optimistic that although 2016 will look a lot like the last several years this economy which somebody has referred to as a plow horse economy continues to move forward at a steady pace and we think we will do very well in that.
And finally we will continue our focus in 2016 focusing on our Bonefish tools and improving profitability across all of our businesses focusing on execution and what BJ has referred to in the past as controlling what we can control.
So with that BJ I will stop and turn it over to you for your comments.
Thanks Bryan.
Good morning everybody.
I will start off Slide 5.
For the fourth quarter reported net income available to common was $47 million or $0.20 a share and full year was $80 million or $0.34 per share.
As you can see balance sheet growth was strong for both loans and core deposits which led to solid growth in net interest income.
Fee income growth was healthy as well driven by higher fixed income revenues which highlights the differentiation of our business model versus other Street competitors in that space.
While expenses were impacted by some notable items underlying trends were solid as we strive to maintain positive operating leverage where revenues growing faster than expenses.
Loan loss provision continues to remain low.
Our net charge-offs in the quarter were less than $2 million with net recoveries in the regional bank.
As I mentioned we did have some notable items in both the fourth quarter and the full year.
In the fourth quarter those notable items included a litigation accrual and impairment on a tax credit investment and acquisition-related costs which were somewhat offset by tax benefits in the quarter.
I will go through those a little more on the next slide.
So if we turn to the next slide Slide 6 this shows adjusted results for 4Q 15 and full year 2015.
Since we have had some moving parts in our results both in the quarter and over the past year we thought it would be helpful to show you the quarterly and full year impact of the notable items which are listed here and detailed out in the appendix for both 2015 and 2014.
We believe these adjusted results provide a useful view of our underlying performance in 2015.
Looking at the bottom graph shows our momentum as our balance sheet growth is translating into good net interest income growth with improved fee income growth from FTN somewhat offset by variable compensation in that business as well as other investments we have made in our company over the last year particularly in our frontline compensation structure new hires in expansion markets and our digital capabilities.
Slide 7 shows an overview of our segment highlights and some variance analysis on each.
But lets go straight to some more detail on our core businesses in the next few slides.
I will start with the regional bank on Slide 8 which continued its solid performance.
Net interest income was up 3% linked quarter primarily due to loan growth in our commercial portfolios.
Non-interest income was flat linked quarter as growth in trust and bank card fees offset declines in other areas.
Expenses were up from higher personnel expense related to the TrustAtlantic closing as well as compensation enhancements.
Recall that 3Q 15 expenses in the banking included about $4 million of pre-tax gains related to an employee benefit planned amendment.
Credit trends remained stable in the bank.
The loan loss provision was $6 million down from $7 million in the third quarter as asset quality remains strong in the bank and credit trends remains positive.
Balance sheet trends again were very solid with favorable comparisons to both linked quarter and prior year.
Turning to Slide 9 and taking a look at the regional bank balance sheet in a little bit more detail.
You can see by the chart on the right we saw broad-based growth across many of our portfolios.
Average loans were up 3% linked quarter and 12% over 4Q 14.
Average commercial loan growth excluding loans to mortgage companies was up 14% year-over-year and 6% linked quarter.
As you know we did close our acquisition of TrustAtlantic in early fourth quarter.
As you can see by the bullet on this slide the addition of those customer loan balances contribute about 2% of the growth both linked quarter and full year.
Our strategic focus on our specialty lending businesses is paying off as we are up in asset-based lending and private clients.
Our bankers are having success winning deals through relationships market knowledge and balance sheet capacity.
In addition to our loan and deposit growth we saw improvements in profitability.
Despite ongoing pricing competition linked quarter net interest spread in the bank was up 3 basis points to 348 basis points.
We held deposit costs flat at 12 basis points and loan yields were actually up driven by higher loans to mortgage companies accretion from the TrustAtlantic acquisition and an increase in LIBOR that started around mid-November in anticipation of the Fed moves that incurred in December.
We also remain highly focused on economic profit as Bryan talked about.
In fact our regional bank economic profitability improved 18% year-over-year from 14 to 15 reflecting our emphasis particularly on specialty lending deposit growth fees and improving the credit quality of the loans we were servicing and generating for our clients.
I will describe the commentary from our customers concerning the economy much like what Bryan said I would use the term practical in most of our markets.
We are continuing to see good opportunities particularly in our specialty lending areas in growth markets such as Middle Tennessee Mid-Atlantic and Houston.
And since we are relatively new to the Houston market we dont have significant exposure to energy lending which you can see in our pie chart.
While we remain disciplined with underwriting we actually see opportunities for loan growth in Houston given the market disruption.
Lets look at our fixed income business results on Slide 10.
Net income rebounded in the fourth quarter of 15 on increased average daily revenues as Bryan talked about which rose to $850 000 a day compared with $671 000 in the third quarter.
Increased market volatility slightly higher rates at least through the fourth quarter and more clarity from the Fed around interest rates drove the improvement.
Expenses were $55 million compared to $60 million in the third quarter.
Recall that our third quarter included about $11.6 million of expense related to litigation.
And for the full year all major debt saw increased revenues with three of the four agencies corporates and municipals each up over 15%.
As I mentioned earlier we believe that FTNs models differentiated and allows us to quickly take advantage of market activity while efficiently managing our risk exposures and balance sheet usage.
Our extensive and stable distribution platform also gives us a strong competitive advantage that serves our customers well and increasingly its also a big advantage in terms of recruiting talent given the disruption occurring across the fixed income industry.
Building on a strong performance and attracting talent in recent years FTN added ten seasoned fixed income sales professionals during 2015 from various firms across the street as we continue our ongoing focus to growing market shares through strategic hires.
Gains are being made in market share as well.
As an example you can see on the right hand side of this slide what Bryan alluded to that our FTN business was ranked as the number one underwriter of callable GSE debt up against strong competition.
We have a total of over $21 billion underwritten.
We saw an increase in volume of $10 billion in underwritten volume over their previous year.
This resulted in about 817 total deals in 2015 compared to 513 in 2014 which translates into an average of about three new deals underwritten every business day.
We are proud of their performance.
We also continue to make good progress in the expansion of our municipal products and public finance capability increasing our standing in municipal underwriting retails ranking in the top five for 2015 in both bank qualified and all competitive new issues.
Overall we are well positioned to continue to achieve strong returns in our fixed income business take advantage of market activity and opportunities.
Lets turn to consolidated balance sheet margin trends on Slide 11.
We ended the year with total average assets of $26 billion up 3% linked quarter.
Average loans grew 2% and average core deposits were up 3%.
Net interest income was up 2% linked quarter and up 5% year-over-year in 4Q 15.
The NII growth was due to higher loan balances in the bank somewhat offset by runoff in the non-strategic but still seeing net gains.
Our net interest margin in the fourth quarter was 2.82% compared to 2.85% in the third with the decrease from lower loans to mortgage companies quarter-to-quarter a reduction in non-strategic loans and excess cash balances.
You may recall that last quarter on this call we were expecting a much lower net interest margin in the fourth quarter than where we ended up which was encouraging.
We had lower than expected cash levels.
Accretion from TrustAtlantic loans helped and increase in LIBOR starting about mid-November helped as well and higher than forecast levels of loan to mortgage companies were the last piece of the puzzle that contributed to more positive results.
Our 4Q 15 NIM of 2.82% was also just slightly below our 4Q 14 NIM of 2.86% with loan pricing competition is strong as it is with limited opportunities to lower our funding costs.
I am pleased that our bankers were able to demonstrate this relative stability for our margin.
Moving onto expenses on Slide 12 we have made a lot of progress over the last few years on reducing our costs through the wind down of our legacy portfolio reducing our legal costs decreasing occupancy and streamlining some processes.
For 2016 our goal is to keep our core run rate of expenses at roughly the same levels as 2015.
And as you can see on this slide we have shown you a quarterly breakout of our expenses where we walk you from our reported expense back out notable items and give you a view of what we believe our ongoing incremental expense is as well.
As you know this expense level could fluctuate depending on fixed income segments variable compensation levels that are tied to revenue which is a good expense.
And as an example the 15% linked quarter increase in fixed income revenues resulted in the net increase linked quarter for an FTN variable compensation of about $5 million.
And while we continue to look for ways to improve efficiency we also plan on continuing to invest in our businesses through strategic hires upgrading technology and building out our growth markets.
And while the initial move in short rates by the Fed was helpful we know we still have work to do on the expense side and we will continue to do so.
Turning to asset quality on Slide 13 credit trends remained solid across our portfolios.
Net charge-offs were at just $2 million in fourth quarter compared to $12 million in the third quarter.
Our fourth quarter included $15 million of recoveries versus $10 million of recoveries in the third quarter.
And the fourth quarter benefited from a $6 million recovery on a single credit in the bank.
Linked quarter non-performing assets declined 2% and were down 12% year-over-year.
The reserves to loans ratio was at 119 basis points in the fourth compared to 126 basis points in the third.
For 2016 we expect asset quality trends to continue remaining stable assuming ongoing economic strength as we have maintained discipline in our underwriting and portfolio management practices.
Wrapping up on Slides 14 and 15 we are again pleased with our progress.
We are seeing strength in our core businesses with regional banking and fixed income improved results a solid balance sheet as evidenced by growth in both loans and core deposits and a stable credit quality environment.
We will continue to focus on driving positive operating leverage by growing revenues faster than expenses.
Our ongoing efforts to find further efficiencies will continue.
Our focus on economic profit and improvement is proving effective and will continue as well.
Capital deployment remains a top priority for us and we were able to deploy capital in 2015 through a dividend increase share repurchases and the TrustAtlantic acquisition and we anticipate more opportunities to profitably use our capital in the coming year.
So thanks for listening and now I will turn it over back over to Bryan.
Thank you BJ.
We are very pleased with the results in 2015.
As BJ said year-over-year growth and profitability in all of our businesses our core businesses strong balance sheet trends good growth in loans and deposits credit quality remained strong.
As we look at 2016 as we have said we continue to see the economy progressing forward and recovering at a modest pace.
We are optimistic that the Fed will increase rates.
Our forecast is based on a couple of moves over the course of the next year.
We think we are building a very strong franchise the investments that we are making in people and then our market continues to be important and is proving to produce positive results.
And we think we are well positioned to continue to add to that.
I will add my thanks to our First Tennessee First Horizon employees and thank them for their hard work and all they have done to accomplish the results in 2015 and set us up for a very strong transition into 2016.
So with that Kate I will open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from John Pancari of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Just wanted to see if you can give little bit more color on the margin outlook I guess just how you are thinking about that particularly given the better than expected results this quarter? And also given your expectation for the Fed to hike an incremental 2x it sounds like if that doesnt happen where would you expect the margin to go barring that? Yes hey John its BJ.
Good morning.
Well kind of as I alluded to in my prior comments to essentially keep our net interest margin relatively stable from 4Q 14 to 4Q 15 demonstrates I believe our ability to manage through little help from the interest rate environment or the yield curve.
And so I am proud of what we have done in the past.
Now what we are anticipating now as we sit here today is two moves from the Fed in 2016.
So thats kind of our base operating assumption.
So if that occurs we should see continued modest increase in our net interest margin due to our asset sensitivity position throughout 2016.
Now there could be quarterly fluctuations with that but we should see and would expect steady improvement throughout the course of the year if that occurs.
If it doesnt occur we are again in the same position that we have been in the past where we will be defending margin.
But I am pleased with what I am seeing in terms of discipline around loan pricing where we are growing loans and where we are getting incremental yields.
And so I am confident we will be able to defend our margin appropriately if we dont see much in terms of rates.
Okay.
Thanks BJ.
And then separately on the capital markets business obviously a very good quarter on that front and wanted to see if you could just give us some thoughts on how you expect that to trend through the year or if this was any particular strength in this quarter that may not be something that we see again next quarter or if there is anything that could impact the outlook there if you could just provide a little bit color? Thanks.
I will start John.
This is Bryan.
The fourth quarter had strength but it was really market-driven strength as the Fed moved towards raising rates in December.
BJ mentioned earlier that LIBOR started trending up and as we saw when days when the interest rates moved up fixed income revenue was very strong.
And when it came  when rates came down it slowed down.
So we dont think there was anything that was unusually structural that would change.
We think we have got the same environmentals that are available in 2016 and beyond.
Now we do think that its going to be somewhere less than our 1% to 1.5% range for the next year or so simply because of the level of rates and the expectation that any rate increases are going to be fairly modest.
Rates have rarely come in with some of this volatility in the equity markets over the first two three weeks of 2016.
So given that on days when rates have backed up we have seen fairly strong days.
And when rates have come down its been kind of solved.
So we dont think anything fundamentally changes.
We do think as BJ and I both tried to note and some on our opening comments we think we are well positioned in that business our callable agency business that we have highlighted a couple of times was very positive.
We made a number of strategic hires.
We do think that as some of the structural changes are made and the bigger bond houses the Street firms we think we have the opportunity to continue to pick up consolidate some market share given our broad-based calling effort in our long-term history of matching up buyers and sellers to fixed income securities.
So its little difficult to predict what rates will do quarter-to-quarter.
We think it will be a little bit lower over the course of the next several quarters but we do think that we are very very well positioned to  in that business to consolidate share and to grow profitably over the long term.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
I wanted to first follow-up on BJs comments on expenses.
Is the guidance of old expenses flat in 2016 which I guess is around $870 million which are showing on Slide 12? Yes generally speaking yes.
If you recall last call that we had thats what we have discussed and we have said think about $8 million to $10 million of incremental costs from TrustAtlantic.
And so that would be probably in the $860million $870 million range something like that.
And so thats what we are shooting for.
It could fluctuate depending on what we just talked about which is fixed income variable comp.
But we think that thats a good level for us to strive for.
Steve this is Bryan.
As we have demonstrated over the last 6 7 years the expense control is clearly one of the most leveragable levers that the industry has and that we have.
And we maintain a strong focus on controlling cost.
And at the same time we have continued to make significant investments in our technology.
And as BJ noted in his comments in people and we are very focused on controlling costs.
We think that we can maintain cost in a flat sort of range in 2016.
And we think in addition to the things that BJ has mentioned this morning using our profitability tools looking at what it cost to deliver products and services and the disaggregation of the business we think that gives a sort of additional avenues or lenders to help us keep those costs under control as we move into 2016 and beyond.
Okay.
Thats helpful Bryan.
On the asset sensitivity it looks like its modestly down given what you guys did in the fourth quarter.
Given your outlook for two hikes in 2016 any plans to take similar actions to further trim asset sensitivity in 2016? We are continually looking at where we want to be in terms of asset sensitivity.
We dont have any specific plans right now besides what we did in the fourth quarter which was incrementally grow the securities portfolio.
We did some bond swaps to extend duration on certain parts of the portfolio which we think will be helpful and moderated asset sensitivity.
But at this point since we did get in an initial move we want to wait and see a little bit more about how quickly those moves come and we will adjust accordingly.
We had more opportunity to moderate it if we want to but we are good with our position right now.
Steve I will just add to that.
You may remember from what we said in the third quarter the context around us reducing that asset sensitivity.
We believe that it was entirely appropriate to raise rates in December.
And we think its entirely appropriate that the Fed continues to increase rates.
The context we tried to put around it is our view that interest rates would get above the 200 basis points.
So of move it was embedded in there.
It was fairly unlikely.
We see this cycle somewhere in the 1 to 2 maybe at the high end 2.5% at the high end before the next recession or whatever causes rates to trend down.
So we just dont think that in this cycle rates are going to go significantly up more than the 2% or so.
So we tried to take off some of the excess or the high end of that.
We benefit most from the first few moves as I am sure most in the industry do.
So we dont have a view that rates arent going to go up and that rates shouldnt go up.
We firmly believe that rates should go up and we are optimistic that the Fed will continue to move.
We just have reduced sensitivity to what we think is sort of the outlier rate moves which are beyond 2% 2.5% in this cycle.
The next question comes from Ebrahim Poonawala of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
And just a quick question first Bryan on capital deployment.
We obviously have a ton of excess capital if you can just remind us in terms of how you are thinking about buybacks and most of organic growth versus potential sort of M&amp;A opportunities? Yes.
Ebrahim thank you.
The  I guess first and foremost you saw our preferred use of capital in 2015 which is to grow the balance sheet and to grow it organically.
And I have said a couple of times in different settings over the last several quarters I feel really really good about the loan production that our bankers were able to produce.
And I think as BJ highlighted it was done in a market where rates and structure were under a fair amount of pressure.
And as I have said our bankers were going after a part of the market and winning long-term relationship opportunities that we feel very good about.
So first and foremost we want to put capital to work organically.
As BJ noted we completed the TrustAtlantic acquisition.
We bought back a little bit of stock in the fourth quarter.
We were out for extended portion of 2015 because of the proxy solicitation in connection with the TrustAtlantic acquisition.
I havent looked at stocks this morning but my sense is nothing has changed a whole lot since Friday and our stock is going on sale since Friday.
So given where we bought in the fourth quarter we think its an attractive opportunity to put some capital into deployment in a market where the stock is going on sale relative to what we think the long-term value of the organization is.
So we will continue to use our buyback.
As I have said in the past we will be opportunistic and we feel like this is an opportunity.
Now you mentioned M&amp;A.
We still think that it makes sense for smartly priced thoughtful lower premium type transactions to be  to put capital to work in an M&amp;A context.
I dont know that the environment has changed all that significantly over the last several months.
In some sense maybe the backup in stock prices makes it more probable in some maybe and makes it less more probable.
But we are going to look at all three levers.
We think we have got continued opportunities to invest organically in the business.
We think our buyback is used opportunistically as a great way to get capital back in our shareholders hands.
And if we have the right deal opportunities we certainly will consider those and look for opportunities to grow through acquisition.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
And just in terms of to tag along something you mentioned in terms of your competitive pressures both on rates and structure I was wondering if you can sort of give some color around where it does stands today relative to 6 months or 12 months ago and is that becoming a factor as you try to retain talent within the banks who are being far more easier underwriting standards and making harder for you to retain talent and relationships? Yes.
I will start and I will let Susan and I am probably going to make one point thats maybe not as credit oriented in response to your question Ebrahim.
It seems to me that the structure side of it had deteriorated so much previously to the last several quarters that there is not as much deterioration in the structure side of things.
It tends to be more on the pricing.
And the pricing what I observe is long-term fixed rate lending as opposed  there is some of which is absolutely low spreads.
We feel good about our employee retention.
And the point I want to make that was sort of non-credit related.
I have talked about this some in the past.
We think that in this environment where pricing and structure has largely run its course you are seeing an effort by competitors and the industry.
And to us and by us to some extent to grow through acquisition of talented RMs and bankers portfolio managers etcetera financial center managers.
And we have extraordinarily talented group of bankers.
And so we think that itself and has put some pressure on compensation across the franchise and the industry.
And we think thats likely to be something we see more of in 2016 not less.
Let me stop with that and turn it over to Susan to talk about the credit environment.
I would confirm what Bryan said that over the last quarter or two you have actually seen structural competitiveness fully stabilized pricing is still under pressure.
Our bankers both the long-tenured bankers that have been with our company for years as well as the great new hires that we have made over the last several years are able to go out and talk to our customers about the fact that really get into businesses both relationship by relationship but also by line of business.
We stick with customers and we stick with the line of business.
So we are consistent throughout various cycles.
In talking with some of our bankers who do frequently go against competition from a pricing perspective we are able to talk to them about that value proposition where the fact that high level of service longer tenured banking team and the fact that we stay in lines of business through various cycles.
So we believe that the environment has not affected our ability to retain talent and relationship.
The next question comes from Matt OConnor of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
This is Rob Placet from Matts team.
First I was just wondering if you could help to frame your expectations around achieving positive operating leverages here and how much of that will be dependent on additional rate hikes from here? Sure.
Yes.
Its BJ.
Certainly some of it is for sure.
But if you look back on I think its Slide 6 where we kind of gave you a view kind of addressing out notable items to the pretax income walk-forward you will see net interest income was up $26 million over 14.
And that had no hikes in it.
That is net growth on our balance sheet from strong growth in the regional bank offsetting anything thats happened in the non-strategic.
So our bankers have demonstrated the ability to net grow.
Now rates would certainly help but we are not necessarily waiting for that.
And the reason that we you have heard us using the term positive operating leverage is we think that aligns with our philosophy around the bonefish that we are going to pull levers that we can as the opportunity arises and control what we can control.
So if we do see a better rate environment for us and that translates into higher revenues we will still remain disciplined on expenses but we will be able to invest and have expenses grow less than revenues but still be able to net grow the business.
If those rate increases dont materialize kind of like what we talked about earlier on an earlier question around expenses flattish expense levels to 2015 I believe its pretty good performance given wage pressures that we have seen particularly for our frontline talent regulatory costs etcetera.
So I feel pretty good about our ability to do that and manage through that in the right way.
Okay.
And then just separately what tax rates should we assume for this year? Good question.
I would assume a tax rate probably in the 30% to 34% range.
I wont get into all the mechanics unless you want to call offline about how do you calculate effective tax rates.
But clearly when you have larger one-time items it really kind of distorts that rate but 30% to 34% is really what we should be thinking for 16.
The next question comes from Marty Mosby of Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
BJ I wanted to follow up on the earlier question about rate sensitivity.
You increased the securities portfolio period end to period end by $250 million but yet cash still increased because deposit inflows continue.
Is the stability of the deposit base given any more confidence to push some of that duration out and take advantage of the yield curve at this point? Yes Marty.
Part of the reason that we saw a little bit better net interest margin in the fourth quarter was actually that we did have strong  continued strong commercial deposit inflows.
They actually werent as strong seasonally as what we had anticipated.
And so the net result was while we did added securities portfolio knowing that we had excess cash balances that we were confident in we actually didnt add to the securities portfolio as much as we would have thought.
So right now what we are looking at is making sure that we understand the core deposit trends particularly on the commercial side which can go in and out a little bit more before we extend our sales any further from a securities perspective.
Marty this is Bryan.
I will add to it.
We are very comfortable with our sensitivity position as we have described it.
And I guess structurally speaking we dont believe in the carriage rate you make some money at it but it doesnt always end well.
And we think using that portfolio to manage our interest sensitivity and to manage our liquidity in our collateral needs is our primary objective.
So its unlikely that given levels of deposits or otherwise that we would look to put more duration on through the securities portfolio.
I am very comfortable with our sensitivity position the way its structured today and we may change that over time.
But today we are very comfortable with it.
And then two just kind of questions mortgage loans to mortgage companies were stronger I didnt think to drop off as much.
I was wondering if that had what your thoughts were about maybe the strength in the mortgage market right now? And then also the continued expansion in Houston given the pressures of energy it seems like you are pretty comfortable with the overall market down there.
So I just thought you could have some insights into two things impacting the industry on what you are seeing in those two businesses right now? Thanks.
Yes.
This is Bryan again Marty.
Thank you.
The loans to mortgage companies did remain strong and they started off 2016 strong.
So I think that indicates that the mortgage market is still pretty steady.
And we as we have talked in the past have worked to consolidate some market share and increase utilization with our customers and we are seeing the progress on that.
Susan can sort of get into the details if she would like on the exposures in Houston.
We feel very very good about our opportunities in Houston.
We have got a very strong team of bankers with an outstanding group of relationships.
We think we are positioned in a very advantageous way given that we do not have outsized exposure to energy.
We think that this $29 a barrel oil or wherever it bottoms out is going to create some dislocation in the market and similar to not having a lot of commercial real estate in 2009 2010 we think we are appropriately positioned to step in to build some customer relationships and to capitalize on what our team of bankers can bring to the table there.
So we think the Houston opportunity is going to be a very good one for us.
Its going to rise through some volatility in the oil markets and its going to impact the Houston economy but we think our exposure there places us very well for the future.
Marty we do believe that Houston will be a good opportunity for us and that our timing there will serve us well.
As Bryan mentioned not only have our bankers been in that market a long time and been through cycles but the clients that we are selecting in our portfolios and the prospects that we are calling on are also companies that have been through cycles and know how to mitigate risk associated with various price differentials.
And so we are going very cautiously.
Today we have got about $165 million outstanding in Houston portfolio a little over $100 million of that is energy-related.
Much of that was brought on as after prices were declining.
So our position there is good.
Commercial real estate outstandings are about $20 million $25 million.
So again kind of a going slowly there but we do believe there are opportunities that we are watching out the Houston market overall response to these declining energy prices and look forward to seeing where they stabilize ultimately.
The next question is from Emlen Harmon of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Susan just on that last point about kind of Houston growth and the competitive environment you are actually starting to see any of your competitors stepping away from that market and effectively making some more attractive credits available to you guys? Emlen absolutely all not only attractive credits but also potentially employees as well.
Some of the banks are getting out of energy completely.
Some are choosing certain segments getting out of middle-market focusing just on large corporate.
So we do believe its early stages but we do believe there will be opportunities for us to selectively get into some very good relationships as a result of some of this dislocation in the energy lending business.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then BJ its a couple for you on the NIM.
You had mentioned LIBOR is being a benefit for the NIM this quarter.
Could you just quantify the benefits of the move on the short end on the fourth quarter? And then I would also just be curious to hear your thoughts on deposit competition and if anything 25 basis points was enough to generate anything there this quarter? Yes sure.
So yes lets call it 1 to 2 basis points on the move in the LIBOR for this quarter.
Its probably the best guess.
And then deposit competition I would say is still rather benign.
We hear across our markets some community banks some credit unions that are doing certain things.
They were doing them even before the Fed raised rates.
So we havent seen a lot of movement at all in our markets particularly from the larger competitors that can really move some balances around.
So thats been a positive for us.
And so hopefully that will continue but we have got ample plans to be able to react to competition as appropriate.
The next question comes from Ken Zerbe of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Ken.
Two questions for you.
First one really quick one on the tax rate just want to make sure I understand this so I calculate 2015 on an FTE basis tax rate around call it 23% 24%.
I heard your guidance is 30% to 34% in 2016.
Seems like a really big increase.
I just want to make sure that we are actually talking about the same numbers here? Yes.
So embedded in all of our notable items impacts for you  in all the detail here essentially what we did is we backed out all of the notable items.
We look at what our pre-tax income would have been.
We taxed that at the incremental tax rate less our permanent tax credits that we always had year in and year out plus what we call discrete tax benefits 1048 reversals and some of that technical stuff capital loss carryovers et cetera.
And if you get to what our effective tax rate essentially would have been without any of these notable one-time items it would have been about 29% for 2015.
The reason it goes up to 30% to 34% this year is because some of the one-time types tax benefits are uncertain.
You cant project them whether you are going to see those things reoccur.
And so we assume a 30% to 34% allowing for a little bit of wiggle room for some of those things to occur.
Got it.
But we should include I think you did mention like permanent tax benefits I mean there seems to be  if you were in my position it sounds like there might be a little bias towards the lower end of the 30% is that fair way that should we understand you? Yes.
I mean just the real high level our incremental tax rate is in the 38% 39% range.
And so look at whatever you think our pretax income is tax it at that level and then we usually have lets call it 4% to 8% of permanent tax credits that reduce that rate down into the levels that I talked about.
Okay.
So anything lower would be just much more unusual one-time items.
Okay.
Correct.
That makes sense.
And then just other quick question on the capital markets ADR I think you have mentioned it might a little bit lower going forward.
But when we think about rate hikes we do get  if the Fed does raise rates a couple of times whatever it is two three four times in 2016 does those events drive higher ADR by themselves or I am just trying to get a sense of what could actually drive the ADR more towards the higher end? Thanks.
Sure.
So as we have talked about in the past probably the number one driver of the boil it down is market volatility.
We can represent buyers or sellers and so whenever there is increased volume and volatility we can do well whether its good volatility or bad volatility so to speak in the market.
So thats probably the main driver.
The second is clarity around rates and we alluded to it in our opening comments.
But since people felt more and more confident as we got to mid-December that the Fed was actually going to raise rates that actually helped people understand where they wanted to be invested and how long.
And so we saw a little bit of a pickup in activity from people feeling a little bit more certain at least in the short-term about how they wanted to position their portfolios.
Whats happened is this year so far with the flattening of the longer end of the curve is certainly not helpful.
So thats probably a headwind to any activity.
But then again thats offset by whatever volatility we will see and with the markets doing what they have done you can imagine that there has been more volatility.
So I go back to what Bryan said is we were at 8.50 for the quarter good increase year-over-year probably not back to the $1 million to $1.5 million range yet.
But the range that we saw in the fourth quarter plus or minus a little bit is kind of our operating assumption at this point.
The next question comes from Jennifer Demba of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Jennifer.
Bryan can you just give us a little more color on your M&amp;A appetite and your interest levels in terms of what size banks you are most interested in and think realistically if you get some transactions done? Yes.
Well you complicated it by saying realistically getting deals done.
We are looking at a number of different things at various points in time.
And we have come to the conclusion that it probably makes more sense to look for what I would describe as larger transactions where if you are going to go through the regulatory approval process and its going to take 8 months 10 months 11 months then taking time to do that on smaller transactions is more difficult that you need to think about larger transactions.
In the past I have talked about the likelihood and really the need in my view and the industry to see merger of equal type transactions lower premium transactions and transactions that create value for shareholders in both organizations.
So as we think about it we think that those transactions if they can be identified and structured or particularly helpful to shareholders but also allow organizations to leverage the increasing costs of technology and the need to compete with the non-traditional financial services companies and to make their investments in regulatory infrastructure etcetera.
Back to your comment or suggestion about practicality I think a couple of things impacting I think one is  and with some disappointment I am disappointed that the significantly  excuse me the SIFI designation was not raised in the last session of Congress.
I think that is a boundary that you dont breach lightly.
But  so I think that needs to grow up over time.
So today we would be trying to think about transactions that would keep us in the range of below that specific designation and been systemically unimportant in some ways is a good thing.
So we think doing and looking for opportunities that create value that allows to leverage our cost infrastructure that have business models that look and feel and can be put together in a rational fashion with ours make all the sense in the world.
And I dont think you do multiple of those transactions in the next year or 2 years but I think its something that we will continue to work on and try to identify.
The next question comes from Christopher Marinac of FIG Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Bryan I just wanted to ask you and BJ about the level of reserves and I guess also about providing for loan growth is  are we at a point where you would provide for loan growth incrementally or will you simply look at the reserve relative to your expected charge-offs? Hey its BJ I will start.
If you actually look at the regional bank dollar amount in reserves its gone up.
And so our coverage has stayed relatively steady in the regional bank.
And so while we have continued to see positive great migration in the bank while we have continued to see loan growth we try to realistically look at our reserve levels there and maintain those accounting for the increment loan growth but also seeing opportunities to moderate that reserve as well.
But we feel comfortable about where we are there.
If you look under the covers of where the reserve coverage has been coming down its in the non-strategic portfolios thats had less than $5 million of charge-offs and even a quarter or two quarters of recoveries in a portfolio thats running off.
And so thats where we are getting the net benefit of a reduction in reserves.
But we had active dialogue about maintaining healthy reserves particularly as we are growing loans in the regional bank and we feel comfortable where we stand today.
Thanks BJ.
Thats helpful.
I mean does this also reflect that the level of charge-offs is simply just not that great for this next few quarters? Not that great in meaning...
In terms of being low sorry very low levels.
Low numbers are great and insignificant.
Yes.
I mean its an interesting problem to have and a discussion have as your net charge-offs are so low.
You understand that they cant be that low forever but you have also got to make sure that your compliant with GAAP and compliant with auditors and regulators etcetera.
And its a balancing act but the bottom line that we always look at is we want to be comfortable with our safety and soundness.
We come to the right number.
We document that number.
And then we explain it appropriately to all interested parties.
And again we will continue to do that and feel very comfortable about where we sit.
Chris this is Bryan.
The accounting around loan loss reserves has become very mechanical over the last several years in my view to a fault.
And so its almost of an implied degree of precision that doesnt exist in reality.
And I think we try to balance that out with what is sort of a practical view where credit trends are headed.
And then the second point we have talked in a number of different ways about the economy continuing to move forward.
And as we look at emerging problems in credit portfolios we just really dont see that many.
We think that the economy continues to move forward the credit quality is strong and clearly at 4 basis points of losses with  a lot of that driven by one net recovery.
That is pretty great.
But we would  really do think that credit trends continue to be strong into 2016 as the economy continues to move forward.
And that coupled with what we are hearing from our customers that they are optimistic and they are borrowing money and they are still looking to invest that although we have seen a dislocation in the oil markets commodity markets and we are seeing some dislocation in China and internationally.
We think the economy can continue to be pretty steady and as a result credit quality will be as well.
The next question comes from Jefferson Harralson of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I want to ask you first about your first quarter margin I know you have had some  I think you have had some debt maturities in the fourth quarter how much help does that give you? Hey Jefferson its BJ.
I want to make sure I understood were you asking about first quarter margin? Yes.
Okay.
Yes.
I think what I expect sitting here today is our first quarter margin to be relatively steady to where we were in the fourth maybe modestly up thats what we currently have forecasted for the quarter.
First quarter net interest income and margin Jefferson is always impacted by day counts and the contract billings on loans and etcetera.
And so first quarter is always a little squarely.
But you ought to see some continued benefit of the Fed increase that we had in the fourth quarter.
BJ highlighted a basis point or 2 basis points that we saw because LIBOR ramping up with the resets on LIBOR being 30 and 90 it takes a little while to work through the balance sheet so all of that sort of fits in to what BJ just described.
Yes.
The other thing I would mention is first quarter if you look back and see the big changes Bryan mentioned day count the other is excess balance is that the Fed.
And so it will be dependent on what kind of deposit flows that we get.
But again I think hopefully we can keep it relatively steady.
Right.
And I will ask you a question on your mortgage warehouse business and TRID I know TRID has been or I have been reading anyway thats been slowing down closing times and does that help your mortgage warehouse business is that why loans to mortgage companies are up in a quarter thats seasonally slow? Jefferson we have talked a lot of our customers as well as with our mortgage warehouse lending team.
All of the mortgage warehouse customers who are ready for TRID the TRID issue could have accounted for a small part of the increase in mortgage warehouse.
But we did saw additional usage as Bryan mentioned we have really worked with our clients to increase the utilization and selectively increase some of the line limits for some of our mortgage warehouse lending customers.
In the fourth quarter you actually saw 53% was purchased which is high for the fourth quarter.
So we are pleased by that.
And so in doing some deep dives with customers the TRID issue really didnt contribute very much to that increase.
Okay alright.
Thanks guys.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Bryan Jordan for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Kate.
Thank you all for joining the call this morning.
We are very excited about our 2015 results and encouraged about our opportunities in 2016.
Thanks again to our colleagues.
If you have any questions or need additional follow-up please reach out to any of us.
Aarti will be available throughout the day as well.
Thank you all again.
Hope you have a great day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.