Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Raymond J.
Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Co.
Thank you Mr.
Hanley you may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Today the call will be led by Chris Donahue Federated CEO; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
And we also have Debbie Cunningham who is Chief Investment Officer for Money Markets who will join us with some commentary on market activity and interest rate outlook and participate in our Q&amp;A.
And by way of forward-looking statements let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review our risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning.
I will start with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance before turning the call over to Tom to discuss our financials.
Looking at cash management.
Money Markets average assets increased from the prior quarter for both our funds and our separate accounts.
As mentioned in the last call expected outflows early in Q1 mainly from flows that came in late in the year led to lower period-end fund assets.
Growth in average money fund assets was mainly from wealth management and trust channel while Money Market's separate accounts growth reflected tax seasonality.
While market conditions remained challenging our cash management business is strong and stable with our market share steady at around 8.8%.
Debbie will comment later on the recent market conditions which have further impacted yields and fee waivers which Tom will also address.
On the regulatory front money funds continue to be an active topic of discussion.
Federated and others support the liquidity bank proposal advanced by the industry through the ICI.
This enhancement would compliment that new liquidity provision of 2a-7 and would not socialize credit risk.
We do not agree with suggestions that favor bank-wide regulation or bank-wide capital requirements which in our view are far off the point and are more likely to do significant harm than enhance the resiliency of money funds an important stated objective.
In terms of the potential for a systemic risk designation we don't believe that we will nor should be designated and have submitted commentary in support for our opinions to the regulators.
Looking now at our Equity business.
We are focused on a series of strategies that have solid performance characteristics and are well suited to meet the particular demands in the market.
Leading in this area is strategic value dividend a strategy that continues to produced strong flows and expanded distribution opportunities for both mutual funds and separate accounts.
We added an international version of this strategy in mid-2008 and it has achieved strong one-year and quarterly results ranking in the top 3% of its peer group.
The Clover Small Value strategy has solid 3 and 5-year results.
This is an area that we see as good growth opportunity in part because other successful products in this space in the marketplace have closed to new investors.
At the other end of the cap spectrum the costs in large cap funds also has a strong 3-year record and is garnering some solid flows.
The International Leaders and InterContinental Funds had positive flows in Q1.
InterContinental recently received the Lipper Fund Award for its category leading 10-year consistent return results.
The Federated Emerging Market Debt Fund was also recognized as the leading fund on the same basis for its 3-year record.
While we usually direct our comments to longer-term performance records with the difficulties that quant strategies across the industry including ours experienced over the last couple of years we did want to note that our MDT quant team had very strong performance in the first quarter.
The primary strategy all-cap core brought its record to the top quartile for the one-year period and had a top 1% ranking quarter for the first quarter.
All 7 of the MDT managed accounts strategies beat their benchmarks in the first quarter and 6 of 7 have outperformed since inception.
Negative equity fund closed in Q1 and in the first couple of weeks of Q2 are due mainly to our alternative strategies which are market ops and Prudent Bear and to the Kaufmann fund.
Looking at early Q1 results for the first -- I mean early Q2 results for the first few weeks equity fund flows have been modestly negative.
As regards to Kaufmann Fund one short comment their approach continues to be the focus on high-quality growth company and to use of extensive proprietary research and a bottoms-up style with high conviction and low turnover.
It is very much a long-term approach.
Turning to the fixed income strategies.
The Capital Preservation Fund led results for both gross and net sales and I'll comment further on that shortly.
High-yield funds and our strategic income blended product were among a series of funds that had positive flows.
Our Total Return Bond Fund had outflows due mainly to the redemption we mentioned on our last call from a client who reached their maximum fund concentration level.
We also saw outflows in municipal Bond Funds.
We are continuing to look -- we are looking for good results from 2 recently launched products: our Unconstrained Bond Fund and our Floating Rate Strategic Income Fund.
Bond Fund flows are negative in the first couple of weeks of April.
The Uni Bond Funds continue to have net outflows.
We have also seen some clients reducing their fixed income allocation as a part of re-risking strategies.
This led to a few lumpy outflows in the first quarter and a $200 million redemption this month in Total Return Bond Fund.
Turning to fund performance.
And looking at the quarter-end Lipper rankings where Federated's equity funds 22% of the assets are rated in the first or second quartile over the last year 16% over 3 years 26% over 5 years and 84% over 10 years.
For Bond Fund assets the comparable first and second quarter percentages are 35% 1 year; 51% 3 years; 70% for 5 years; and 68% for 10 years.
Looking at Morningstar-rated fund 20% of the rated equity assets are in foreign 5-star product as of 3/31.
And 2/3 are in 3 4 and 5-star product.
Interestingly 96% of our international equity assets are in the top 2 quartiles for the first year 1 year and 21% for 3 years 78% for 5 years and 78% also for 10 years.
At quarter end we had 11 equity funds with top quartile one-year performance including our strategic dividend domestic and international asset allocation InterContinental and International Leaders Funds along with several of the MDT funds.
We also had 1/2 a dozen funds with top quartile 3-year records and 9 funds with top 5-year records plenty of excellent products that is selling in the marketplace.
As of April 27 our managed assets were $353 billion including $268 billion in Money Market $32 billion in equities $53 billion in fixed income which includes our liquidation portfolios.
Money Market mutual fund assets stand at about $237 billion.
So far in April our money fund assets have ranged between $235 billion and $245 billion and the average has been about $239 billion.
As regards to distribution our Retirement business which we have been investing in by adding sales staff in the DCIO area is strong and growing.
As mentioned we added $1.2 billion into the capital preservation fund in Q1 by competing successfully in a high level RFP process with one of our major distributors.
As a result we have gained product position in about 700 new retirement plans with an estimated 100 000 participants.
We expect these assets to grow each quarter based on regular plan contributions and we're also working to gain additional accounts and to grow the new accounts by adding new strategies into these plans.
Excluding these conversions we saw a 4% increase in Q1 to find contribution growth sales compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Now generally across our channels we see modest re-risking activity as our clients are looking to take on more risk.
They're moving cautiously.
In this environment strategic value dividend offers a solid step-out strategy by providing equity exposure supported by a solid base of dividends.
Flow improvement in equity separate accounts was driven by higher sales of the strategic value dividend strategy and by lower redemptions in the MDT strategies.
As a result we saw positive flows in first quarter equity separate accounts after running negative in 2010.
Fixed income separate account flows continued to be positive and we see the potential for $500 million to $1 billion in new flows in this area over the next couple of quarters.
We enhanced our product marketing effort in the first quarter with the launch of a campaign designed to initially promote the strategic value -- a strategy through a series of web and print ads.
We also recently launched a redesigned website to showcase the insights of our investment professionals and better deliver product and market information and tools to our clients.
Regarding acquisitions we are focused on developing an alliance to further advance our business outside the United States.
We are also actively seeking consolidation deals and recently announced an agreement to transition $515 million from the equity trust funds in Q3.
These were from FBL Financial Group in Iowa.
Now obviously we cannot predict the probability or timing of any other potential deals.
But we are active in our analysis and focusing on developing further of these types of alliances.
Now I would like to turn it over to Tom to discuss our financials.
Thank you Chris.
Excluding the $0.11 of litigation settlement and related expense EPS of $0.32 would have been $0.43.
This expense was $18.2 million pretax nearly all in professional service fees.
Money fund yield waivers reduced pretax income by $13.1 million for the quarter compared to $12.1 million in the prior quarter.
The line items impacted are covered in the press release.
Based on current market conditions and asset levels these waivers would reduce income by approximately $17.5 million in the second quarter.
Lower short-term interest rates in particular for a repurchase agreement impacted these waivers so far in April.
Looking forward we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields will likely reduce the impact of these waivers by about 1/3 from the current level and a 25-basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 2/3.
Looking at revenues the decrease from the prior quarter was due mainly to 2 fewer days in the first quarter which impacted the number by approximately $6.9 million and to higher money fund yield waivers as average assets actually increased for Money Market equity and fixed income while on liquidation portfolios decreased.
Turning to operating expenses.
Compensation and related expenses in Q1 was in line with the estimate we gave last quarter.
Q1 included a credit of approximately $2 million of prior-year incentive compensation.
Distribution expense was down due mainly to higher money fund yield waivers and was also impacted by fewer days which caused a reduction of approximately $2.5 million.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $317 million at quarter end.
This combined with expected additional cash flows from operations and availability under present debt facilities provide debts with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as well as the ability to fund related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new products other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
We would now like to ask Debbie Cunningham to comment on Federated interest rate outlook.
Debbie? Thanks Tom.
Our interest rate outlook has actually not changed too much from the past 2 quarters.
But it has been impacted in the short-term fashioned by some of the regulatory changes that have just come into fruition.
Namely for April 1 -- from the beginning of April 1 what we've seen on an FDIC assessment-based change is lower overnight set fund rates which are the driver for lower overnight repo rates set in the marketplace.
What has -- what essentially -- in 2010 was an average repo rate that was probably in the low to mid-20s.
In the first quarter became somewhere in the neighborhood of the mid-to-high teens.
And looking forward into the second quarter of 2011 it will be likely in the high single-digit area.
As such that will impact how the overall portfolios to some degree are aligned on a composition basis with less in the space that is required to -- that will be impacted by that overnight rate and the FDIC assessment changes.
Having said that though liquidity is the main characteristic of Money Market funds.
And as such we will continue to keep margin out in liquidity products going forward.
So overnight rates are impacted in the first quarter slightly but it will be more so in the second quarter by these FDIC charge assessments.
On an outlook basis however for the overall curve for Money Market assets has actually seen a little bit of improvement.
And a few more people that were in the rate-raising environment for 2013 and late 2012 have moved much closer to our end of the estimation which is the end of 2011.
We do believe and obviously that was confirmed by Fed Chairman Bernanke yes earlier in the week that the overall queue-in-queue process will be completed.
So we'll continue to see the purchase of treasury securities out of the marketplace to the level that was mentioned and for the amount of time that was mentioned.
But soon that will change and it will be something that at the end of June beginning of July we're turning into something that is really an overall level that becomes much more characteristic of a rising-rate environment.
So rising rates are what we would start to see and expect and be it on QT I'll call it quantitative tightening basis beginning in the third quarter.
So we do think that the Fed will start on a reverse repo basis putting some of their securities back out into the marketplace beginning in the third quarter and that will then lead to something that is eventual through tightening ?[indiscernible] increase in the Fed funds rate by the end of the year of 2011.
Thank you Debbie.
We'd like now -- now like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from the line of Roger Freeman of Barclays Capital.
Actually Debbie I just want to come back to the comments you were making just to sort of understand your thinking here.
I guess it seemed to me that the message from the Fed this week was rates aren't going up and were basically holding the balance sheet fairly constant here.
And I guess it sounds like you're suggesting the balance sheet is shrinking and that we do see if -- if I heard you correctly we would see a Fed hike late this year.
It seems like the market has actually been pushing that out that fund future for December have actually come down quite a bit in terms of the likelihood of a rate hike.
I'm just curious.
It seems like there's a bit of a difference there.
Sure.
And absolutely what we're -- we're convinced that the point is that the Fed is going to tread lightly on some of the market perspective.
And Q2 is something -- well to begin with with something that was -- was and continues to be a grand experiment.
And in the context of unwind that grand experiment will continue.
Having said that as market -- as a market that is starved for collateral i.e.
repo FDIC changes lower amounts of collateral available because much of it is sitting on the balance sheet of the Fed.
The Fed will be encouraged as soon as their process is concluded on the purchase side of the equation.
I believe they're set they're ready to do the unwind portion of the -- from at least a temporary basis with the number of adversary co-counterparties that they have in the marketplace.
Obviously they're not just talking about dealing with the primary dealers anymore.
They've got -- I think at the end of the day they're going to have somewhere around 80-some counterparties from a Money Market fund standpoint and as such they have lots of capacity.
And I think what they're going to find is there's a lot of demand for that collateral.
So although it's temporary in nature it's reverse repo.
It's not actually putting those markets -- to putting those securities back out into the marketplace on a sale basis on a profit sale basis.
I do believe that they will head down the path of beginning that process.
And once they do they're going to find very happy recipients of it in the marketplace.
And as such that will encourage them to continue going.
The other side of the equation from our perspective that leads us to still at end of the year 2011 is just to strengthen the economic picture that we've seen.
Although GDP in the first quarter is going to be less than what have maybe been expected slow growth is still something that from a Money Market perspective is almost nirvana.
So we really think that slow growth and slow tightening process is something that will be well risky from the marketplace certainly off the lows that we're in right now and have been for the last 2 1/2 years.
I actually think that as it begins and as the Feds sees sort of the demand for it and the recipients in the marketplace being very positive that leads us to the conclusion where we are which is we think it will be in the second half of 2011.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on the effective Fed funds rate that is 9 basis points right now.
Can you just kind of explain how the FDIC assessments are weighing on that? And then is that something that persists? And as you look at the upward bias to rates that this is going to have some sort of a depressing impact or whatever that trajectory of increase at the front of the curve is going to be? Sure.
I mean the FDIC assessment charges were something that -- they're in -- they're passing on April 1 everybody knew they were going to happen.
The market was very wrong about what the impact would be.
And the reason for that is the Fed in -- it isn't accepting changes.
It's not really changing the amount of intakes the amount of money that was coming into the FDIC fund instead what they were doing was repositioning it so that more of it was being paid by larger banks and less by smaller banks.
So the focus on the marketplace when looking at the impacts last quarter basically and the quarter before that was on the big banks.
So people are looking at JPMorgan BofA Citi and seeing what the impact on those banks would be in there then -- therefore that impacts on the marketplace.
And that was sort of what was built into the expectation.
What was really overworked and underestimated was the power of the smaller bank in this equation.
Many many smaller banks tens of dozens of smaller banks who traditionally had put repo out in -- or put collateral out into the repo marketplace on a daily basis is keeping that supply at the level that it was decided that because of the assessment changes and the impact on their fee process it no longer was a profitable thing.
It couldn't even breakeven in doing that.
So the immediate impact on April 1 was for a sizable amount again on an individual bank-by-bank basis it wouldn't have made a hill of beans difference but on a collective basis the impact of the size of the withdrawal pretty much collectively of those smaller banks from putting that collateral into the marketplace is what caused the rates to plummet.
Now they plummeted too far and what you essentially saw was something that was a retreat back to a fairly normal level.
The foreign banks aren't affected by this and yet they were being impacted in a very positive way because they were getting such great funding rates so that has kind of leveled itself up back again.
But what you're seeing on that Fed funds rate 9 basis points is effectively what I was saying in my commentary earlier that we had been in the low to mid-20s in most of 2010.
First quarter we were in the mid-to-high teens and the expectation for this quarter is in the single digit -- the high single-digits area.
Now there are 2 things that are exacerbating this which could make it a little bit worse at this point.
Number one is the balanced budget issue and the elimination of the supplementary financing bill and the withdrawal of that collateral from the marketplace because of the debt ceiling and that potential for hitting that.
So if those negotiations continue to go forward and hopefully as they come to an end -- a successful end there is discussion about bringing that supplemental financing bill back into the marketplace which would produce more supply which would be a good thing which would cause rates to go up in that sector.
The other side of the equation is queuing to itself.
So that has a definitive end to it at the end of June.
Once the Fed stops buying basically all the 2 to 10-year treasuries out of the marketplace and holding them on their balance sheet where we get no use of them that will again create supply.
But it is something that I'm looking as not a second quarter item.
We're looking to those sort of exacerbation items not being corrected if you will until the third quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
First now that short-term rates have come in again more recently just be curious to get your thoughts on kind of Money Market fund flows across the industry.
And do you think we could see kind of a second wave of redemptions as investors maybe go back to bank deposit accounts? Or do you feel like most of that money has already left the fund at this point? At this point the rates that the customer was actually experienced haven't really changed all that much.
So a lot of those funds were at 0 or 1 and have remained at that kind of a level.
And if even before we're interested in higher rates they have moved off.
So we haven't seen a meaningful wave of departures that's why we go through the ranges and the averages of the assets that we're looking at.
Now certainly there's some amount of re-risking which we've alluded to but it's really hard to detect in terms of a movement of these short-term rates.
And Mike just to add to that the prime funds have not been impacted in the same way that Debbie mentioned by the -- in particular by the treasury situation.
And so we have seen during the quarter some shifting actual increase in the prime fund assets it's been more of a government fund impact.
So there is -- remains federal yield prospects in the prime money funds.
Got it.
Okay.
And then assuming short-term rates start to move higher at some point down the road how do you see the dynamic playing out where maybe you have some institutional redemptions just given kind of higher rates in the spot market but at the same time maybe a step up in inflows from retail clients just given the higher yields? Kind of net-net how would you expect that dynamic to play out? Well there will be less of each of those factors you just mentioned because of the reasons we just talked about namely that those that were really driven or incented by whatever the yield was have already made their moves.
And so that's why we've been talking on the last several calls about a kind of leveling from our perspective in the assets of Money Market funds that we have.
And you see it bouncing around a couple of billion dollar figure on a gross basis and on an average basis and that's about as good as I could go in terms of a future look at things.
Historically the comments that we've made have been that throughout these cycles we end up with higher highs and higher lows as we get through the cycles.
And so far over the last several quarters including this one we think that is playing out.
Okay.
And then just maybe a final question for Tom.
If we kind of backed out the effects of the Money Market fund fee waivers looks like your margins have been pretty consistently running in kind of the high-20% low-30% range over last few years across what has been a pretty volatile period.
So just looking ahead is there anything out there that could meaningfully move the margin in either direction or is it mostly just kind of a function of mix at this point? Did you say excluding the waivers? Yes.
Yes because obviously if the waivers come back things could improve.
But you've got to remember to go through and we got revenue and then we pay out distribution fees so what's the mix on that? But I don't see any dynamic to really answer your question on dynamic changes in the waivers situation.
Some pretty obvious things if equity and fixed income increase.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
Just on the equity side it looks like separate accounts.
You saw the improvement in the quarter.
I think you mentioned the 2 big drivers would be the strategic value and then MDT redemptions declining.
Yes I guess within the separate account any way to size those 2 impacts to the net flows? And then I guess just on the performance side it just seems like on the equities you gave 1 3 5 on average like only 25% or so the assets are out -- or the funds are outperforming.
So just any issues there anything that needs to be changed from like a personnel or is it just certain strategies under pressure but long term either the 5 or the 10-year still looks pretty good? Mike just on the flow composition the MDT strategies in total have about $3 billion of assets and about 2/3 of that would be -- actually more than 2/3 of it would be in separate accounts.
And to be clear there what we saw was a diminution in net redemptions in sequential quarters.
So those products are still negative from a flow standpoint but less so.
And that improvement would have been around $125 million of improvement.
The real story is the growth on the strategic value size and there the improvement in net flows would have been more like $250 million maybe a little less than that.
But we had if not our best quarter ever certainly one of the best in terms of both gross and net sales in that product.
It's very well positioned in a number of high-quality SMA platforms and it is clearly a strategy that's resonating with moderate re-risking activity that we see.
And in terms of the second question.
What drives those numbers in view of our size of $32 billion in equities and a $7-plus billion in the Kaufmann Fund.
When the Kaufmann Fund assets move from one category to another that really tilts those figures.
And so that's one point.
Now as regards to Kaufmann Fund on that point we remain committed to the fact that this group is excellent investors in selecting good stocks over the long haul.
The one fact I will give you that we’ve used with our independent directors and others is that there've been 22 rolling 3-year performance periods when since they started the fund.
And of those 22 rolling 3-year periods 14 of them have found the Kaufmann Fund in the first quartile while they've been in the fourth quartile 4 times and in the third quartile 3 times and almost never in the second quartile.
And what's going on here is that this team is dedicated to finding stocks they believe in for the long haul.
And it is also reminiscent of the time when we bought the fund in '01 coming off some relative tough performance in the late '90s and 2000.
And they snapped back quickly after the '01 technology breakdown.
So this is just the way that that Kaufmann Fund does their investing and the way it impacts our overall performance profile.
So we are certainly not looking at making any other changes there.
One item that was announced early this morning was that we did have a change in senior portfolio manager as the Capital Appreciation Fund with Jimmy Grefenstette joining Dean Kartsonas and now running that fund and that group into the future.
And then the other factor which we mentioned is the MDT and I don't have to repeat all of the articles you've read about what's happened to quant managers and the spring back that's happened so far this year that I went over in the remarks.
So that's pretty much a quick synopsis on your second question.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And just last one.
When I look at the revenue change and this is just sequentially we just ?[indiscernible] the fewer days and in the waivers.
And It looks like despite like the overall asset mix being more favorable in terms of long-term versus Money Market revenues were a bit lighter.
So it looks like maybe within the long-term products you have some shift going on in terms of different products different fees.
So I guess just in terms of like the fixed income complex if you can give us an insight on short duration if you're getting inflows there just what the fee rate on those products are for like versus the overall fixed income average.
And then changing in equity just on something like Kaufmann or Prudent Bear where you see some more volatility versus the overall average? It’s just more helpful in terms of when we're looking forward just what the -- where the fee rate's likely to head.
Sure Mike.
On composition and the changes would've been very modest in terms of looking at the blended overall realization rates.
But on fixed income it would be reflective of some of the shorter duration products and also growth in separate accounts as the margin of separate accounts for both equity and fixed income would generate lower fees than the funds.
On the equity side I would agree with where the spirit of your question across an array of equity products the Kaufmann and the Prudent Bear would be higher than say average fees and so decreases there would impact the realization rate of it.
Our next question is from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Crédit Suisse.
On the fee rate itself just a follow-up on the last question can you help us quantify what the change in either the fee rate was or the management fees were when you exclude the fee waiver? Because it looked like there was some deterioration in this quarter.
I was just wondering if you could just add a little more color on that.
In terms of change from say the prior quarter and looking at advisory fees it would've been about 1/2 of a basis point on equity and about 3/10 of a basis point on fixed income.
So again the changes would've been very modest.
And if you want to go through them further we could probably do that offline more effectively.
All right.
Perfect Ray.
And just kind of a follow up on capital management how you're looking at it at this point with kind of your debt levels and your cash flow and your cash? How should we think you use these proceeds for? Well we continue -- as Chris mentioned looking for acquisitions.
So that's our number one objective.
And of course we're going to continue to pay dividends and look at buying the shares back.
But we hope to use that in an acquisition.
Got it.
So really no change there? Okay.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Worthington JPMorgan Chase.
Sorry if you hit this but on the expense side you're able to keep compensation and other expenses flat or lower year-over-year.
And I guess my question is can you continue to hold expenses in check for the rest of 2011? And particularly on compensation what are the tactics you're using to really keep that from rising? Well a big portion of the comp is incentive-based and so we hope not to keep that in -- down because if it goes up it will be because we've had excellent sales and better performance than what we're projecting in there to calculate out what that number -- what we expect it will be.
So I'd like -- I'd sort of be polite but if like -- is it basically flat because performance is down and the bonus pool was down? Is that what's going on? Yes when we do our calculations we look at -- I mean there's a lot of things moving parts in there but we have to make a forecast for the year what we think all the parts add up to be the total.
And when it's -- when it’s the same as where it was last year's first quarter -- everything although each one of them is different kind of the same outlook.
And then on the kind of a nonlegal-based non-comp expense.
Again same thing it's like airline tickets are going up so travel I guess would be getting more expensive and yet you're holding the line on these other costs as well.
Possible that I kind of keep holding the line? We worked very diligent to manage things effectively on a cost basis.
We recognize the waiver situation that's going on and how it's affecting us and are trying to react to that where we can yet still allowing proper sales efforts and proper distribution and investing in the company.
All right.
And then just a modeling question.
How is the Money Market fee waiver revenue impact a 63.4 split between investment advisory and other service fees? The splits Ken was $36 million advisory fee and $27.5 million of other service fee.
Our next question is coming from the line of Roger Smith of Macquarie Bank.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the systemic risk.
Can you tell us how you're participating in these discussions and determining what is systematically important and to be -- like is that directly or are you basically utilizing the ICI or some other type of lobbying group to make your point about money markets not being a systemically important entity? Roger this is more or less an across-the-board exercise by us.
It involves me it involves other senior executives as Federated personally making pitches to the SEC to the FDIC.
Then it also involves participating on the committees and with the ICI.
It also involves writing extensive commentary letters which I think have been well respected and well received demonstrating our views that the criteria that have been established for designation are simply not applicable and really not met by Money Market funds specifically or mutual funds in general.
And it's primarily because none of these enterprises are on leverage.
There other reasons as well.
So if you check the records down in Washington you'll see us showing up periodically making this case because it's very important to us and to our investors.
Great.
And then I know it's still early but can you give us any kind of sense in how the sentiment of the view from the regulators is changing? Would you say that as you make this lobbying effort that you get the sense that they agree with you? Or are they not holding a poker face and you can't really tell? Or is there any kind of change that you can give us some idea about? I would say your characterization of poker face is the end result.
The cordiality respect and honest discussions though have been what we have experienced.
I think you can see in the press as well as anybody that there’re certain of the people who are on FSOC who want to designate a lot and then the treasury and the Fed basically saying designate a few.
And there were a number of speeches within the last weeks on those subjects.
Our own view is that if they designate anybody it will be a very very few.
And we don't think they will designate any Money Market funds or mutual funds but we don't control it and I wish I could say that all of our efforts -- you could reflect and say "Oh well boy we really won that one." But that's just not the way this works.
So we make our pitches.
We repeat the sounding joy.
We write it out in detail and we expect that the proper result will follow.
Great.
And this is my last question on this topic.
Is there any change in the argument by the people that want more systemic designations around the Money Markets or has the argument been the same all along? Is there any change on why they believe this business might be more systemically important? No there have been no new arguments.
It's like old friends.
And we look at it and say "Yes there was a challenge in the money market fund industry when reserves broke the buck." And that was addressed by the Treasury by the Fed with these liquidity features and by the SEC in how we did the Putnam transaction.
And how we did the Putnam transaction was basically infused into 2a-7 to make an industry solution that did not require federal money.
The liquidity bank that we have spoken of and I referred to in my remarks addressed the liquidity that was a private liquidity system that was requested by the President's Working Group.
And so we think that that addresses all the issues but that hasn't -- that really hasn't changed as the basic arguments.
Okay.
Great.
And then I just have one last question on the Fixed Income Mutual Fund business.
Can you give us an idea of what products -- and I might have missed this what products are actually gaining the traction? Because I'll tell you from the industry data that we get I would not have thought it would have been as good as it came out this quarter.
Well Roger we've seen interest in high-yield products and the short duration has had some slows as well.
On the alter short side we talk about outflows on the muni side and somewhat surprisingly there's been -- the muni alter short fund has had outflows that given its placement we feel like that just kind of get swept up into the general market sentiment about munis.
So it's still been the short duration the high yield and certain of the blended products.
Even as our for example the total returns fund that we mentioned has had a few of the lumpy outflows where people have done reallocation.
There continues to be a strong level of sales and other people entering into the product.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Lee of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Maybe follow-up question on capital management.
If I think back to your first special dividend 2-plus years ago it took down some leverage under the special dividend paid down debt for kind of the next 5 6 quarters or so announced another special dividend took down some debt.
And now here we are about 5 6 quarters later you've been amortizing down some debt.
Is it reasonable to assume that as we get the latter part of this year that you're thinking about a special dividend to pick up? Well Rob the way I'd answer is exactly how I answered the last question on that.
Our first choice is to look to grow through acquisitions and on the international side.
Gordy Ceresino is out traveling around searching.
But to come back to specifically your question we look at what are we going to do with our capital and have made those decisions like you pointed out at various times.
And if you want to call it eclectic we're always looking or trying to look for what's in the best interest of our shareholders and how to get them the best return.
And we paid 2 special dividends and thought that that was the proper thing to do for our shareholders.
We could come to that conclusion again.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
And maybe a question for Chris.
Can you maybe just update us on -- you talked a little bit on the call about your efforts in the DCIO market but maybe update us on some of your efforts through I guess I'll call it more traditional or other distribution channels.
I mean are you -- are there any particular platforms or places where you think you feel like you've had more success getting more products on the shelf? I know for a long time you spoke about Jones but I guess you haven't talked about that in a while but maybe just update us on kind of how you think your positioning is and some of the noted key -- other key distribution platforms and where some of your initiatives are to maybe improve it.
One of the biggest ones we already mentioned which was the $1.2 billion in capital preservation.
And that was with a major -- one of these major distributors.
And when you're looking at 700 new plans and 100 000 new participants that's a pretty good step up in basically what's available.
And I think what we're looking at here is opportunities in the broker-dealers space that increased number of our salespeople who are actually able to get their clients meaning the intervening broker-dealers to write $100 000 tickets.
And then another way to express that is doing more than just one particular mandate but doing 2 or 3.
And right now we're looking at an examination of the sales force to see how we can expand that a little bit to make that more possible.
And it's because some of the successes we've had.
If you look at our equity sales they're running comfortably above 500 a month on average.
And back in '08 and '07 they were in the low 400s a month.
So we're looking at that as a pretty good situation.
The new products that we've come out with have also give us some enthusiasm.
The results to the low duration product and the end constrained bond funds have been pretty good and that's why we've opened up an advertising campaign.
If you check in your investment news or your Barron's you'll start seeing ads from Federated which you hadn't seen for a while and that's all part of the effort.
Our next question is coming from the line of William Katz of Citigroup A couple of questions here.
Just on the fee waiver discussion you've been very optimistic about rates for a bit of time and advantaged have been wrong for bit of time as well.
Any thoughts of hedging the risk at this point in time if you're wrong and rates and policy tends to be a little looser than you anticipate? No.
No.
Okay second question is as the discussion here about the top line seems to be somewhat cautious in my view just given the adverse mix shift and the lack of really unique growth for the company.
Is there a chance there you might have the opportunity to take out expenses if the top line earnings power continues to be an issue? Well from my look at it we spent the last couple of years when the market was challenging to deal with -- a lot of expenses in the company that didn't go far to cut into the core of things and we're investing and continuing to divesting in  like the new products that we've done.
And technologies and websites and things that we need to be prepared for when the market comes back stronger and when we come back stronger.
So my look at it is we're sitting here with a pretty good expense profile and ready to reap the benefits of growth.
Okay.
And just my last topic it's just around capital.
I was just curious if you could talk about -- you've been mentioning non-US prop you have for a bit of time as well.
Just sort of wondering what might be the holdup at this point in time is it pricing is it the right fit is it just sort of -- is it just where are you still looking in terms of geographic? And then separately how might you finance that? And I asked that question in that if there's no deal and you want to contemplate a special dividend by levering the balance sheet is that something that you’re willing to strategically risk in light of just the ongoing regulatory I'm sorry you ran both the Money Market business and systematic risks.
Thanks.
Bill I'll talk about the international acquisition ideas and Tom will talk about the financing there.
The concept of holdup isn't exactly how I would describe what's going on there.
What we have discovered no surprise to us really is that it takes a long time to develop good relationships to be in the right spot at the right time to do a deal that is a cultural fit that meets our criteria.
So this is not just a power shopping deal where we want to get something checked off.
We want to look and get something that is going to really work for the long term.
And that has proven more challenging than perhaps we had thought going in.
But the pattern of it is very similar and the attitude we have is very similar to that which we had domestically.
So we continue to look for it.
And I don't think that it -- in the list of things that you mentioned like "Oh is it pricing? No this isn't pricing." It's finding the right group with the right culture.
And I don't think even when we get there that the pricing will really be the issue.
Nor do I think it will be the financing which Tom can talk about.
All right Bill a year ago we took out our $425 million loan from the bank 5-year deal.
And what we said at the time was we're raising that we like where our rates were and we wanted to have the capital.
We did not -- we have pretty significant amount of the dollars that we raised still on our balance sheet and invested through CD and other investments.
And I went through with Rob what would we consider a dividend or share buybacks or acquisitions.
And our answer to those are yes.
It doesn't mean that we have a plan to change the fact that we wanted to raise money for what I called risk management to have the capital here.
It was not fun to go through those couple of years and try to talk about borrowing.
And so to have it already borrowed as a finance guy to have the money available for what our business people want to do is part of what I view my job is.
So if we do come to conclusion to use up a lot of that I would still want to have the view that we have capital available to do the things that we want to do to grow the company.
Our next question is from the line of Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America Just coming back to the issue of expense control if it's not too much.
Clearly it's been really strong for this side from that variable comp which I guess is influenced by other things like performance.
Is it possible that when fee waivers begin to come off you'll ramp up some of the controllable expenses? Are the projects you've deferred which you think you'll need to accelerate? In other words how should we think about the returning revenue? And how much of it drops to the bottom line other than the distribution offset? Yes just let me go to the distribution.
And you can do your tax rate and your margins on that and figure it out pretty readily.
Yes other than the distribution are there other things that are sort of pent-up that you will need to fund.
Yes Cynthia we have a technology committee that goes through and gets back enormous technology requests and we go through a prioritization and processing and have actually the business people in each group determine their own priority and then if there's a real problem we send -- we have the tech committee decide what we're going to do.
And there is always -- and there has always been pent-up demand there.
You follow the systems in communications line we haven't really cut that.
And we continue to invest in there we think it's just -- it has the right feel to it if we had absolute demands where we had to get stuff done and we would either cut something out as we -- that's how we've done it -- or not cut it out but delay it until the next time around.
So I don't feel like there's a big time pent up demand of things that we haven't done.
And I don't expect it -- the waivers come back and we'll have any kind of explosion on expenses.
We are as Ray mentioned we're testing -- or Chris mentioned we're testing out some advertising on a dividend strategy fund and if that works well we could do more of that.
So that could be an area that would increase.
And we hope we'd match that up increase because we saw successes with it.
Cynthia I would like to add a little bit.
Regardless of the margin -- of the waiver moves in this first quarter we did have a modest expansion in some of our institutional sales efforts.
We've hired 2 of the 3 that we wanted to add.
And this is basically calling on the research gatekeepers the consultants which kind of allows the sales reps to focus on the sponsors and then these guys focus on the consultants and that kind of a deal.
So there will be isolated efforts on the distribution side where we think we can expand.
And to us there are some quote pent-up needs like I was talking about in response to some earlier questions.
In terms of other distribution opportunities that we may see.
But it isn't like oh well we had deferred maintenance or something like that.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then some modeling question.
It looks like the tax rate was a bit lower this quarter but I wasn't sure because of the one-time expense.
But what kind of tax rate are you expecting? We really haven't changed there Cynthia.
It was pretty much right on 37%.
And we've said 37% to 38% that we'd kind of hold in that range.
Okay.
And then just to clarify on the fixed income flows.
It sounds like you're having outflows from the fixed income funds but you're expecting good inflows with the separate accounts.
And is that difference just because the separate accounts are more weighted toward strategic value? Strategic value is leading the pack there.
But it isn't the -- that isn't the only area.
The product mix is much different Cynthia in terms of funds and separate accounts.
So the biggest thing you would point to as strategic value would have a higher weighting relative to other strategies in the separate accounts as compared to the funds.
Okay.
Great.
And then lastly just circling back to the regulatory questions.
What sort of mileposts are coming up that we should be looking for? And what kind of timing are you expecting? I wish I would know the mileposts.
I do not.
And I can't say exactly what we'd have.
I heard rumors that they'll do some designations maybe in the summer but I don't have a firm understanding of exactly what the timeframes will be.
Our next question is from the line of Roger Freeman of Barclay's Capital Just a couple of follow-ups.
Actually just on the regulation Chris I mean I guess on milestones it looks like at least not as far as the potential liquidity bullets that the SEC is doing a round table here soon May 10.
And then ICIs got a big summit coming up on the 16th.
I guess on that topic I mean how do you -- is the most likely outcome maybe -- or can you weight the outcome between having a liquidity full and ultimately nothing.
And separately whether the whole designation issue factors in here i.e.
is there sort of more push for this if there a Money Market funds that are designated systemically important versus not? Well as I told you I don't think they're going to designate any money market funds.
And it's very difficult for me to hypothesize or make book on what comes out of these sessions.
I mean we've had a lot of study at the President's Working Group the responses.
And there are some good people going to be testifying.
I read the drafts of the testimonies for these meetings that you're coming up.
And I think we made some outstanding points consistent with what I've said here before.
So all of this information it doesn't change where I think it comes out.
But again I don't control the outcome and obviously we're our big Money Market fund providers and so we think we have this thing pretty well wrapped and understood.
So I would hope and expect that they do the liquidity bank.
But I can say that they will.
if they do that I guess the proposal is that that'll get built up through payments that you and others make into it and likely pass on through fees to the end customer.
But given the economics in a Money Market business right now depending on how long that ends up running I mean is that even something that could be passed through or is that something that firms like yours have to absorb? Well when you say pass-through the structure of it is that the advisor would put in in our case I guess about $17 million to start with and that can't be passed through because there's no mechanism for passing through.
And then the funds themselves would put some number of basis points in which comes out of the yield.
And there you have to be careful to maintain the proper spread between government funds agency funds and prime funds.
If at the end of the day you really want to have corporate issues to be able to issue commercial paper and have Money Market funds participate in that in other words enhance resiliency of money funds.
So there's no way to recapture any kind of money.
Now today when there's hardly any yield available yes that makes all of these things little more problematic.
But getting them in at this point is probably a worthy idea because in it gives you time to get the structure set up for when the rates eventually do go up.
And we're talking about long-term solutions and long-term responses much the same as we did when we were enthusiastic about the changes to 2a-7 because we're in this business for the long haul and our clients have demonstrated overwhelmingly that they're in the funds for the long haul.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just Chris the worst -- as you kind of kind of look at that step down there the incrementally worse economics around the Money Markets at present do you think that changes the decision tree at all with the skilled players that might accelerate anymore to want to get out of this business? As we said before in this Roger if an individual group controls the redemption where the right to redeem or knows the people who can control the right to redeem and can influence them then you can run a Money Market fund for a long time.
But I think every one of these moves just adds to the burden that money funds have to carry.
And therefore like it or not enhances the oligopolization of the business.
But it never does it in such a way that it creates an avalanche or a cliff were all of a sudden oh well now everyone has to go do something.
It hasn't happened in that yet and I don't think that's the way it will go.
But there are a steady stream of people we're talking to some now who are looking to exit the Money Fund business and I think it'll just be a continuing effort.
Okay.
Last question.
Coming to your -- back to your comments around some re-risking on the part of investor base I'm looking at the Prudent Bear fund actually looks like it's kind of better flows at least March looks like it's actually positive.
Does that suggest at all any increase in risk aversion? The Prudent Bear fund is a unique fund.
And it is best sold when it is sold as a 5% or 10% part permanent part long-term part of an existing portfolio.
And to-date a lot of people tend to use that fund with higher percentages or bigger amounts based on where they think -- or where they think the market is going or where it has just been.
And so it's pretty difficult to make a direct assessment to re-risking from the flows on the Pru Bear fund.
If you just -- it's just tough to do it now.
We make those judgments more based on the commentary of the sales force backed up by flows in some of the other products and talking to the sales leadership and the sales individuals that rather than specialty the those on Prudent Bear.
Our last question is from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs On the fee waivers.
If I look at the sequential change in operating income relative to the sequential change in revenue it looks like the dynamics -- I'm trying to understand the dynamics there of the operating income delta versus the change in the fee waiver revenue? And how does that relate to the 33% uptick in the fee rate sequentially? You mean just go through the numbers in the press release where -- are you asking how much of this impact is from the waiver? Or how much is from everything else? I don't follow your question.
So yes.
The question is when you think about the seventh the guidance on the fee waiver's moving up is there a change in -- or what's accounting for the change in the operating income delta versus the change in the fee waiver revenue some sort of that margin or the operating income loss per dollar of lost fee waiver revenue.
Are you sharing more the burden with the channel? Is there a mixed shift that's impacting it? Okay.
The repo rate that are down are exactly what's calling it and we're either sharing it with the channel just as always.
It's lower rates and we're sharing like Chris said earlier that the customer's not really having too much of an impact.
It's impacting us.
Okay.
And your share of that share so to speak that's not changing? No.
I mean it's moved around a little bit Marc but within a relatively narrow bandwidth and plus or minus around 75% depending on the mix of the product but we haven't seen any significant change there.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Well that concludes our call and we thank you for joining us today.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you very much for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Management Co.
Second Quarter 2011 Quarterly Earnings Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Raymond Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Co.
Thank you Mr.
Hanley you may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated CEO; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
We also have Debbie Cunningham the Chief Investment Officer for Federated's Money Market Group who will give us some remarks on money market conditions and participate in the Q&amp;A.
During today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different from the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review our risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you and good morning.
I will start with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance before turning the call over to Tom to discuss the financials.
Looking first to cash management.
Money market average assets decreased from the prior quarter due mainly to tax seasonality in separate account assets.
Money market mutual fund average assets were nearly the same as the prior quarter.
Our market share remains steady at around 8.8%.
Debbie will comment later on recent money market conditions including the impact of the debt ceiling and European banks.
Tom will address related fee waivers.
On the regulatory front money funds continue to be an active topic of discussion based on comments from the SEC and the FSOC.
The regulators believe that further changes should be considered and are under review.
We are unable to make any predictions on any particular outcome or a particular timeline.
We do note however that the industry issuers and investors in money funds are opposed to a fluctuating NAV.
In our view there is no evidence that a floating NAV would positively impact investor redemption patterns or improve the resiliency of money funds.
In fact we believe fluctuating NAVs would have the opposite effect.
Capital buffers are not necessarily responsive to the severe liquidity crisis that negatively impacted money funds and other investors in 2008.
Our initial reaction to ideas like the Squam Lake capital buffer before the results of the voluminous studies necessary to adequately research such a concept with this level of complexity is that it's probably not a practical solution.
One outcome could end up being too compressed or even eliminate the spread between prime and government fund yields which would be just another way of ending prime funds which is not the goal of the entire operation.
We believe that money funds were meaningfully and sufficiently strengthened by last year's extensive revisions to 2a-7.
And we're seeing those changes help now as we deal with the noise created around the perception of risk and prime money funds from European bank exposure.
We remain favorably disposed to improvements that would enhance the resiliency of money funds by addressing the primary issue faced during the financial crisis namely a market-wide liquidity crunch.
Now turning to our equities business we have 6 actively managed strategies in a variety of styles that have top quartile 3-year records that are well positioned for growth: Capital income Prudent Bear International Leaders International Strategic Value Kaufmann Large Cap and Strategic Value Dividend.
In particular Strategic Value Dividend strategy is well-suited for investor demand for high-quality dividend income.
It continues to produce strong flows with over $1.2 billion of year-to-date net inflows to funds and separate accounts combined.
The international version of this strategy reached its 3-year anniversary during the second quarter and achieved 5 stars as it ranked in the top 13% of its peer group for the trailing 3 years.
This strategy along with the InterContinental and International Leader Strategies provide a solid position in international equities with positive flows in the second quarter and lots of room for growth.
Overall equity fund net flows were negative in April and May but positive in June and slightly negative here in the first 3 weeks of July.
Flows in equity separate accounts were negative mainly due to a $315 million redemption from an absolute return mandate an area where we recently changed portfolio managers.
Net sales of the Strategic Value Dividend strategy were solidly positive.
And we saw another quarter of lower net redemptions in the MDT Quant strategies for SMAs which improved from about minus $300 million in Q4 to minus $200 million in Q1 minus $77 million in Q2.
On the Kaufmann Fund.
The Kaufmann Fund performance improved in the second quarter as the fund ranked in the top third of its Lipper category similar in Morningstar.
The Kaufmann Large Cap Fund ranked in the top decile of its category and the Small Cap Fund ranked in the top 14% for the quarter.
The core Kaufmann team and investment process remained intact.
The team's approach is to focus on high-quality growth companies and use extensive proprietary research and a "bottom's up" style with high conviction and low turnover.
Obviously a long-term approach.
So that if we looked at the 22-rolling 3-year performance periods beginning with 1986 the fund was ranked in the first quartile 14 times and was ranked in the fourth quartile only 4 times 3 of which were in the '98 '99 and 2000 period.
Interestingly past periods of underperformance were followed by substantial outperformance.
Turning to fixed income.
Fund flows were negative in April and May and then turned positive in June.
These flows are positive through the first 3 weeks of July led by the Total Return Bond Fund and the return to positive muni fund flows.
During the second quarter Total Return Bond Fund showed modest outflows due largely to a couple of significant asset allocation changes made by investors in April and May that combined for about $360 million in lumpy redemptions.
Fund returned to modestly positive inflows for June and into July.
We also saw reduced outflows in municipal bond funds during the second quarter and inflows in July as I mentioned.
The strategies with positive second quarter flows include Total Return Bond -- Total Return Government Fund high yield international and stable value.
We also add solid inflows into 2 recently launched funds our Federated Unconstrained Bond Fund and our Federated Floating Rate Strategic Income Fund.
Turning to investment performance.
Looking at quarter-end Lipper rankings for Federated's equity funds 27% of rated assets are in the first or second quarter over the last year 38% 3 years 24% 5 years 80% 10 years.
For bond assets Bond Fund assets the comparable first and second quartile percentages are 29% 1 year 50% 3 years 70% 5 years and 75% for 10 years.
Looking at Morningstar rated funds 25% of rated assets are in the 4 and 5-star products and as of 6/30 and 82% are in 3 and 4 and 5-star product.
At quarter end we had 10 equity funds with Morningstar top quartile 1-year performance including International Strategic Value Dividend Capital Income Asset Allocation InterContinental and International Leaders Funds along with several MBP funds.
We also had 7 equity funds with top quartile 3-year records and 7 funds with top quartile 5-year records.
As of July 27 managed assets were approximately $349 billion including $265 billion in money market $31 billion in equities $53 billion in fixed income including our liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $237 billion.
So far in July money market fund assets have ranged between $237 billion and $241 billion and have averaged $239 billion.
Looking at some of our distribution highlights year-to-date gross sales of equity funds and separate accounts on a combined basis increased about 19% compared to the same period in 2010.
We continue to invest in distribution capabilities and are in the process of adding 12 new sales personnel to the broker-dealer sales division.
We are encouraged by sale success in this area over the last 3 years.
Since 2008 broker-dealer sales have increased from approximately $6.4 billion to $12 billion.
And the number of advisors doing significant business with us has increased from 29 000 and 35 000.
The added resources will enable us to penetrate additional mid-sized broker-dealer firms.
We've also recently hired 3 new Consultant Relation Reps in our institutional area to broaden our reach within the institutional consultants and plan sponsors.
We are also modestly investing in advertising with an initial focus on the Strategic Value Dividend strategy.
We were in print and Web campaign advertisements over the last couple of months.
We've been pleased with the results and plan to run additional ads later in the year.
Regarding acquisitions we remain focused on developing an alliance to further advance our business outside of the United States.
As we work on this we are also having success abroad for cash management.
During the second quarter we added $2 billion in new business from a large offshore client.
We're also working on 2 new money market portal opportunities in the U.K.
and have received approval in Ireland for our sterling-denominated money fund that will launched in Q3.
In the U.S.
we're actively seeking consolidation deals.
We recently completed the 2 deals we announced last quarter with the EquiTrust Funds and the Tributary International Equity Fund adding about $600 million in new assets in a variety of strategies.
Now for the financials I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Chris.
And as Chris mentioned conditions for money market funds continue to be challenging in the second quarter and into the third quarter here.
Money fund yield waivers reduced pretax income by $19.4 million for the quarter compared to $13.1 million in the prior quarter.
The line items impacted are covered in the press release.
Yields decreased during the quarter which led to waivers exceeding the April calculation based on then current market conditions.
Yields have generally trended lower as the market deals with the debt-ceiling issue and concerns over European debt.
Based on recent market conditions and asset levels these waivers could reduce income by approximately $23 million in Q3 for Federated.
More recently we've seen an uptick in rates for repo and T-bills which impact waiver levels in the government funds.
Expect these rates to move off of the extremely low levels in the first couple of weeks of July as we move towards some resolution of the debt-ceiling issue.
We have seen some upward movement over the last couple of days.
And Debbie will review this in a few minutes.
Looking forward we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields will likely reduce the impact of these waivers by about 1/3 from the current levels.
And a 25 basis-point increase would reduce the impact by about 2/3.
Looking at total revenue the decrease from the prior quarter was due to higher money fund waivers partially offset by one additional day in the quarter and by higher equity and fixed income-related revenues.
We continue to properly manage expenses and continue to invest for growth.
The operating margin was higher in Q2 than in the prior quarter calculated before the litigation settlement expense booked in its first quarter.
The operating margin was also higher compared to Q2 2010 calculated before unusual items related to insurance recovery and impairment charges.
We amended and restated our term credit facility in the second quarter to revise the facility contained to $200 million revolver to replace the previous facility which was scheduled to expire later this year.
On the term portion we were able to lower interest expense and we expect to save about $8 million in interest expense over the life of the facility.
We expect interest expense in the third quarter will be approximately $3.6 million down from $4.2 million in Q2.
Looking at our balance sheet cash and marketable securities totaled $294 million at quarter end.
This combined with expected additional cash flows from operation and availability under present debt facility provides us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as well as the ability to fund related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new product seeds and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
Before we take questions we'd like to have Debbie comment on the recent market in money market world.
Thanks Tom.
I thought I'd cover just 3 quick topics: our outlook and what's happening from a short-term rate perspective what's the current state of affairs from a European bank exposure perspective and then the most -- the newest item of concern is that the debt-ceiling negotiations for the U.S.
Treasury.
From a rate outlook perspective if you look at the yield curve for money market securities today versus a year -- or a quarter ago it's relatively steeper but it's steeper for the wrong reason.
It's steeper because the shortest end of the yield curve has actually lost a few basis points in yield.
So one to 3 months is basically 2 to 3 basis points more expensive with lower yields than where we were a quarter ago.
While the back-end of the yield curve which nobody's really buying too much at this point 6 to 12 months has remained flat.
Our expectation from an outlook perspective for Fed tightening has been pushed into 2012 and that's reflective of the slower growth that we've been experiencing from an economic perspective.
We do continue to believe though that there will be some yield curve steepening in the second half of 2011 with the back end of the yield curve backing up to some degree and more opportunity in the marketplace to buy some better relative value positions as the second half of 2011 proceeds.
From a European bank perspective a couple of things have happened in the recent times.
The stress test for those banks by the EU has been completed with some amount of success afforded to that completion.
The package for Greek debt restructuring has also been reached and although it is not a quick fix in the marketplace we never thought it would be this was going to take up to a decade to proceed smoothly and get completed.
But it has received fairly good market impact.
And by that I look at the spreads that we see on the European banks and again we use 22 different banks highest-quality banks within the eurozone high-quality ratings diverse underlying the -- of their loan portfolio and effectively these banks have stayed the same from a spread perspective in the marketplace to widening maybe 2 to 3 basis points.
From a Federated prime fund exposure we have currently and will still maintain are still maintaining somewhere in the neighborhood of between 40% and 45% of our prime funds to exposure with these European banks.
Again we have no direct exposure to the Greek banks but the European banks that we use do have some exposure on a secondary basis to the sovereign Greek nation.
And again we're continuing to be comfortable with the ownership of these banks.
We post that on our Website on an every 2-week basis so you can get the most quarterly information there when you're looking for it.
The third item is the debt-ceiling issue and the potential concerns in the marketplace about a default downgrade and then sort of looking at just the market quick conditions and the liquidity in the marketplace.
From a default perspective we think this is a very remote likelihood if we require it if it did actually did happen from our perspective.
Fund Board of Directors action the -- we would need to make as an advisor a recommendation to the Board of Directors based on the underlying credit quality of the nation itself market valuations the fact that this is not an insolvency issue but rather a willingness to pay and a political theater issue.
All of those at this point would lead that if we had to come to such a situation our recommendation would be to maintain the ownership of these technically defaulted instruments at that point.
Again thinking that this is a very remote possibility.
On the other side of the equation is the downgrade.
There's been lines drawn in the sand from the rating agencies as to what to expect from a debt-cut perspective in order for the AAA ratings to be maintained.
We think this is less remote obviously than a default but still we don't think this is probable.
First thing to note is the downgrade is on a potential basis for long-term ratings only not short-term ratings.
So nothing would be affected from the short-term ratings perspective for the securities that are held within money market fund.
What this would do is basically raise the level off which spreads are measured.
Treasury securities are still the largest with the most volume most liquid as highest quality instruments in the world not surpassed by Johnson &amp; Johnson not surpassed by Wal-Mart and some of the others in the marketplace that have been noted.
And certainly not surpassed by bank deposits where in fact the backing of those banks comes from the U.S.
government.
So these would still maintain their liquidity in the marketplace but with the price volatility that would be a little bit more stringent than what it has been in the past and at a base level off of which the rest of the market would price at slightly higher than it is today.
From a Federated fund perspective despite the outlook for negative potential downgrade for the long-term ratings for the U.S.
government debt the Federated money market funds have been affirmed with their AAA ratings.
So even if the U.S.
debt was downgraded to the AA double AA+ AA- whatever would happen to be at this point the AAA ratings for Federated funds would be maintained.
From a market conditions perspective we're looking at Treasury Bill Rates that are actually finally paying us something in the context of this negotiation and the extended time period that it's taking.
So and perversely it has a little bit of a positive effect overall on the underlying yields of our portfolios the treasury curve which has been flat to negative out to 3 months just a week and a half today -- a week and a half ago now stands anywhere between 9 and 15 basis points.
So we're actually getting paid for taking the risk of ownership of treasury securities during the months of August September and October.
Lastly from a Federated funds perspective and a flow standpoint you noticed on the July assets the assets from money market funds are not markedly changed and we are not seeing clients moving with negative outflows due to these issues.
A few are but certainly not in any widespread form and not in any way shape or form reflective of any kind of a problem.
The liquidity in these products is high the weighted average maturities is low positions ourselves well for what we think is the second half steepening of the yield curve.
And it provides ourselves with a lot of comfort for our shareholders in the context of liquidity that might be needed.
With that I'll turn it back to Ray.
Yes we'll open up for questions now please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
I understand that you're limiting your comments around regulation.
However shouldn't the risk of certain regulations be impacting overall capital management decisions in the near-term? And I'm just kind of relating this question to your comments on M&amp;A and also kind of the lower levels in that cash you hold versus some of your peers.
So in terms of M&amp;A the strategy that we have of doing both consolidation deals and international deals we do not feel ought to be impacted by regulatory ideas.
We've been looking at these ideas for several years now and it is a constant situation where because money market funds are not perfect people keep coming up with ideas.
And there's a lot more ideas that people could come up with that will still be studied.
And so I would say that it would be wise for somebody like Federated to not allow that to restrain us from moving forward.
And we don't think they're going to be doing anything that would kill the money market fund business in any event.
All of the ideas are always couched in terms of study more and then even the FSOC recently mentioned things like in order to increase stability market discipline and investor confidence things should be studied.
And I think when the verdict comes in of all of the studies you will find the money market funds standing there though they are in there imperfect position withstanding the resiliency demonstrating the resiliency they have to customers and in the marketplace.
So that would be how I would look at the issue of money market fund regulation versus M&amp;A activity.
I'll let Tom handle the other part of your question.
Craig right now if you look at our balance sheet we really have net debt of somewhere around $100 million and we have a revolver availability and we certainly have an excellent bank group that is ready willing and able to increase our debt levels if we need to for an acquisition or for any other reason that you might think.
So having flexibility is one of the things that we want to maintain here and we look through and you know we've paid special dividends in the past.
And we've purchased shares back larger at sometimes and smaller at other times.
And we will factor all those things in with what's going on in today's environment.
Our next question comes from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> First just to kind of follow up on the regulatory environment.
Chris I understand you don't think floating NAVs are the answer but it does seem like the regulators are leaning toward instituting some incremental changes.
So just be curious to get your take on what proposals maybe seem more likely now that in the proposed liquidity bank doesn't seem to have all that much support? Well it's very very hard.
As I said there are much for us to make a judgment about which one of these things can work when we don't initially perceive their workability.
They didn't like the sort of polite capital ideas that Fidelity had with 40 or 50 basis points of buffer.
They didn't like the liquidity bank which took care of the major problem that occurred in 2008 namely liquidity of the whole system.
And so they get down to ideas which have not shown themselves to be workable.
Several percentage points of capital is neither economic nor viable in terms of maintaining the existence of prime funds.
So it's really hard for me to try and say oh which one of these things is ahead of the others.
If you do however look at some of the phrases they've used they talk about something called deterrence to redemption.
I don't know what exactly they mean by that that's a quote out of FSOC.
But if what they are talking about are some pretty legitimate ideas that we think could work for example the way we did the Putnam deal back in the day was that the Putnam board decided to hit pause on redemptions for a week and then turned the whole fund over to us.
And there was plenty of liquidity in the system because the Fed opened up the windows to buy good paper.
So notice there was no credit maneuver here it was all on liquidity.
Well if you give the board the right to do that without forcing a liquidation that would be an interesting one.
Another one on that would be well what about redemption in kind it's been discussed many times.
And there's an example of a fund the AMR fund who basically said they were going to do a redemption in kind and that ended the redemptions.
I don't know if that's what they have in mind or not.
And one other idea which was put out early on that had to do with this was to simply say if you run into reserve fund then take the 3% and set that aside and give everybody else daily liquidity of par on the 97% of the fund that's there.
And proceed down that road.
And maybe that's a what they mean by deterrence to redemption.
But at this point there's a lot of work that has to be done if they're thinking about doing the things that Squam Lake has been talking about.
L.P.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe a question for Debbie.
Doesn't sound like it but are you maybe repositioning your money market fund portfolios just to get more liquid in front of a potential step-up in redemptions related to the issues here in the U.S.
and then presumably that would put some additional pressure on yields which could push the waivers even higher? So just curious to see if you think that dynamic is playing out? Well we have become more liquid.
You'll see higher overnight and 7-day liquidity positions within our portfolios.
As well as shorter weighted-average maturities which is also reflective of that additional liquidity.
Not so much because of concern out of shareholder redemption but it plays nicely into sort of our strategy of thinking that later in the year we're going to see better yield curve opportunities and have better relative value decisions that can be made at that point.
What is actually also kind of interesting at this point when I was mentioning what's happening from a Treasury Bill perspective a lot of the reasons why we weren't investing and there were periods of time during the month of July when we actually just had cash in our government portfolios because all that was available to buy at that point in time in the marketplace for the duration of securities that we were looking for were at 0 to negative yield.
So it seemed like less risky of a strategy to just simply leave it in cash.
That is not the case with today's portfolios.
And that's a reflection of the fact that many who are sitting on the sidelines or were in our market from a cash perspective have left as such when those investors have left the marketplace yields on Treasury and repo securities have started to lift.
What had been overnight Treasury and mortgage-backed repo rates of one in 3 basis points pretty consistently during the month of June and early July turned into something that's more like 9 to 15 basis points.
What had been 0 to negative yields on 3 months and under Treasury Bills are now anywhere from 9 to 15 basis points.
So as I was saying before a little bit perversely in this case our liquidity position and our shorter weighted-average maturity which generally speaking in a market that is not yet experiencing a rising rate environment would as you ask cause rates to be lower cause yields on the funds to be lower.
In fact though due to market conditions that are current that's not the case.
You'll have seen if you looked at our reported deals over the course of this week they've been basically rising each day.
L.P.</strong> And then just a final question for Tom could you just talk about the economic impact related to some of these initiatives in terms of hiring new sales people and maybe the pick-up in advertising? Yes the -- if we --it's more than just the salespeople.
There's some back-office people that go along with that.
Probably for the next year from now that's roughly independent on when we're able to fill them.
That's somewhere around the $2 million cost item.
So when they're fully in it's roughly a $3 million per year number.
The advertising probably for the rest of the year will be somewhere around $1 million or so.
Which is about the same run rate that we were at in the first half of the year so.
Our next question comes from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Can you talk about the decline in the amortization cost this quarter the amortization the deferred commissions fell meaningfully and I know the trend has been down but it fell a bunch more in 2Q.
And then on the amortization of intangibles that fell a lot too.
I think in 1Q you adjusted SunTrust but it seemed to get you back to kind of the run rate where you've been for the last couple of years so color there would be helpful too.
Ken it's Ray.
On the deferred sales commission amortization as you know we did financing arrangements there and they had defined lives and one of the tranches from that past financing rolled off and so you can go with that new number as a run rate.
And on the intangibles we also completed amortization on an acquisition-related intangible so that rolled off.
And then the other factor was that SunTrust in Q1 as you pointed out.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then on the fee waivers the noncontrolling interest that had a pretty big impact this quarter so what is the nature of the noncontrolling interest and it more than doubled from last quarter even though kind of the gross revenue and distribution impact was kind of less than 25% each so why are the proportions off so much? The noncontrolling interest essentially is similar to the way the distribution expense would work in that if we're not collecting fees then we would have a lower distribution expense and we would have a lower distribution through the noncontrolling interest line item.
So it's really the same dynamic.
As to the proportions it has to do with the underlying asset mix that would feed that noncontrolling interest line being weighted more to government product.
And so it's relative lower yields it would've pushed that up a bit.
But it's the same kind of dynamic as you see above the line.
Okay.
And then I guess lastly maybe for Debbie how are the money market funds performing? The reason I ask is I think in the last quarter you'd kind of talked about a view where in a quantitative tightening would begin -- could begin in 3Q reverse repos in 3Q through tightening by year end.
I guess does that view actually have an impact on the way the money market funds are invested? And I don't know how quickly things can be repositioned but did the view have an impact on performance? And is that -- is there any impact from this? I guess I'm kind of fishing on just how performance is in these funds? Sure.
If you look at our muni and our prime funds they're all on average in the top quartile performance.
Our government funds are probably in the top third slightly lower than the prime and the munis.
And that's simply a reflection of less opportunity in the marketplace and less possible items for them to actually invest in at this point.
The yield curve has been extremely flat.
And so whether you are at 30 days 40 days or 50 days didn't too much make a lot of difference on a performance basis during the second quarter.
We think that in the second half it will start to make a little bit of difference.
We are shorter as I said at this point and have what I would call left some powder dry with the expectation that although as I said we pushed our outlook for Fed tightening into the 2012 time period.
And along with that sort of the quantitative tightening cycle beginning but we do think the anticipation of that in the context of a continued growing economy although on a slower growth path we'll start to see some yield curve opportunities with the buy -- a bit of the back end of that yield curve steepening out to some degree in the second half and giving us a little bit more opportunity for that short paper that we have in there that we'd like to place further on the curve but just don't feel like it's quite right on an opportunistic basis.
The outlook though really has not caused us any problems from a performance basis the funds haven't been penalized in that form.
Our next question comes from Roger Freeman with Barclays Capital.
I guess I wanted to just come back to the rates in the money market space for a second just trying to understand a couple of things.
On the one hand you're talking about the yield having moved lower in the third quarter and guiding the higher waivers.
But just -- the T-bills are higher and I was just looking at LIBOR too 3 months and overnight it's basically flat 3Q to 2Q.
So wondering how does dynamic shake out to a down? Sure.
What we're giving you with current market rates in short-term bill market conditions and overnight repo conditions we have not used for our projections for third quarter waivers.
We've used more of what we saw at the beginning of July the beginning to the middle of July.
This is recent this is over the course of the last week and a half where we've seen short-term and treasury rates start to move north.
And even LIBOR starts to tick up even just fractions of a basis point at this point but starting to move at least in a higher direction.
So if this holds you'll see the yield start to go upwards and be reflective of those short-term rates.
If in fact this is only a result of uncertainty in the marketplace at this point in time with regard to debt negotiations and the lack of a budget deal at this point and when that in fact occurs if you see those levels go back down again then you'll see the projections of the waivers that they see.
And today it's completely realistic.
So it really is a reflection of what are very very short-term conditions right now vis-a-vis what is potentially likely if -- once the uncertainty in the marketplace is taken away.
Okay that's really helpful.
And then actually when -- like -- so when do you make a decision as to whether to pull back on fee waivers right because at some point you make a business decision as to do that.
It's not an automatic flow through so you would have to believe that it's -- there's some persistence to this? Remember how we've phrased this to make sure that the yields on the money funds don't go negative.
Right.
So I mean it really works like that that you will just keep it -- at whatever 0 or 1 basis point whatever they're at now and to the extent that they're going to rise higher than that you would just take every extra differential? That's how we've done it so far.
And then I guess with respect to the sort of flows in money markets there's been all this press about money market funds dumping T-bills and actually looking at the past week of flows $35 billion in outflow and $27 billion was from government funds.
Is that -- so two questions there: One is is the reason that's happening because more of the investor perceptions and funds not wanting to hold these from a PR standpoint because the U.S.
debt would actually get downgraded something like 6 notches before it's not Tier 1 investments or something.
And why aren't you seeing that?  Because you said you're not seeing redemptions? If you look at our performance on a flow basis I talked about our performance on a rate basis.
But if you look at our performance on a flow basis throughout all of 2011 it's been better from an industry -- than an industry perspective.
I think that at this point our institutional clients and our knowledge of them and their knowledge of us is very high.
We've provided a huge amount of communication and information to them over the course of these issues that have been sort of prominent in the money markets for all of 2011 as I said starting with the immensely low rate environment moving into the European debt situation now focused on a pretty much centric basis at this point right around the debt negotiations and treasury securities and the potential downgrade to those.
So I think our ability to communicate inform provide feedback to our clients has really been extremely helpful over the course of these what are somewhat volatile times.
And would continue to kind of look for that same sort of performance from a flow perspective vis-à-vis the market going forward.
Got it.
Okay lastly Chris do you think that -- I mean to the extent that if we had some kind of stress in the system resulting from all this hoopla around the debt ceiling that could actually bolster your case? And assuming that the money market funds manage it effectively to bolster your case around a 9-inning incremental regulatory reform that that could maybe win some play with regulators? The answer to that is yes.
I think you already have seen it for 40 years of withstanding a lot of stuff in the marketplace.
And I believe that money market funds came through the 2008 crisis very very well though dented.
And I think they came through very very well and are coming through very well.
All the noise was associated with the Greek and the European situation.
And I think when we look back on this whenever we're able to look back on this on the debt ceiling issue that you will find the same thing.
And part of the reason for that is the underlying resiliency of the funds themselves coupled with the desire of the investing public to use these funds for their cash management purposes.
And these are 2 powerful ingredients in helping the overall economy.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Just want to come back to the duration versus yield discussion again.
So if you were to get some kind of normal relief if you will from debt ceiling passage or whatever why is your assumption that yields would continue to back up? I'm just trying to understand that -- I guess what I'm looking at is if you're shortening your duration against the yields you're not catching it now the reverse happened to you in the fall and therefore you could actually have a worse fee waiver outcome than you're anticipating? I think there's 2 answers to that: The first is just of overall economic outlook.
We don't think we're in a double dip type of recessionary environment and we do think although as I've said before growth will be slower on an economic basis in the second half.
We still think it goes forward.
And as such when the market starts to realize that and continues to focus on it yields will -- the yield curve will become a little bit more positively sloped.
The other side of the equation what has really been problematic for money market funds especially in the second quarter and even to some degree in the first quarter of 2011 was huge amounts of cash sitting on the sidelines and waiting for certain situations to play themselves out before they went back into their natural marketplace.
Hedge funds sovereign debt investors were -- for a large part of the first half of 2011 squarely sitting in the repo and the treasury marketplace creating more demand for a supply that is less and less from the investment banks and from the dealers in the marketplace.
So it was simply a supply-demand thing where the demand was much greater.
Once the resolution of the debt ceiling goes forward those investors go back into those -- their natural marketplaces and get out of our cash markets which causes that imbalance on a supply-demand basis to go back to normal.
And although we may not have the elevated rates in treasury that we see today out to 3 months 9 to 15 basis points we should not see the 0 to negative basis points that we were seeing for much of the months of June and July.
Okay.
So Tom let's look back to your guidance here a little bit if we sort of stay in a more static environment is your fee waiver assumption here overly negative then relative to this discussion? Do we try to put a number in there? We argue about whether we even should say a number Bill and we run all kind of different models and pick -- but we know what July is okay and July is pretty ugly.
If you almost multiply July you get pretty close to our $23 million number but we have a little less than that because we think things are going to improve.
Is our number optimistic or pessimistic I don't know.
What we tried to do here is in looking at the over/under is to pick exactly the middle.
So on today's call the only number we can give you is the number we have and we can't say we're over/under.
Now if you ask me in a month if I'm in a conference and then I'll say well I'm over well I'm under that kind of a thing.
But as of today that's our best guess given those assumptions that we've made.
And everybody is welcome to have their own opinion on this as well.
And I mean that seriously.
There's just one last one for me.
Thanks for taking my questions.
It's a big picture question.
Chris if you look back in the history of your company I was doing this this morning over a decade if you strip out really the outside impact of '07 '08 in terms of the money market lift your earnings have basically been dead flat.
And I'm sort of curious what's going to be the callus or what's the backdrop necessary to see a more competitive rate of earnings leverage from here? The earnings are an important ingredient in the future growth of Federated no doubt.
And there are a couple of things.
One is obviously and then I'm going to set this aside real quick is the restoration of the waivers.
Okay.
And at some point rates will go up and that's now been put off.
Even Debbie thinks it's '12 fine.
Now the reason I've spent so much time in my remarks on our regular core equity and fixed business is that we think we've got a lot of good mandates that we're betting on.
That's why we're putting more salesmen on the field.
And we think it is going to be a good steady growth and restoration of positive flows in SMAs and direct sales and in the broker-dealer area.
So that is something.
It doesn't qualify I think in the way you're talking about in terms of an immediate catalyst but that's what we're doing for the long haul.
That's the story I'm trying to get across here.
The other thing is that we are determined to continue to find something on the international side which we think will help the overall effort to growth and how you all will look at it in terms of us scoring meaningfully on international assets which help the overall valuation and obviously have to add to earnings.
So I would -- to summarize growth in restoration of the Money Fund business continue to repeat the sounding joy as we've gotten some excellent models and work in the equity and fixed income area and the international acquisitions that we continue to look for.
Our next question comes from Allison Heffernan [ph] with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> It's actually Rob Lee.
Maybe shifting gears a little bit to investment fixed-income business and I apologize if you mentioned this earlier I may have missed it but do you have any kind of commentary around kind of RFP activity pipelines within the fixed-income business institutional business? Yes Rob.
It's Ray.
In terms of RFP activity it's stayed about the same in Q2 as Q1.
And both of which would have been elevated running in about 1/3 higher rate than what we saw through 2010.
So I'd say our RFP activity is heightened from a pipeline standpoint.
I'd say that we're in $100 million range.
We had some funding in Q2 that was masked by some of the other things going on with the redemptions that we talked about.
But the pipeline at this point we're hopeful that that will pick up just given the RFP activity and the records that we're dealing with there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Right.
Great.
And I'm maybe just curious Chris you talked earlier in the call about adding some personnel to the marketing franchise in the broker-dealer channel and what not.
You talked a little bit about your existing broker-dealer penetration.
I mean have you seen it -- is it -- how maybe you've seen the change in the last year or 2 is it pretty concentrated within 1 or 2 large franchises? Just trying to get a little more granularity on kind of where you stand and...
Overall the sales have about doubled from $6 billion and a fraction to $12 billion.
So overall it's done well.
Is it concentrated? That is concentrated in maybe the top 10 or so of the broker-dealer community.
And so what you're seeing when we're talking about putting on 12 new sales individuals in the broker-dealer is you're seeing basically a contraction of the sales area that the individuals can call on based on who they can actually see.
So we're creating new sales territories and that's why I mentioned that this then gives a whole new gang of individuals a whole new gang of opportunities in the smaller brokerage firm midsize-type brokerage firms again based on focus.
So we're building off a business model we think is working and it is concentrated in the largest dealers.
But then this sets the stage to get to other dealers that we think we can do an excellent job with.
And that's why I mentioned the fact that we've gone from calling on or having FAs 29 000 to 35 000 and we think we can increase that.
I mean you're dealing with about 125 000 FAs overall depending on how you look at them whether they are full time or part time and how much business.
But there's a lot more that can be done.
So that's what we're looking at.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
Maybe one more question for Deborah.
You mentioned earlier that -- I think you attributed your ability to sustain better relative flows or asset levels in part to your experience and relationships with your clients.
But you know when you look at -- that the industry has had some outflows last several weeks year-to-date is there anything you could point to as maybe about your business mix that you think is maybe a little bit different from what the kind of broader industry is? I mean that maybe help account for that? I guess if you look at the industry data it's institutional products as opposed to retail products that are suffering most of the outflows and you do have a fairly large amount of kind of retail-like products I guess through third-party distribution.
Is that causing your flow picture to be relatively better as well? We call them institutional products but you're absolutely right.
Each institutional customer has on an underlying basis through their distribution channel many retail customers underlying.
So I think that that in fact probably does have a very positive impact overall on our flows versus our competitors.
When you think of institutional business generally you think of corporate treasurers or some sort of state or municipal treasurers that are a single client controlling a single large sum of investment cash.
In fact when you look at our -- and don't get me wrong we have those clients also but generally speaking the typical institutional base that we have is much more diverse if you will on an underlying basis from the third-party distributors that we use.
Our next version comes from Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
First maybe a question for Debbie and Chris.
Just given the whether it's headlines or maybe eventual pressures on sovereigns banks in the money market area are you seeing more demand -- I know the market's a lot smaller but more demand for the corporate side at prime? And then second if we do get a downgrade or something worse does it bring up more pressure in the industry and maybe not for you guys because all along you've done relatively well versus peers but there's always some players that may not be as savvy and then the regulatory calls for change start to ramp up again? Sure.
First of all let me address the second part of the question first.
In the -- again possible but we still think fairly unlikely event of a downgrade of some of the rating agencies for the long-term section of U.S.
government debt to some degree that might perversely be helpful.
And again I know that seems kind of crazy but there are 2 reasons why I say that: Number one I mentioned effectively that doesn't take away the status of U.S.
government debt as the bellwether the slight quality instrument the largest volume highest quality most diverse most offered most sold instrument in the world.
It's still become it is still the most liquid instrument in the world.
And whether the AA or AAA rated it will maintain that status.
As a AA rating though it maintains that status with a slightly higher yield component.
So we are able then to buy those treasury securities that's something that's slightly higher in yield.
We don't have -- there's nothing on a mandated basis from a regulatory perspective nor from our prospectuses within those products that say we have to buy only treasury bills that are AAA rated.
It just says we have to buy treasury securities so that doesn't affect what we can buy and in some way shape or form it could actually increase the yields of those instruments.
The other side of the equation is we do have -- there are some customers in the marketplace that do need AAAs.
It's part of their investment policy.
It could potentially be part of their regulatory requirements.
And as such if the treasury bill no longer meets that AAA requirement as I mentioned before our money funds are still rated AAA.
And they will maintain a AAA even without a AAA rating for the underlying holdings of treasury securities.
So to some degree the money fund will become a choice for those who potentially were using direct instruments themselves.
So again I'd certainly -- a downgrade is not something that we would welcome look forward to think as a high likelihood on a probability basis.
But there are some positive outcomes and consequences that could be as a result of it.
Back to the first part of your question when you're talking about the differentiation between sovereigns and corporates and financials in the marketplace and are people looking more towards the corporate side of the equation I do think there's a couple of different things on a dynamic basis that are working there.
First of all there are more corporates in the marketplace and although we're not growing very quickly from an economic perspective we are going forward on an economic basis.
And if you just look at sort of earnings in the corporate sector they've been vastly positive and the credit metrics of those institutions have actually been improving.
So they have more need on the customer and a growth basis underlying to actually borrow in a short-term market for their working capital purposes.
So there's an increased amount of supply in that type of paper.
So I think that there's more to choose from than there may be was 2 years ago when the U.S.
was in a recession.
The other side of the equation though is you have to think you have to know it maybe is not intuitive but you have to know that if the U.S.
suffers some sort of a debt downgrade.
Wal-Mart suffers in some way shape or form too.
Johnson &amp; Johnson suffers in some way shape or form to.
Exxon Mobil suffers in some way shape or form too.
So it's not a safe haven that takes the place of what would be a downgraded U.S.
Treasury security at that point.
It would likely also have some flow-through effects to those corporates and potentially cause a reduction in what they need from a short-term financing perspective.
But right now they're doing well from a credit quality and analysis perspective.
And in such an economic situation that we're currently in they're needing a little bit more funding.
So those are those dynamics are positive but I don't think it's a replacement in any way shape or form for what happens or what we use U.S.
government debt for in our portfolios.
Okay thanks.
And then Tom just on the investments makes sense given some of the traction that you've been experiencing on the long-term side in terms of equity and fixed income.
I guess just given the environment how do you guys balance? There are some firms that are starting to pull back a bit you know just given the weaker growth flows into the industry have been a bit softer.
So just how do balance that? Are there any areas where you can pull back if the growth trajectory here the inflows in the industry do start to weaken? Yes.
Mike I think what has happened around here is the last couple of years we did pull back and we've relatively maintained that although we've invested with a number of new products and we continue to invest in technology and we're doing this expansion of the broker-dealer side of things and continue to replace people when we need them.
So we're staying in there and continuing to invest in the business.
If you looked at the press release you saw that from last year the equity funds and the fixed incomes both grew in double-digit numbers.
So it's a worthy business to continue to allow to grow.
Our next question comes from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America.
Sorry I have one more money market question.
I think for a while you've been saying that a 10 basis point increase in gross yields would reduce the impact of waivers by 1/3 and 25 basis point by 2/3.
But since the yields have gone down the waivers have increased wouldn't that relationship change in some ways? So it would take a smaller increase in yields at this point have a bigger impact? Not really Cynthia.
We've -- because the decrease in yields have been concentrated in particular in the government funds the proportions still hold true.
I mean the dollars the underlying dollars would be different.
And whatever that's kind of a guideline just -- the main point out of that being that it obviously doesn't take very much upward movement to remove most of 2/3 of the waivers.
So it's more of an indicator than a precision thing.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just one more question on the possible downgrade.
If the ratings of U.S.
short-term debt remain AAA but the long term didn't would that cause investors to crown to the short end and pressure those yields? I think investors generally go to the short end of the yield curve when there is uncertainty in the marketplace in their normal marketplace.
So if you're talking about longer-term investors going straight into the money markets it's only at that point in time when they are very uncertain about the conditions of that longer-term sector.
If in fact the downgrade occurs if there ends up being a split rating with some at AAA and some at AA if there is solidly in the AA rating camp I think whatever the rating agencies finally opine based on whatever debt deal is negotiated that uncertainty hopefully will go away.
And the result and change in yield spreads and the yield curve itself will likely I think attract the natural bond investors back out into the bond curve.
I don't think generally speaking a treasury bond investor would be in treasury cash just simply because of the difference between a highest-quality long-term rating versus a highest-quality short-term rating.
I think it's really more reflective of just uncertainty that they would go into that cash officially[ph].
Great.
And then just over on the fixed income side it looked like in the quarter there was a $1.8 billion exchange out of separate accounts and a $1.8 billion exchange into fixed-income funds.
I'm just wondering what that was and is there any fee change in there? There's no fee change Cynthia.
That was something we're able to work through to solve an issue for a client operationally who needed to have the holdings in the fund format rather than in direct security so we actually transitioned that into a collective fund to accommodate what the client needed to do.
Our last question comes from Roger Freeman with Barclays Capital.
Yes.
I just had one follow-up just on the growth in your sales force.
I wanted to see if you could just put a couple of numbers you gave us in contact.
So the 12 new folks in the broker-dealer division what kind of -- like how many were there? What percentage increase is that I guess particularly relative to regional? I guess your point is that they focus on regional because you're splitting up the territories.
But I guess what's 12 of whatever the baseline is? And also 3 in the consultant relations what kind of increase is that? The overall number which we have been using about since we want public was about 190 or so wholesalers.
So it's an increase off of that.
And specifically Roger in the channel we would say that of that 190 a little less than 1/3 would be in -- specifically in broker-dealer.
And we have another 1/3 of the total is in internal sales and so that actually you could think of as being cross functional.
But if you looked at the assignment to broker-dealer you'd get about 54 out of that roughly 190 though the 12 would be an increase to that 54 number.
And then in terms of the consultant relation positions we have about 30 people total in our institutional sales and retirement services sales force.
They do a variety of things.
There's about 12 that specifically would be in institutional sales.
The 3 would be added to that roughly 12.
There are no further questions at queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Hanley for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us and that concludes our call today.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Third Quarter 2011 Quarterly Earnings Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Raymond J.
Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you Mr.
Hanley.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Today we will have some remarks before opening the call up for questions.
Leading today's call will be Federated's CEO Chris Donahue; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer; and Debbie Cunningham Chief Investment Officer for the Money Market area will update us on Money Market conditions.
By way of forward-looking statements let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review our risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given at the future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning all.
I will start with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance before turning the call over to Tom for a discussion of our financials.
Looking first to cash management total Money Market assets increased by $6 billion in the third quarter compared to the prior quarter.
Average money fund assets decreased slightly in the quarter due mainly to tax seasonality in separate accounts.
Money Market mutual fund average assets were nearly the same as the prior couple of quarters.
Money Market total assets increased $9 billion or 4% in Q3 versus Q2 and our market share increased to over 9%.
Growth in government money fund assets was partially offset by a very modest decrease in prime assets and by lower Muni fund assets.
Following my remarks Tom will address the money fund fee waivers and Debbie will comment on the current Money Market conditions and our expectations going forward.
On the regulatory front money funds continue to be an active topic of discussion.
We are engaged in discussions with the regulators as they study various ideas that have been suggested.
We believe that money funds were meaningfully and sufficiently strengthened by last year's extensive revisions to 2a-7.
We are seeing those changes work successfully in real time with money funds and European bank investments money funds and debt ceiling discussions money funds and loss of USA AAA rating.
Investors are able to see fund positions with unprecedented clarity and we've seen very low movement of money from our Prime funds.
The SEC now has a view into the recent holdings of all money funds.
The funds have had ample liquidity in compliance with the revised regulations.
Overall the regulations and structure of money funds are working quite well in the midst of challenging marketing conditions and they continue to offer excellent cash management services to both shareholders and issuers.
We remain favorably disposed to improvements that would enhance the resiliency of money funds by addressing the primary issue faced during the financial crisis namely market-wide liquidity crunch.
We are unable to make predictions on any particular outcome or timeline in this area.
Turning to longer-term assets our broad income-focused product line and reputation for solid consistent income-producing strategies fits well with investors' increased demand for these products in both equity and bond portfolios.
Looking first to our Equity business we had our best quarter for gross equity fund sales in a decade at $2.4 billion.
As investors increasingly look for solid income-producing equity investments we continue to see strong results from the strategic value dividend strategy.
It became our first equity fund to produce over $1 billion in net sales during a quarter and was among the top-selling funds in the entire industry during the quarter.
The related separate accounts strategy had another very solid quarter of inflows as well adding nearly $500 million in net flows during the quarter.
We are also seeing heightened institutional interest in the form of RFPs for this strategy.
Our sales force has been very successful expanding distribution opportunities for this product.
In addition we broadened the focus and placements of our advertising we started earlier this year to include international version of this strategy.
We are pleased with the early results of this campaign.
We have started to see some lift in the flows for the International Strategic Value Fund in Q3 and here early in Q4.
Both strategies have achieved strong performance and are well-positioned for continued growth.
In addition the Prudent Bear Fund produced higher gross sales and net sales in Q3 over Q2.
The Clover Small Value Fund also increased its gross and net sales from the prior quarter.
At the end of Q3 we had 7 equity strategies in a variety of styles that have top quartile 3-year records and are well-positioned for growth.
Capital Income Prudent Bear Equity Income International Leaders International Strategic Value Kaufmann Large Cap and Strategic Value Dividend.
Equity fund flows are running slightly higher for the first 3 weeks of October so the early results may not necessarily reflect the results for the entire quarter.
Overall flows in equity separate accounts were positive.
We saw growth in the Strategic Value strategy partially offset by redemptions that we characterize as largely de-risking asset allocation decisions made by our clients and to a lesser extent net redemptions in Quant's strategies.
Equity RFP activity is up about 33% year-to-date Q3 compared to the same period in 2010.
We are seeing particular interest in equity income small-cap value and international equity strategies.
Reflecting the challenging market conditions we are seeing longer decision processes around institutional RFPs.
We have about 50% more RFPs in pending status at the end of Q3 compared to a year ago and a higher percentage of our 2011 RFPs are classified as pending compared to a year ago.
Looking now at fixed income some flows were positive for Q3 led by our stable Value Capital Preservation Fund product and by a return to positive Muni fund flows.
Our multisector and corporate funds had positive flows and we are beginning to see some good sales results from our new Unconstrained Bond Fund.
Fixed income fund flows are running solidly positive for the first 3 weeks of October with all domestic bond categories producing net inflows.
Fixed income separate accounts had negative flows with about half of the total due to 3 different government entity accounts that drew down funds.
We also saw a derisking activity from certain clients in other accounts who allocated funds out of high-yield emerging market and corporate portfolios which we attribute to the challenging market conditions during the quarter.
RFP activity for fixed income is up approximately 30% year-to-date of '11 compared to the same period in 2010.
We won 2 new accounts in the third quarter and have about $100 million in related funding expected in Q4 or perhaps even early next year.
We continue to see interest in a variety of areas including: active cash short duration high yield and other corporates and emerging market debt strategies.
Now turning to fund investment performance and looking at quarter-end Lipper rankings for Federated's equity funds 42% of rated assets are in the first or second quartile over the last year 35% over 3 years 45% over 5 years and 76% over 10 years.
For Bond Fund assets the comparable first and second quartile percentages are 68% for 1 year 38% for 3 years 69% for 5 years and 74% for 10 years.
Looking at the Morningstar rated funds 30% of rated equity fund assets are in 4- and 5-star product as of 9/30 and 68% are in 3- 4- and 5-star products.
For Bond Funds the comparable percentages are 38% 4- and 5-star; and 80% 3- 4- and 5-star.
As of October 26 managed assets were approximately $355 billion including $272 billion in Money Markets $30 billion in equities $53 billion in fixed income which includes our liquidation portfolios.
Money Market mutual fund assets stand at about $247 billion.
So far in October Money Market fund assets have ranged between $244 billion and $249 billion with average of $246 billion.
Looking at distribution highlights year-to-date gross sales of equity funds increased about 20% compared with the same period in 2010 with sales growth strongest in our wealth management bank trust channel.
Year-to-date gross SMA sales have more than doubled.
Fixed income fund sales are up 13% year-to-date with the best growth coming from the broker/dealer channel.
As mentioned last quarter we are in the process of adding 12 additional sales reps and additional sales support positions in the broker/dealer channel to add to the already substantial sales growth that we've achieved in this area.
Our strategy is to leverage the progress we've made over the last couple of years in providing better coverage to the major wirehouse firms and to increase our coverage of the regional and independent firms.
Now we've added about half of these positions so far and expect to have the rest on board by the end of Q2 in 2012.
Regarding acquisitions and offshore businesses we remain focused on developing an alliance to further advance our business outside the U.S.
and we continue to work to grow our current offshore businesses.
We launched a new sterling-denominated money fund in Q3 and added the fund to a multiple of global portals that already offered our other Ireland domicile products.
We expect to complete the addition of the product to 2 new portals this quarter and to develop retail distribution through a major clearing platform in the U.K.
as well.
We recently added a sales person in our Frankfurt office.
In our London office we are currently in the process of adding 2 new positions including a senior sales rep and are also looking for some office space in the city.
In the U.S.
we are actively seeking consolidation opportunities and in Q3 completed 2 deals with the EquiTrust Funds and the Tributary International Equity Fund adding about $600 million in new assets in a variety of strategies.
Tom? Thanks Chris.
Our financial results were solid when viewed against the backdrop of very challenging market conditions.
Our margins were about the same as the prior quarter and about the same as Q3 of last year.
We continue to be diligent on expenses while making investments for growth in the areas of new products distribution and acquisitions.
Money Market funds continue to be a very important source of revenue for Federated even as the extraordinary market conditions caused us to waive a significant portion of our revenues in this area.
Revenues from Money Market assets were $93 million in the third quarter about 44% of total revenue down from a 10-year average of about 50% of our total revenues.
Money Market revenue net of distribution payments accounted for about 37% of our total revenue again net of distribution payments down from a 10-year average of about 41%.
For comparison purposes our equity revenue net of distribution expense made up 39% of our total about the same as its 10-year average.
Waivers impacted Money Markets as expected.
Full details are in the press release.
As we look ahead we think these waivers could impact the fourth quarter by around $26 million in pretax earnings compared to the $23.2 million in the third quarter.
The expected increase is due mainly to the growth in government Money Market assets which have the lowest gross yield and highest waivers.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields will likely reduce the impact of these waivers by about 40% from these levels and the 25 basis point in increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
Looking at total revenue the decrease from the prior quarter was due to higher money fund waivers and lower average equity assets partially offset by 1 additional day in the quarter and by higher fixed income-related revenues.
Comp and related expense was lower than Q2 due mainly to adjustments to incentive compensation accrual.
Advertising expense was up sequentially as we began an extended run of online and print ads to promote the domestic and international strategic value dividend products.
Amortization and intangible decreased due to the Q2 roll-off of amortization expenses from certain previously acquired assets and amortization of deferred sales commissions decreased due to the full amortization of certain B Share related assets.
Looking at nonoperating expense Q3 included $2.3 million in net losses from lower asset -- lower net asset values on consolidated products.
These losses were nearly all unrealized on trading securities related to seed capital investments.
Looking at our balance sheet cash and marketable securities totaled $322 million at quarter-end and our net debt was about $70 million.
Cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flow from operations and availability under present debt facilities provides us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as well as the ability to fund related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new product seeds and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Debbie to discuss Money Market conditions.
Thanks Tom.
I thought I'd just give you an update on rates and then talk a little bit about the hot topic in the market which continues to be the European banking situation and then touch also on Operation Twist which is a new issue from the Fed since the last call.
From a short-term rate perspective we actually saw some reprieve in the marketplace certainly not from a Fed Funds perspective but rather from overall short-term rates modestly being higher in the third quarter.
Repo which is a very important vehicle for use within our government as well as prime mini-market funds is situated in the mid to high single digits.
That's up from the low to mid-single digits in the second quarter.
So there has been a little bit of reprieve in that marketplace certainly not as a 25 basis point high for the target range but again mid to high single digits in the third quarter.
And that's continuing in the last quarter of the year.
Overall LIBOR rate 1 month was up 6 basis points to 25 basis points 3 months up 18 basis points to 43 6 month up 10 basis points to 62 and 12 months LIBOR up 17 basis points to 93 basis points.
So we actually have a yield curve that almost gives us a one handle on the long end of it.
As such we've been employing our barbelled strategy within all of our products buying longer-dated fixed rate security in addition to shorter-dated floating rate security to help take advantage of some of that improving condition in the yield curve.
From a European debt perspective Federated continues to use European banks 8 different countries several banks within each of those countries in a fashion that on a percentage allocation basis is not drastically different from our usage of those banks in the past.
All year long that average has been between 40% and 45% in our Prime fund for exposure to the European bank.
That continues to be the case with the average today right around 43%.
And don't expect that to change much going forward.
Our strategy however has shortened over the course of the last several years and continuing in for the last several months.
The maturity restrictions on many of those institutions many of those European banks.
As such we are making decisions on whether to roll over those debt that debt every day and effectively have shortened maturities from somewhere in the 3 to 6 months range down to somewhere that's more near about 1 month 2 weeks for some institutions out to 3 months for others.
So on average our decision-making process and our ability to change those decisions should our monitoring and surveillance of those issuers warrant that change is very quick and very short from a time perspective at this time.
We continue to believe that the overall credit quality of those institutions is as high as it gets from a minimal credit risk perspective and our assessment of those institutions.
Certainly yesterday's Greek accord from the EU's perspective and their capabilities are now writing down 50% of that Greek debt exposure is a positive in the marketplace.
The overall assessment in the market has been received as such.
But the devil is in the details and we'll continue to monitor and surveil as we go forward.
This is something that we believe again kicks the can down the road in the context of this being not an overnight fix to this process.
18 months ago when the first round of Greek debt negotiations were undertaken there was about a 20% write-down that was mandated.
We're now up to 50% and most likely we'll go something further as the market conditions warrant depending upon what happens from an economic perspective in the marketplace.
But again reiterating the institutions in the banking companies that we are using in Europe are all very well-situated to deal with these write-downs and continue to represent minimal credit quality constraints and risks within our Prime portfolios.
The last thing I'll mention is Operation Twist which was the new form of easing if you will that was announced at the last FOMC meeting by the Federal Reserve.
The first thing I'll say about Operation Twist is that it does not result in any new net supply in the marketplace.
One of the constant themes that you've been hearing from me as well as others in the Money Market over the course of the last several years is that this is a supply-constrained market.
Operation Twist doesn't help this supply.
There are no new treasuries being issued from this operation.
What is happening is they're taking the shorter portion of the debt that's currently held in Treasury securities on the New York Fed balance sheet and selling that back out into the marketplace and then taking the proceeds from the sales and redeploying those by purchasing longer dated Treasury securities back on to the balance sheet.
So net effect is 0 to the Fed with an average maturity that's actually lengthening in the process.
What is helpful from a Money Market perspective is that we now have additional supply on a direct purchase basis.
So there are more eligible securities that will be -- that are in the market and will continue to be put into the marketplace that are directly able for Treasury and government agency Money Market funds to purchase.
Offsetting that to some degree is the fact that some of the longer-dated collateral that have been used in the marketplace for repurchase agreement collateralization is now being put back on to the Fed's balance sheet.
So although it's not the end positive result that maybe had been contemplated at the very beginning thoughts of Operation Twist we do view it as a modest potential positive for Money Market rates and certainly for the government Money Market funds.
And most important when you view the other alternatives that they were contemplating during that time period Operation Twist is the best outcome that we could have hoped for at that point.
We now like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Chris perhaps I'll start with you.
You mentioned a lot of good things going on in terms of flows and expansion a little bit.
Could you sort of frame that out against maybe the outlook for expenses into 2000 -- and maybe into the fourth quarter and into 2012? You issued a comp that it looked like maybe you had a little bit of a catch up on the variable accrual and so forth but how should we think about expenses relative to the growth prospects? Yes Bill this is Tom.
On the comp we have -- every quarter we to look at what we think is the comp is going to be for the year and we readjusted it to the third quarter.
And when you go to do that in the third quarter you have to readjust and include the first and second quarter.
So you might see a little uptick to probably below 60.
But again we have to readjust it at the end of the year.
So it could be higher or lower.
But on a -- right today that's what we would say -- would be the answer.
In terms of the rest of expenses we don't see anything extraordinary coming in.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And second question is -- and maybe I'm not looking at the data correctly so I apologize if I'm not but if you look at sort of the net economic sharing arrangement that you have with your distributors it seems like that ratio is working against you a little bit.
I think it's like 26% or so in the third quarter.
Given where rates are now is there -- are you starting to see any kind of pushback in terms of the sharing arrangements with the distributors or was it just mix? I'm sort of curious what the dynamics might be leading to result in that ratio moving up over the last couple of quarters? Bill it's Ray I'll just comment on the mechanics on the numbers that you're seeing.
You get the greatest proportion of sharing as you've had the higher fee fund.
So you've -- as the yields came in even a bit further you get into the asset pool where there is less of a distribution expense to the distributor.
So that accounts for the pretty modest change that you saw in the offset in the distribution expense.
And as to the pushback in sharing there is very little "pushback" in sharing when there's so little to share.
This is not to say that the constant pattern of the marketplace to want more has changed.
So you will always have that factor which we have dealt with for decades.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to clarify then can you say that governments are make up a greater percentage of the assets these days that would suggest that that ratio would hold at this level? Yes government as a higher percentage would have a lower level of distribution expense than say Prime where you see more utilization in some of the -- for example the broker/dealer channel.
So at the margin it would be -- it would lead to lower distribution of expense and therefore less of an offset as you noted.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And my last one.
When you think about what's going on at both the equity and fixed income side a lot of good things going on but how do you -- what's the outlook in terms of the fee -- rate impact just give me some of the ins and outs between all the various funds if you will? Well Bill if you look at within equity the biggest growth there clearly is strategic value dividend.
And that fee would -- the revenues related to that would be lower than our average fee but kind of right in line with what you would see in many other funds.
On the flip side of that we've had growth in Prudent Bear which is because of the nature of what they do a bit of a higher fee than say the average.
And so that's been additive and we've had outflows on the Kaufmann side though at a diminished rate in the most recent quarter.
And that would be at a higher rate as well.
So you can almost think of those 2 as pushing and pulling each other purely from a revenue standpoint.
Our next question comes from Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a question on the long-term side.
So you obviously are gaining traction in some of the products.
When you think about what you have established on the distribution side you mentioned some of the hires in the sales force and that's going to continue but when you see where these flows are coming from I guess when you look out in terms of the channels that you're already in how much penetration have you had versus where you see the opportunity? And then maybe the channels where these products just aren't as prevalent but you're working on getting them into those channels how much of an opportunity do you see there as well? Well especially on broker/dealer Michael we see a lot of good opportunity which is why we put on the -- or agreed to put on the 12 new salespeople.
I mean we took the number of advisers that we're calling on from in the mid-20 000s to over 30 000.
And depending on how you count advisers there is 120 000 of them.
So we felt we've done a very very good job at the big wirehouses and we're able to carve up territories to allow others to get into smaller broker/dealers which should expand on exactly that kind of basis those numbers.
The next level is that even where we are doing business we're able to expand from 1 or 2 type tickets or type mandates with an individual to get that up to 3 or 4.
And once you do that then there's a higher love quotient going on which helps both the numbers and the longevity of the business.
So the way that we're looking at it is that we can expand very smartly in this business and that's why we're committed to adding the people.
I guess that's a good piece of evidence there.
On the wealth and trust management we see the same kind of thing.
It isn't so much that we can get into new areas.
We've been in the same banks for a long time but we basically have an infinitesimal market share of these kinds of assets.
And we think with the triumph of advice and the increase of imposed fiduciary duties whether it's from the marketplace or from regulation that the kinds of things that we're doing and have been well known for in that marketplace set us up for good growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just on the expense side and maybe not necessarily on the fourth quarter but as we head into 2012 particularly the success on the long-term products -- like that continues.
Should we be thinking about -- obviously the fees are going to be higher but when you think about the expense side either whether it's comp anything on the advertising side relative to either where we are now or from the full year of -- or year-to-date of 2011 should we be thinking anything differently if this really starts to catch on into 2012? Well Michael if the performance and a number of those funds continues to be excellent we're still going to be paying incentive comp there but then you have to look at the whole complex to determine the bottom line number.
And some are doing better and getting higher compensation and some are not hitting all the scorecards properly.
In terms of other costs associated with growing in those products we don't see any outsized need for additional expenses as those products grow.
We have some pretty good leverage opportunity there.
Our next question comes from Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First just given the success of the Strategic Value Fund do you think you can sort of leverage that momentum and maybe broaden out the sales to some of your other products through some of your channels? And then how much of a headwind do you think the 3-year Lipper rankings are if at all? Well on that product we have already expanded and just as I've mentioned by the international dividend fund.
And it does -- it is helpful in terms of pointing attention to the other members of the dividend strategies like capital income fund and equity income fund.
So yes it does help but we think we are able to do some leveraging there.
And we think that the product in and of itself continues on quite smartly.
One of the interesting things about this particular fund and relative performance is as follows: because this fund has been successfully sold as a 5 and 5 product meaning 5% dividend more or less 5% growth of dividends more or less when the performance relative to other funds in the category has even been in the bottom decile the funds sales continue apace.
And so naturally we're happy when it has a good relative record but because of what it is it continues to sell even though it may have historically -- even though historically it has gone in and out of the top group.
So whatever the Lipper ranking is on that product really won't matter too much because we continue to stick to the knitting.
And Mike it's Ray I assume you're talking about overall percentage of Lipper in the 3-year numbers because clearly with the strategic value it's top decile for 3 years and when we went through the top quartile equity strategy on a 3-year basis and we went through 7 of them 4 of them are income-oriented equity products: the capital income the equity income and then both versions of strategic value dividend.
And so we feel that we're developing an even stronger reputation in the marketplace for income products broadly where we had somewhat of a reputation with bonds and with money funds and now we're building that on the equity side.
And we see outstanding growth prospects for those 4 equity income products against what's becoming a pretty dominant market theme.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just maybe a question for Tom.
Now that net debt continues to come down has your thinking on capital management shifted a bit particularly as it relates to maybe a special dividend since you've done those in the past? Well we -- our insight to that is we're -- a broader answer is we're looking to maintain our activity in buying shares back.
And we of course have continued to pay the regular dividend.
And then the third leg is the acquisitions of which we continue to look for.
And including the international side of things.
And so the fourth one you're adding there is the special dividend which is yes we paid 2 before and looking at the environment and what's coming and are we able to get a deal.
If you look at our history when we've done those deals the acquisitions our purchase of shares has gone down and when we paid the dividends it hasn't been necessarily exactly closely to when we made the acquisitions.
So that's a lot of talk to say.
Let's see whether we get an acquisition and what we would do with our cash into the future not committing to anything.
Our next question comes from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First are you guys making money on the management of Treasury Money Market funds? And the reason I ask is if you look at expense ratio excluding management fees in your bigger funds it's about 33 bps in the Treasury obligation fund.
The yield is on treasuries -- 3-month treasuries is 2 bps duration of the fund is 32 days.
So it seems like you're not only waiving management fees but having to cover the expenses of the government -- of the treasury funds as well.
So maybe this is a obvious question and with an obvious answer but just to put it out there are you making money or are these products losing you money right now? Ken it's Ray.
We don't calculate profitably at the fund level or asset class level.
But from a revenue standpoint the answer is clearly yes.
We have net revenue from the management of Treasury and agency products even with the -- in the yield environment.
You mentioned the T-Bills and they're obviously low.
As Debbie mentioned these funds have essentially not had yield for about 3 years now.
So they're managed with a bias towards liquidity which means there's a lot of repo there and going back to Debbie's comments we've been in the mid to upper single digits on repo levels that really dominate those portfolios.
So that allows us to continue to operate the funds to have net revenue from the funds and to not be subsidizing them the way most people define a subsidy meaning actually supporting the cost of the products.
We are not doing that.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
That actually answers the question.
Secondly in terms of risk management to what extent does the executive office oversee investment decisions being made in the Money Market fund business? So for example the investment side has made -- Federated made a differentiated bet on French banks.
It's a big bet -- it's probably the right bet but it's a big bet nonetheless and if it goes wrong it has implications not just for the funds but for Federated as a whole.
So how does the risk management structure work on the investment side? How does the reporting structure work? And what is the role of the C-Suite in investment decisions here if any? I'll make a couple of comments then I'll let Debbie comment on this as well.
The overall risk management system has to begin with the independent directors of the fund and the fund's prospectus.
Then you have the executives here -- and you say that the C level and I think you're looking both at Chief Executive Officers and Chief Investment Officers and even the President of the Investment Advisers.
So these things are constantly reviewed in those groups as well.
We have meetings roughly every 3 weeks where the C level people look at all of these factors.
This is not to say that there isn't an analysis that goes on in between as well.
In addition there is a separate risk management effort headed by a fellow by the name of Mike Granido interestingly with a background at JPMorgan.
In any event he heads up the risk management here and does a lot of work independent of what the credit work has done on these subjects as well.
So those are the broad outlines of overall risk management.
And I'll let Debbie tell you about it from the portfolio manager perspective.
Basically I'll say it's a continuous story of flows flows from an informational perspective that go from the investment management group to the risk management's group compliance legal as the main groups have oversight on a day-to-day basis.
Generally speaking our systems allow the investment management folks to have real time access to all data so if I want to know intra-day what my positions to French banks are it's a very simple process for me and the investment group to get that.
Our oversight from a flow perspective on that information to the risk management compliance and legal groups happens on a batch basis at night.
And that has proven to be pretty effective in the context of keeping everybody up to date on current market conditions and potential bets as you might note I would say that that Money Market funds at this point really are -- and certainly Federated's Prime and Muni funds where we would maintain direct exposure to French banks and even on a counter-party basis within our government funds are not making a bet that's different from the marketplace at this point.
We're just doing our job in a way that calculates what we consider to be the best relative value of institutions out there and doing it with day-to-day continuous monitoring.
The other side of this flow situation is the fund flow.
So the asset flow shareholder flows that are going into and out of the -- those products that use those French banks or European institutions on a day-to-day basis and that helps us to validate basically that we're doing the appropriate decision-making process within our own assessment of the risks involved in those institutions the information flow that goes to those oversight groups within Federated.
And then again validated by the client flow.
If you look Chris had mentioned on his regulatory side discussions about various options that continue to be reviewed for money fund reform and our conclusion in many ways that the 2a-7 reforms that occurred in 2010 are 99.99% of the way to final reform for this industry.
And what we saw in the July and August time period in the marketplace where you had huge amounts of volatility in the Prime and Muni funds that was for the most part industry-related to the second round of Greek debt negotiations just beginning.
And then you had piled on top of that volatility within the government sector.
If you recall at our last discussion our last earnings call we were questioning whether or not the U.S.
was going to default.
We weren't questioning that but the market was questioning whether or not the U.S.
was going to default on their debt and certainly the resulting long-term downgrade by S&amp;P is one that has been challenging for even our government Money Market funds which from an industry perspective have always been the safe haven.
So despite these sorts of conditions in the July and August time period Federated funds came through with flying colors.
And our overall flow validation of our process and our model held up very well against the industry and the industry in total held up very well in the context of the new regulations and what's proven to be a pretty sound source of liquidity credit and diversification changes that came about from those 2010 regulation changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And actually just to press the 2a-7 it seems like there were meaningful redemptions at the Prime funds and have been in these periods of credit quality concerns and times of stress most recently.
So 3Q Prime funds at about $97 billion of redemptions around Greek debt to and French bank concerns et cetera.
And I think you saw this out of your Prime cash obligation funds which had the biggest exposure to French banks.
That saw disproportional redemptions for you guys.
So it seems like little concerns little runs in Prime funds.
If there was a big credit problem there could be a big run.
And I thought that was what the regulators were trying to prevent.
And if we're still seeing these mini-runs here -- run is probably a terrible word but like outsized redemptions is it really -- are the new rules really working well or do they -- seems like -- well I guess your opinion is they're working well but I don't know if this data kind of confirms that? Any response to that? The only response I would have is that from our perspective I think you're reading way too much into the Prime cash obligation side of the equation.
At any given point in time we may have a larger shareholder in that fund or any of our other products that may cause it to look like it's doing something different.
In fact our strategy across all the Prime funds is identical.
So -- and generally speaking the only difference is that you might note on a quarter end or reporting date are the results of client flows that just happened to be a little different.
And that we've agreed to from a know-your-client basis ahead of time.
The other side of it though when you look at sort of the market conditions and Prime fund redemptions that did take place during that July and August time period I think the industry on average was down about 10% in Prime fund assets and specifically there were funds that were down over 50%.
These are not Federated funds but I'm sure you follow the market on a specific basis.
You know who they are.
This in the 2008 time period would have caused extreme market illiquidity.
And going back again to what Chris mentioned that's what we perceived to have been the main problem outside of those institutions that owned Lehman Brothers on a credit default basis back in September of 2008.
But the extreme illiquidity that was the result of that back in 2008 certainly did not play out at all in the context of the summer of 2011 timeframe.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee with Keefe Bruyette.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to go -- maybe go back to an expense question and I'm just curious I mean you guys have been I guess pretty tight on the expense front for a while given some of the revenue pressures.
But do you see any built-up pressures to the extent that if or when more of the money fund fee waivers start rolling off that some of that may actually -- lack of a better way of putting it have to be absorbed into different new business initiatives or comp or what have you that you've been kind of holding back on for a while as they've been in place? Well we hope it comes back into comp because as earnings decrease and we go through our accrual calculations for what we think we were going to be able to pay when earnings are down it's not as less.
So if earnings go up we would hope that would creep back into higher comp absolutely.
In terms of continuing to invest I had a little comment in there and Chris talked about we have new products we've invested in new sales force -- our addition to sales force.
We're continuing our technology investments at about the similar pace that we have in the last few years and that was not something that we ever went in and tried to get savings there.
We continue to do that.
So I don't expect a explosion except for if we're doing some new business or if we have some acquisition where you get some obvious expense that would come with revenues.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I have a question on the redemption front.
I mean historically you guys tended to have higher redemption rates than I'd say the industry average if I look at your fixed income and equity business.
I understand that it's somewhat a function of the nature of your distribution and maybe in fixed income short duration products certainly have an effect.
But is there anything you see or you think you can do or maybe given where your sales are right now by channel a distributor that we could see an improvement in that or anything that you think you can do to kind of moderate that to some degree? Rob it's Ray before I enter the substance of your question just on the rates I would agree with you that with a fixed income rates they have historically been higher and I think you've attributed it properly to our mix of assets with a short duration the Ultrashort funds in particular.
We probably have some more inflows and outflows from people using those more like cash.
I think our rates on the equity side have been pretty much in line.
And even though we have tried all sorts of things from redemptions hours to other things that redemptions are just a part of life and if we could do something about them I assure you we would.
We continually brainstorm it.
But the most important strength of the investment company is the right to redeem.
And I know we don't have all investment companies but you just can't dent the right to redeem.
And you have it exactly right the nature of our clients is a little different than the nature of a pure retail clients.
So we have to therefore like our friend the Red Queen run twice as fast in order to get somewhere.
Our next question comes from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Question on the fee waivers it sounds like your guidance is based really more on mix shift than on interest rates.
And I'm just wondering I mean you talked a little about the mix shift that took place during the quarter but do you see that shift as a permanent shift or sort of what is your outlook for the mix shift? Well any mix shift we see -- the idea of permanent is just not a concept.
I don't know how to even say the word "permanent." As the market changes though people have shown a lot of resilience of moving back in and out of Prime funds not unlike you've seen risk-on risk-off in other types of activities.
It seems to become the inspirational motivation of many clients risk-on risk-off all across the spectrum of investing.
It's also Cynthia a combination of where -- certainly where the assets are in the government funds and what are the overnight repos and which number do we want to plug in there and what are you going to get and where are the assets.
I also think it's instructive.
If you look at the full cycle we had tremendous run-up in the government funds in the first part of the whole credit crunch cycle.
I mean our Treasury funds got up into the $90 billion plus range.
And coming into the beginning of this year they were a little bit under $40 billion and now they're back up to where they're pushing $50 billion.
So we've seen pretty good ebb and flow in and out of that particular subset of products pretty well correlated to the level of stress and angst in the world.
And so no "permanent" is certainly not the right word to attach to it.
Our hope would be that we will see clients get comfortable and begin to migrate gradually as they did in the beginning part of the cycle out of the Treasury fund into the agency and into the Prime as their comfort level increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess if the rest of the market is back to risk on you would expect to see in an analogous thing with the Money Markets? It doesn't work in lockstep with the equity/bond players risk-on risk-off.
The cash management decision is a different kind of a decision.
But overall yes I would agree with that.
If they're basically risks back on then at the margin you're going to see people coming back in to the Prime funds.
But remember we're talking about numbers that are like the top hat of the charts not the base of the chart.
The numbers Ray gave you these things move in tens of billions not of fifties of billions.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess just on the Money Market balance is there any seasonality we should take into account in terms of corporations building up cash at the end of the year and then spending it early in the year or seasonality in the separate accounts that we should look out for? There is on the separate accounts because they're weighted toward government pools of cash.
And so they tend to collect taxes in Q4 and Q1.
Those will be our peak and draw the money down in Q2 and Q3.
And we've seen that kind of a wave cycle over the 10 years that we've been managing this money.
On the fund side there's much less seasonality around year end per se.
There is regular seasonality around tax payments.
So we saw mid-September was when we had the dip in assets we related a lot of that to regular -- the regular cycle of quarterly tax payments by corporations and other entities.
Generally there's a monthly pattern too by which assets build up to either the 15th or the 25th of the month and then have some amount of payout that occurs on each of those 2 dates.
But again it's repeatable and we've been sort of following it and know the origins of it over years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to clarify on the separate accounts business.
You mentioned the $500 million that went into the equities I guess related to the strategic value.
Is that separately managed accounts the traditional SMA or is it a more institutional? No that's the traditional SMA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Overall your SMA business is it growing shrinking stable at this point? Because my impression for the industry was that it was kind of -- that the business as a whole was in that redemptions but it sounds like at least one side of it for you has grown? Yes certainly the equity side has grown and driven by this particular strategy.
We've commented in past calls that the Quant strategy was under some pressure and that's diminished though it continues to be in net redemptions.
But equity SMA has over the past several quarters been improving to the point now where it's net positive.
The gradual gain driven by strategic value have overcome the redemptions we've had on the Quant side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question I guess just on roll-ups of Money Markets.
Any shift in terms of the willingness for people to sell their Money Market businesses with the continuing waivers? Yes I don't know if it's a shift.
I mean we're continuing to have a number of conversations and expect more to come.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Hanley for closing comments.
Well that will conclude our remarks for today and we thank you for joining us.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Raymond J.
Hanley President of Federated Investors.
Thank you.
Mr.
Hanley you may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue CEO and President of Federated; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer; and participating in today's call will also be Debbie Cunningham who is our Chief Investment Officer for the money markets.
And let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements.
And we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different from the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review our risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning.
I will start with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance before turning the call over to Tom to discuss our financials.
Looking first at cash management.
Total money market assets increased by $13 billion in the fourth quarter and average money market assets were $8.5 billion higher than the third quarter levels.
The growth was concentrated in our wealth management bank trust channel.
Money market mutual fund average assets were $249 billion up about $10 billion compared to the prior couple of quarters.
Our market share increased to over 9%.
Growth occurred in government money fund assets as prime and Munis were about flat.
While yields remained low our business continues to grow.
Tom will comment on money market fee waivers and Debbie will discuss market conditions and our commentaries going forward.
Looking at the regulatory front money fund discussions continue.
The Chairman of the SEC has indicated that further regulations will likely be proposed and may include fluctuating NAV; capital from sources that could include sponsors; fund shareholders and with the capital markets along with potential redemption barriers.
At Federated we are firm in our belief that money funds were meaningfully and sufficiently strengthened by the 2010 extensive regulation revisions in 2a-7.
We saw those changes work successfully through a series of events in the United States the debt ceiling crisis and the downgrade and the Europe with Greece and European banks among the challenges that were faced in 2011.
Investors continue to use money funds as an efficient and effective way to manage cash.
The funds have ample liquidity and compliance with the revised regulations.
Investors have ready access to recent portfolio data and the SEC has a view into the holdings of all money funds.
Those features were also enhanced in the 2010 improvements to rule 2a-7.
In our view these improvements made by the SEC are working quite well in the midst of challenging market conditions.
We are encouraged to see support for allowing these changes to be more thoroughly evaluated before imposing additional and potentially damaging additional regulations as expressed in a speech last month by an SEC commissioner.
In another favorable development the Commodity Futures Trading Association recently confirmed their are positive view of the liquidity and stability of money market funds for investment of customer funds.
This followed an exhaustive multiyear review taking into account a variety of factors including the SEC's 2010 regulatory revisions.
As I said before we are favorably disposed to measures that would enhance the resiliency of money funds while maintaining the critical features that make money funds vital to 30 million investors and to our capital markets.
These 30 million investors who currently maintain $2.7 trillion in money funds do so in large measure because they desire daily liquidity at par for their cash investments from high-quality funds and managers.
We believe the changes that fundamentally alter money funds like floating NAVs or imposing redemption fees or 30 day holdbacks on a portion of redemptions will cause many investors to abandon money funds.
This change has potentially enormous negative systemic consequences.
Moving money out of money funds could be expected to move to banks where it is ill-suited for lending and will require additional capital and FDIC insurance while making the top banks even too bigger to fail.
Perhaps money would also move to less visible less regulated alternatives which raises the question of adding to systemic risk.
Imposing capital requirements on a product that already has basically 100% equity capital is not necessary nor in our view advisable.
Capital held against money funds may gave the illusion of protection to investors who are informed clearly that money funds are investment products that are not guaranteed.
This concept was of course illustrated by the reserve fund.
Imposing sponsored capital is another way to set in motion the device of money funds.
In our view it is very unlikely that sponsors of money funds holding capital against these funds could avoid consolidating the funds under their balance sheets.
The implications to banks and other fund sponsors are likely to be enormous and detrimental while the benefits are uncertain at best.
In our view this will lead to sponsors moving away from offering money funds.
In the event the changes are made to fundamentally order money funds and cause investors to exit short-term debt issues will be hurt by the destruction of an efficient and effective funding mechanism that has worked well for over 4 decades with very few exceptions.
Recently 23 corporations and large business organizations including some of the biggest companies in America -- Alcoa Boeing Johnson &amp; Johnson Kraft CBS Safeway and the U.S.
Chamber -- sent a letter to the SEC that stated that in their view no further money market regulatory changes are necessary and that the options under consideration will have a dramatic negative consequence in American businesses ability to raise the capital necessary to restore economic stability and job creation.
To us and many others who use and depend on money funds the best course of action is to recognize that the changes made to date combined with a multi-decade record of regulatory and market success have resulted in a product that works well.
This was illustrated as I've mentioned by the challenging and successful road test during many of the challenges of 2011.
Turning to longer-term assets Federated continued to benefit in the fourth quarter from investors increased demand for high-quality income-producing strategies in both equities and fixed income.
Looking first to our equities business we had another strong quarter of sales.
We're especially proud of producing positive equity fund and separate account flows in the fourth quarter which differentiated us from much of the industry during this period.
We continue to see strong results from the strategic value dividend strategy.
The mutual fund product had a second consecutive quarter of net flows in excess of $1 billion.
During 2011 the overall strategy more than doubled to reach $10 billion in assets under management and is the biggest part of our equity franchise.
Our sales and marketing teams continue to have success at expanding distribution and promoting this strategy during a period where income-oriented equity investments are top-of-mind with investors and the financial media.
Far from a fad we believe that this is a return to basic investing and we expect investors to continue to move to successful income-oriented strategies like ours.
We have a variety of equity products in this area and believe that the others have good growth potential as well.
As we mentioned last quarter we are seeing some lift in the flows for the International Strategic Value Fund as well.
The fund recently passed $100 million in assets and both gross and net fund sales were up substantially from the prior quarter.
While the numbers are small relative to the domestic strategy we see considerable and complementary growth opportunities.
We are advertising and promoting these strategies together.
The Clover Small Value Fund also produced positive net sales in the fourth quarter while the Pru Bear flows turn negative and the Kaufmann products had negative flows though at a slightly lower level than the prior quarter.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had 6 equity strategies and a variety of styles that have top quartile 3-year records and are well-positioned for growth.
Capital income Pru Bear InterContinental our International Leaders Fund our International Strategic value and the Kaufmann Large Cap Fund.
Equity fund flows are positive for the first 3 weeks of January though we've seen a slight pickup in redemptions in the Pru Bear fund as the equity market has been generally strong.
Fourth quarter flows in equity separate accounts were positive and higher than the prior quarter driven by the aforementioned strategic value strategy.
Equity RFP activity grew about 28% in 2011 compared to 2010.
We won 2 new accounts in the fourth quarter with about $270 million of assets expected in the next couple of months.
We are seeing particular interest in equity income the Clover Small Cap Value and our international equity strategies.
Now looking at fixed income.
Net positive fund flows increased substantially in the fourth quarter versus the prior quarter led by our Total Return Bond Fund Ultrashort funds our GIP [ph] product which is known as the Capital Preservation Fund.
We also saw good results in high yield which moved from negative flows in Q3 to positive in Q4 on very very strong records.
At the end of the year we had 9 fixed income strategies with top quartile 3-year records.
Fixed income flows are running solidly positive for the first 3 weeks of January.
Fixed income separate accounts also had net positive flows with inflows in the high yield.
RFP activity for fixed income was up approximately 11% in 2011 compared with 2010.
We won 3 new accounts in the fourth quarter and have about $500 million of related funding expected in the next couple of months.
We continue to see interest in a variety of areas including active cash short duration high yield and other corporates and emerging market debt strategies.
Now turning to fund investment performance and looking at quarter end Lipper rankings for Federated's equity funds.
45% of rated assets are in the first or second quartile over the last year; 16% 3 years; 17% 5 years; and 75% 10 years.
For Bond Fund assets the comparable first and second quartile percentages are 46% 1 year; 35% 3 years; 68% 5 years; and 73% for 10 years.
Looking at Morningstar rated funds 34% of rated equity fund assets are in 4- and 5-star products as of year end and 55% are in 3- 4- and 5-star product.
For Bond Fund the comparable percentages are 39% are 4- and 5-star and 79% 3- 4- and 5-star.
As of January 25 managed assets were approximately $373 billion including $287 billion in money markets $32 billion in equities $54 billion in fixed income which includes our liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $255 billion.
So far in January money fund assets have ranged between $254 billion and $259 billion and have average right above $256 billion.
Now looking at some distribution highlights for the full year 2011 growth sales of equity funds increased 21% with sales growth strongest in our wealth management bank trust channel.
Gross SMA sales increased 69%; fixed income fund sales increased 15% with the best growth coming from our broker/dealer channel.
As you may recall in 2011 we added 12 sales and sales support resources in the broker/dealer channel and 3 consultant relations managers in the institutional channel.
We will continue looking at this in 2012 and on the broker/dealer side we have more than doubled our sales since 2008.
Several acquisitions and -- looking at acquisitions and our offshore business we recently announced the acquisition that will broaden our international business.
We're in the process of acquiring the London-based Prime Rate Capital Management.
In addition to approximately GBP 1.5 billion sterling of assets we will incorporate their experienced team in our money market business and gain sterling euro and dollar-denominated usage products to boost our growth prospects abroad.
We expect this deal to close in the first quarter.
We continue to seek additional alliances to further advance our business outside the U.S.
and we continue to work to grow our current offshore businesses organically.
In the U.S.
we are seeking consolidation opportunities as they come available.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Taking off first at the money market fee waivers.
The impact to pretax income in Q4 was $26.1 million.
The increase from last quarter can be attributed to Treasury money fund products as changes in other fund categories roughly netted out.
Interest rates we had higher assets higher revenue higher distribution expense and higher waivers.
Gross yields were in the mid to upper single-digit.
In certain funds we exhausted further sharing of waivers with intermediaries and as a result distribution expense waivers as a percentage of revenue waivers decreased from 74% in the third quarter to 71% in Q4.
Based on current assets and yield levels we think these waivers could impact Q1 2012 by around $27 million in pretax earnings.
Revenue in Q4 increased from the prior quarter the first sequential quarterly revenue increased since Q4 2010.
Revenue gains from money market and fixed income assets were partially offset by lower equity revenue while average equity assets were up slightly from the prior quarter the blended fee rate decreased due to changes in the asset mix.
Contributing to the lower blended fee rate where redemptions as Chris mentioned in the Kaufmann products and Pru Bear and overall growth in equity separate account assets.
Compared to the prior quarter revenue from money market assets increased by $5.5 million to $99 million due to higher yields and higher assets.
Operating expenses increase primarily due to higher money market-related distribution expense also from higher yields and higher assets.
In particular in our prime funds higher yields during Q4 led to an increase in revenue and an increase in related distribution expense.
The rest of the distribution expense increase was due mainly to higher yields and higher assets and the other money fund categories again with related revenue increases.
Looking forward and holding all of our other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields will likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 36% from these levels.
And the 25-basis-point increase would reduce the impact by about 2/3.
Looking at expenses comp and related expense was higher compared to Q3 which included a change in the accruals that had been made up to that point.
And also we had higher incentive comp because of increased sales in Q4.
As I've already said distribution expense increased due mainly to the impact of higher yields and prime money funds which resulted in higher distribution-related payments to intermediaries.
In nonoperating expense Q4 included $900 000 in investment gains compared to $2.3 million in investment losses in the prior quarter primarily related to consolidated fees investment products.
Looking at our balance sheet cash and marketable securities totaled $322 million at quarter end and our net debt was about $41 million.
Cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flow from operations and availability under present debt facilities provides us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as well as the ability to fund related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new product fees and other investments and capital expenditures and debt repayments.
I'd like to turn the call over to Debbie now to talk about money market conditions briefly.
Thanks Tom.
I thought I'd just give a quick update on the European debt situation as that continues to be an ever-evolving issue within money market funds that the good part about today's environment is that presumably ratings downgrades were actually a good thing and were welcomed by the overall money market community.
Various of the 17 European countries that were under review by S&amp;P were downgraded several weeks ago followed by just last week several of the various banks within those countries also under review being downgraded.
Many were affirmed but a few were actually downgraded.
And as I said that was actually received from a market perspective with open arms and spread tightening.
I guess France at AA+ with no uncertainty is better than France at AAA with the uncertainty of a downgrade not unlike what we saw with the United States back in the third quarter of 2011.
Spreads are in at this point.
There's a lot more liquidity available.
Liquidity both from external sources such as the ECB and other central banks opening up longer-term facilities from a liquidity perspective to various European banks.
But in addition increased liquidity has come from the marketplace.
Certainly I do believe we're going to continue to hear debates and discussions about Europe going forward.
The Greek write-downs are still uncertain but at this point I think what the market realizes and what the media has begun to focus on is that it doesn't much matter whether Greece is written down within these banks by 20% 50% 75% or 100%.
These banks are very large very strong very profitable and will continue to survive.
It remains to be seen how long the situation continues to evolve.
And certainly it is something that we expect will be with us over the next several years not just several months.
But we do see the tide having turned.
Italy 10-year transactions at this point are under 6%.
Spanish 10 years are under 5%.
These are very firm in our levels that haven't been seen for quite some time and it's a result of the excess liquidity and the additional funding that these banks are getting in the short term markets from the money markets.
The other items that I just touched upon is the most recent FOMC meeting and what was initially an announcement that was very disheartening that talked about short-term rates remaining unchanged or at extremely low levels into the end of 2014.
Previously in the summer of 2011 the Fed had mentioned that this might go on to mid-2013.
And again their announcement this week initially affirmed the expectation that low rates would be with us for even longer into the end of 2014.
What then became a little bit more comforting in the context of the release several hours later when the text of the FOMC meeting was released was in 2 parts.
Number one the Fed is now providing additional information as to what members individually think not necessarily by name basis but on a dot system basis.
And when you look at the dots and how they are arrayed by expectation for interest rates to actually start moving up from a policymaking perspective they're with -- there are actually 3 of the 17 members of the FOMC committee that think it will be in 2012.
Another 6 that think it will be in 2013.
Now there's a larger amount that are in 2014 but it actually showed that there is enough dissension and enough discussion and debate within the FOMC itself that certainly we're not too disheartened after seeing this with the original announcement that takes low rates into 2014.
The other thing that became apparent in the second part of their announcement was that low rates doesn't necessarily mean 0 to 25 basis points on a Fed funds target rate.
50 basis points 75 basis points even 100 basis points with the 1 hand 1% on a Fed funds target basis is still overall very low from an accommodation perspective from the Fed.
So we don't necessarily think that 2014 proclamation means that funds stays at that 0 to 25 basis points.
So it was one of those announcements where we were glad there was more to come.
Okay thank you Debbie.
And we'd like to open the call up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Roger Freeman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed this earlier.
Did you say when you expect the or what are you hearing with respect to when the SEC may actually make its proposal? Mary Schapiro had said that she expected or wanted to release a proposal before the end of the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If you -- I guess my question is if you ultimately -- if the proposal was something that required 40 basis points or so 30 40 basis points of capital to be held but there was 7 years to get there 5 to 7 years is that a model that you can manage to it as a non-bank money market sponsor? Probably.
It would be an unnecessary and unwise move.
And as I have said before the concept of that fidelity put out which was obviously known as the fidelity buffer is something that could work because that comes out of the fund and is simply taking yield from today or number of years.
There isn't that much yield today.
But taking yield from certain times and then putting it into the fund up to some number 35 or 40 basis points that does not cause the fund to trigger a 105 and there by jump $0.01.
So stuck within that context is workable but unnecessary.
Research Division</strong> Okay agreed.
My only other question right now is just can you just remind us from an investor perspective and look at your -- whether it's high net worth whether it's corporate customers that use money market funds clearly there's still a lot of money sitting in money markets or earning basically nothing so clearly not yield-sensitive.
What are the advantages really particularly corporate of keeping money day to day in money markets versus moving those into a demand deposit? How much of it is just structural in terms the way they're set up today and there's really no incentive to move because the yield differential is not there.
But assuming equal yields like what are the other benefits from investor perspective being in this? Roger it all depends on what kind of client.
Most of the clients that we have are looking at it as a cash management system.
And therefore broker/dealer types are basically looking at it to maintain market share in order to write tickets to enhance the client relationships that they have.
On the bank trust side you have an enormous array of systems that are geared around the $1 net asset value taking care of fiduciary duties and maintaining cash as a cash management system.
And there's a lot of intricacies to that and 40 years worth of buildup of systems and activities in that world.
In the corporate world when a corporation like the ones I've listed wants to use money funds some of them are looking at it from both sides i.e.
as an issuer and on the Treasury side as a user.
The advantage they get out of using a money fund even at no yield is that they get what they really want and what is really important to them which is daily liquidity at par.
So a lot of them will diversify their holdings among various money funds and use it as their cash management tool.
So to summarize it really depends on what type of client.
But the theme throughout is as you have detected that it is a cash management system overlay as compared to some yield or investment-oriented overlay.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it sounds like the infrastructure around money markets makes -- offers better ability to manage cash move money around then say the banking industry does out of just traditional bank deposits.
Yes that is very true.
It's not only easier but you have a lot more variety of the type of fund that you would go into.
You can go into a government fund an all government fund an agency fund a Muni fund.
You can go into a prime fund different types of prime funds.
So you get a broad array of how you might want to play the game.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the long-term side so particularly in the equities but also in fixed income.
You've seen a lot of traction.
Any color on kind of the concentration? I know you guys may have mentioned this strategic value dividend but any other products where you're seeing traction on the income side? And then alternatively any other products that maybe you don't have out there in this distribution channels but you're looking to launch that could diversify those flows but even increase them just given that there's -- it continues to be demand for those types of products.
Well on the equity side that's oriented around income we have a full family of funds that we had advertised historically as the power of income which include the capital income fund with an excellent record the equity income fund with an excellent record and then the 2 I commented on in my remarks the strategic value dividend fund and its companion the International Strategic Value Dividend Fund.
So that's a pretty good array of equity-oriented income products.
And if you allow income to mean income then I don't think you really mean for me to catalog all of our fixed income product but I could certainly do so if that's where you wanted us to go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on the expenses I think I understand what you guys were discussing in terms of some of the pressures given where the waivers were but I guess going forward when you see flows coming in into the money fund products obviously this quarter very strong when you think about the pros and cons of all that money coming in one is still attractive and then meaning is it still attractive? And then two is just when the Treasury yields continue to compress it sounds like you couldn't share anymore of that compression with the distributors.
Like what is that level where Treasury has get to where that pressure is a bit more than what we're used to? Meaning you can't pass on the additional pressure from the waivers.
Mike it's Ray.
The answer to the first part is yes.
It still attractive.
The yields vary across the different asset categories but with the exception of the Munis the yields picked up in all of the categories at least point-to-point looking at Q4.
And that's why we go through how much of our revenue comes out of the money market.
Now to the second part of your question you really have to drill even into the Treasury funds because we have a subset which would be the minority of the Treasury assets but around $20 billion out of say $50 billion that are in primarily a product 1 product that doesn't use repo.
And as a result those yields where the other ones are today gross yielding around 10 11 12 basis points.
That product is more around 4 and the difference being the repo yields are higher than the build yields.
And so in that particular product that's where -- that's behind the comment about we've exhausted the intermediary sharing portion of the waivers and we still have positive revenue coming from that product but not as much and there's not an offset to the waivers.
We would continue to offer that product.
We would expect to continue to offer it because there are clients who either want or need a product that is strictly T-bills without repo.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
This is actually James Howley filling in for Michael.
Just a couple of quick questions here.
It seems like you guys got some way to take advantage of the environment where a number of your products were in demand whether it be the strategic value which you touched on in the equity side and some of the fixed income and money market funds.
Is that type kind of generally remain pretty soft here so kind of curious to get your view on how you see rerisking and whole process playing out assuming that markets remain constructive here.
Do you guys think it will be a fairly quick rerisking or you think it will be a little bit more of a drawn out process and just based on what you guys have seen over the last few years.
Well it's hard to say when you look at the flows that we've had.
There's clearly been a movement toward the income side of equity.
And we phrase that in the past as kind of a step out into rerisking.
It's driven by yield but you also have of course the underlying opportunities that an equity investment would have.
We're seeing increased demand into other spread on the fixed income side and the spread products like high-yield like emerging market debt.
So you see the beginning of movement in regard to rerisking but as to the eventual pace of it and how that could be affected by -- obviously by markets and it's just very hard for us to say.
We still are seeing the flows into the dividend oriented equity funds.
And it's probably worth noting too that you look at the month of January and we have products like for example the Kaufmann funds that have moved just isolating the month of January to the top center categories again but with better treatments for international investments in the equity markets and better recognition of the quality of the companies that they've had in those portfolios.
We've seen a pretty dramatic reversal there.
So we try to be positioned and have products for wherever the demand moves to.
And then just kind of touching back to regulatory changes here.
Obviously you guys spoke about that earlier but how much is that playing to your capital management strategy if at all? The potential for capital buffers come into play when you're thinking about either buybacks dividends or M&amp;A opportunities? Yes.
We took out a loan a couple of years ago and still have a pretty decent sized loan out.
And we basically have kept most of that on the balance sheet.
Remember I said we only have $41 million of net debt and availability of $200 million under our revolver while we have assets of $322 million on the balance sheet.
So we're keeping that here at the home team and I always refer to it as risk management and potential M&amp;A and contingent payment items.
So we put them all together and risk management would cover what you're talking about in terms of capital-type issues.
Our next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the fee waivers and I apologize if you covered this already but it seems like you -- the sharing of the pain varies according to product and channel.
Is it possible to just go over your major buckets of money market assets and discuss how the sharing of waivers varies so that as we see the assets move around during the quarter we can try to model that better? Yes Cynthia.
That's probably a more detailed discussion than we could -- will be appropriate for the call.
But that would be something I'd be happy to help you with off-line.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then you mentioned Kaufmann which I guess is bounced back.
Is the mix shift that affected the fee rate in the fourth quarter has Kaufmann bounced back enough so that it's back to say 3Q level or not quite yet since I presume Pru Bear is down? Ray's talking about bounce back in performance for a 3-week period.
So the flows I don't think there's been a change in the...
Slightly less worse.
Yes slightly less in the flow.
Yes you can't model that in to say that's turned around.
But we're looking at it on a longer-term basis and if the performance holds we would expect the flows to change around.
So it's a combination of obviously of the NAV and the flows.
I don't think you can change your modeling on it yet though.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And since you have a few more products working well I mean is there going to be any change you think in what you spent on marketing? We're still committing and you saw Barron's last week.
We had some adds in there in the dividend base and we're still continuing that in the first and second quarter.
The jury's still out on the second half of the year.
We'll see how things go.
Research Division</strong> Okay because it looked like it came down in the fourth quarter.
But is that just seasonal or because it...
We were up for the year in 2010 or 2011 and the way you have to account for that -- I'm just trying to look at the quarterly numbers.
Research Division</strong> You think of it on a year-over-year? In Q3 when it shows up there as a $3.9 million the advertising and promotional when we basically -- when we commit from accounting perspective to spend the money even though some of it is in the fourth quarter we have to account for some of it in the third quarter.
So I wouldn't view that the downtick of $300 000 $400 000 from Q3 to Q4 really means anything.
I'd look at it on an overall yearly basis and that's why I say we're doing stuff in the first and second quarter and the jury's still out in the second -- in the fourth and third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And overall just looking ahead for some of the smaller expense items the travel and occupancy and stuff like that are you expecting any changes that we should know about? Well we'll have some more occupancy with our Prime Rate deal over in the U.K.
I don't think there's any major items in there.
And travel the fourth quarters always seems to be higher a lot of stuff happening then.
That's why you see a little bit of an uptick there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe if I could just 1 regulatory question which is I guess I've been reading that one of the commission members is in favor of basically studying rather than acting right now.
I'm just wondering from your point of view does it make much of a difference if a single commission member is really an advocate for pausing like that? It makes a big difference.
There are 5 votes as to whether to come up with a proposal and what would be in a proposal.
And so we basically meet with all of the commissioners and have over the last many months in order to tell our story and show them that the single biggest success I know of that the SEC has had consistently over the last 40 years has been the regulation of money funds.
And they don't blow their own horn enough and I think they are getting pressure from other places like the Fed and perhaps even threatened by the Fed to be FSOC if they don't do what they want.
So we tell the story and hopefully we're able to convince not just one but us and others or be able to convince 3 of the commissioners that they've done enough.
And with the legal thing that's behind the curtain there it's basically the fact that the Administrative Procedures Act has been a little bit of a stumbling block for some SEC rules like the proxy access rules and the independent chair rules because there's been no study yet of the unintended consequences/cost benefit analysis of what doing something really crazy to the money funds would do.
And so they end up losing in the DC District Court and that doesn't help anybody.
And that whole spirit adds back to the ability to talk to each commissioner and hopefully have at least 3 of them see the wisdom of hitting pause mode on this whole thing.
Our next question comes from the line of William Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Given that that commentary trying to appreciate Debbie's view as well of lower for longer is there any thoughts of having a more structural reduction in the gross fee rates and maybe the management fees and the money market business to potentially make them more competitive versus demand deposits? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question is I may have missed this in your opening remarks I apologize I joined a few minutes late would you give an update and so from an acquisition perspective I heard the discussion around U.S.
consolidation but I didn't hear anything on the non-U.S.
story beyond the money market platform in U.K.
Is that still an area of interest to you or is the...
Oh yes.
We are continuing to look there.
The Prime Rate thing is a good thing to have happened and came out of that effort.
But the main push there is for variable net asset value product primarily equity product as I've described in these calls before and that effort continues.
And we think that we're going to be seeing more product come on to the market and we talked about this before on these calls because of the effect of Basel III on some large banking institutions in terms of how they will handle their investment management operations from a capital standpoint.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one.
Just listening to you give out your assets as of couple of days ago it seemed a little low relative to your comment just given the market gain so far this year and your comments around the fund flows is there an element here that I'm missing is there an outflow and liquidity portfolio or an assembly manage account that's negating some of the absolute growth in the assets? No Bill.
I mean we're up in all the categories.
So all of them are higher than they were coming into the quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First with rates low for longer can you talk about the appetite for participants to sell businesses and particularly money market fund businesses? I know you've been doing some tuck-ins here and there but what's the appetite for larger companies to sell like stuff the size of Alliance? And then is that something that will be interesting to you or would you prefer kind of the smaller deals? Well when you use the words sell you have to be very careful because sell implies lots of money trading hands.
And as you know the structure of the way we've done a lot of money fund deals is where if there are payments they are over time based on assets staying there if there is money available.
As regards to our appetite we have appetite to do good solid money fund deals for the long haul.
And so we would continue to do that.
As to specific firms and their relative size and how they would look at it I just can't comment on those specific firms.
As to any one of them at any one time there is as we've talked about before an oligopolization occurring in this business and this lower for longer theme will influence that more so.
Before -- I think it was in the end of 2007 there are 300 people offering money funds.
Today there are less than 100.
And so that will continue.
So it's really hard to say how some of the other big people will look at it.
But we would be happy to receive any big people's calls on that subject.
Research Division</strong> You answered the question.
And I hear what you're saying in terms of process you see actions that they have addressed the flaws in the money fund business.
But should we see floating NAVs or redemption barriers I guess specifically redemption barriers? What arrangements have you made or contingency plans have you formulated to better position Federated in the new regulatory world? The reason I ask is I think investors are concerned that you disagree so strongly with this regulation and the potential proposals that you don't have a plan and I'm sure you do.
But what is the plan particularly for the redemption barriers? Well I will reemphasize the second part of that then get to the first.
Yes we think this is the opposite of "let's enhance the resiliency of money funds if they go down either of the lines that you have set".
And so what you will see as a contingency plan is first to fight it initially then to fight it regulatory-wise and legal-wise as much as can be done.
There will be time as if this actually occurs wherein they don't want disruption in the marketplace as the money funds unwind.
And so that will all be planned out and be organized on that way.
Then you get to the next level where you start shining up all your other products.
You've got usage products you've got separate accounts and you've got a short and intermediate and Ultrashort Bond Funds that if everything else becomes illegal for inappropriate reasons and inappropriate results then you have to face that reality.
And so that's the area where the plans would go.
There are a number of clients who are large enough that they could sustain separate accounts.
They don't want to go there and we don't want to go there.
But if forced to that's certainly an area that could be covered.
So with the collection of international accounts usage type accounts separate accounts and perhaps even areas where they are not covered like common funds you can begin to take care of some of the cash management needs in a less efficient way and without nearly as much help to the capital markets as the current environment.
Research Division</strong> In terms of legal so if SEC comes out with a proposal puts it out for comment again you disagree.
What legal actions can you take against the industry take against the SEC? Can you sue the SEC? Well what happens is when they come up with the rule that's what I meant by the proxy access rule comment and the independent chair comment that the SEC proposed rules had not done their homework in terms of studying the potential effects i.e.
the cost benefit.
This went to court and the information that the SEC supplied was deemed inadequate under the Administrative Procedures Act.
And therefore the rule was overturned.
And so that is a path that we would go down.
Research Division</strong> And how long does that delay the process? Does that buy you a year 2 years? It depends on whether or not you're able to get the injunction at the moment of impact and then you fight it out in court.
So that would all be a court-type determinations.
And it could delay it indefinitely.
They have not restored the independent chair rule.
They have not restored the proxy access rule.
And I think if they did any really thorough analysis of the cost benefit of the kind of ideas they're talking about on money funds they would discover it's a whopping negative.
And so the study would probably end up delaying it forever because these ideas like changing NAV and withholding redemptions are not designed to enhance resiliency of money fund.
They're designed to eliminate them or seriously curtail their existence.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly for Debbie.
I think it was mentioned that money market fund fee waivers are up.
With time yields up LIBOR up GC repo up a little bit why are the waivers expected to increase? I know there's like a billion moving parts but those are just a couple.
I think twofold.
Number one an increase in assets overall which continues into the first quarter of 2012; and number two as Ray was mentioning with regards to our Treasury products Treasury funds can't buy floating rate security.
So even our government agency assets would benefit from the LIBOR curve Treasury assets don't.
Treasury assets are priced off of the LIBOR curve.
They have their own curve.
And Treasury repo products although they do a little bit better than Treasury singly without the repo involved still are basically the safest but the lowest yielding products that we have and those -- the mix of those assets growing on a proportionate basis is also part of a determination of the yield waivers.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> At the risk of being redundant I just want to ask again about money fund reform.
Just curiously to get your thoughts on the SEC and the Fed and in terms of how well they understand the different dynamics going on in the industry.
I know there have been discussions on both side of the equation.
So what's your thought on how well they understand all the dynamics who's impacted and that sort of stuff? Well I don't have a lot of evidence that they have done the studies on the effects of taking money funds out or seriously diminishing their participation.
So I think that they are rather driven by higher goals that they have in mind and because the first round of changes in 2a-7 were basically designed around enhancing the resiliency of money funds and on this next round it doesn't seem to do that.
And therefore it must be oriented towards some other goal which has not exactly been articulated.
So I try to take them at their word that what we're after is enhancing resiliency and not killing and that should take off the table all the things that tend to kill or severely injure.
So I can't say what kinds of internal studies they have done.
They haven't shared them with us.
And I'm just not aware of them.
They are all smart people though and are very knowledgeable.
And I think they should therefore have done the homework first before they come up with these ideas which don't help the funds don't help us don't help our stock and don't appear to have in the public domain anyway a lot of evidence as to how they could do what they want to do and not end up breaking a lot of things with a lot of unintended consequence.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful color.
I appreciate that.
Just one follow-up from me on your Prime money funds.
Just from a client mindset how willing are they now given recent macro news essentially improving picture in Europe to have you guys take incrementally more credit risk in Europe and beyond? And when does that come back do you think? What are the key steps to get there? I speak to our institutional clients on if not daily maybe an hourly basis.
So I think I have a pretty good feel for their tolerance from a risk perspective at this point.
They are clearly wanting to understand and have better knowledge about what happens from a credit markets perspective in particular that focus has been on the euro sector over the course of the last 18 to 24 months.
I think at this point and I said this earlier on the call Greece doesn't matter much to them anymore.
They can see fires burning.
They can see negotiations going from 50% to 75% to 100% write off.
And they understand at this point because of disclosure and increased communication that it doesn't much matter with those institutions that Federated Prime funds as well as the industry for the most part are using at this point.
Certainly it takes on some negative media attention when you have that sort of an outcome.
But the underlying fundamentals of the large banks that we're using at this point in time are still strong even when you end up with somebody like a Greece or a Portugal having problems in the marketplace.
So I think at this point there's enough better knowledge and understanding in the marketplace that it's not a just say no attitude it's an attitude of looking at and understanding why it makes more sense from a diversification perspective from a yield perspective from a liquidity perspective where these banks are supported heavily in the marketplace not only by individual participants but by the various regulators too to have these banks within the portfolios.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Groshans with Height Analytics.
LLC</strong> I know we've done a lot on SEC regulation of money market fund rules and I appreciate your time on all these topics.
I guess my last conversations with people looking into it it seems that the 3% hold back for 30 days was gaining some traction and it seems like that -- I guess what I don't understand between the 3% hold back versus floating NAV is like they both seem somewhat similar in that when you have a withdrawal the clients not getting all their money back and there's potential for risk at that point.
So can you just tell me your thoughts on the difference between the 2 I guess if those are some of the lead causes that the SEC is looking at? It's like the choice between you want to die by hanging or by bullet.
And so you can go one way or the other.
You have got it exactly right because they each injure the basic concept of daily liquidity at par.
And at the next level they each injure severely the operational things that have been set up for 40 years to use money funds.
The variable NAV is obvious because people then have no anticipation of coming in going out and all of their internal transactions at the dollar.
And on the hold back a fiduciary has a heck of a time figuring out that the fiduciary is going to put himself or herself into an investment where 3% of it doesn't come back out for 30 days and then what happens then.
And if you look at those clients as we have many on an omnibus basis the idea that an omnibus client is going to figure out how to do the 3% hold and who is really holding and who isn't is bizarre.
And you can have all the computer wizards in the world and you're going to spend a fortune trying to figure that one out.
So in each of those cases it's just choose your different poison.
LLC</strong> Okay.
The omnibus account is quite important.
I think some people just don't realize that.
I guess the other thing though that comes down is the issue of sweep accounts.
Like -- it would seem like sweep accounts just couldn't function if we had any type of hold back.
That is correct.
LLC</strong> And either for Federated or for the industry do you have a sense of what percent or what dollar amount of assets tend to be in sweep? I don't know if you want to do it on quarterly average...
No I don't know that.
I do know this that I know of no industry participants that like either the variable NAV or the 30-day 3% hold.
So whatever sweep size is nobody likes it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I mean I know floating NAV I mean people have been outspoken against that for well over a year now.
And as redemption feature I guess start percolating in the fall a little bit now the discussion went from having a redemption feature in a stress environment to having a permanent redemption feature.
If the industry itself both the users and providers of the product are resistant to floating NAV or to hold backs and the SEC says it's moving forward doesn't that kind of push us back into the box of capital buffers? Well I don't know about that.
If it is as I said earlier in the call if the deal is closed around the fidelity buffer idea that's probably something people could agree to.
But if it goes beyond that then it's going to have a lot of the same problems that the other one has.
One of the other comments on capital that the SEC could that the other SEC Commissioner made was that a lot of the discussion on capital and I know you've done some work on it is that either the numbers are so big that it makes the industry uneconomic or it isn't big enough to take care of a problem it allegedly is going to take care of.
And so in either case it doesn't work.
And the other arguments I would make here are that remember we're dealing here with an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 which was passed in order to enhance disclosure.
This is not a capital regime like the banking industry.
This is a disclosure regime where you're supposed to tell people what is going on in these funds.
And then toying with the fundamental rights like the right to redeem it's just antithetical as is adding capital into a fund where basically it's all capital already which is what we mentioned earlier on the call.
LLC</strong> And I appreciate all your time on this.
Just one other question because you did bring it up.
And I've been hearing very similar to what you said is this concerned that the Financial Stability Oversight Council is really staring over the shoulder of the SEC on this whole topic.
And I guess I've gotten some feedback that there's a real concern specifically from industry participants that if the SEC comes out with something that appears to be insufficient in the eyes of the Stability Oversight Council that FSOC would then or can not definitely would but can call the entire industry systemically risky and therefore the regulatory oversight moves from the SEC up to the FSOC council.
I think that's where I struggle Chris is because it seems like the SEC has to do something otherwise they risk losing their authority over the entire industry.
And perhaps we filed a rather lengthy commentary on the FSOC and this whole subject of the authority of the FSOC and the legitimacy of either doing an industry which is a big question or doing companies that are less than $50 billion.
It's almost like you have to then do a backflip in order to conglomerate asset managers and we wrote very very lengthy commentary on this which is publicly available and would be very very well worth looking at.
Because it takes a long long time to get through this whole process of FSOC-ing and yet it is being used as you pointed out as a lever or a threat as against the SEC.
And this is part of the deals that we're dealing with that came out of Dodd-Frank.
And I don't think that there is a legitimate way for them to actually do the FSOC thing.
I could be wrong of course and there are others who disagree but that's been our position.
And I think it is very well-articulated.
So in the end it is as it has been for 40 years where Federated continues to fight for the existence and legitimacy and efficacy of money funds consistent with the desire of 30 million clients 5 000 of our intermediary clients and 2.7 trillion.
And with that I would say that we are at 10 after 10 which is past the post usually...
Mr.
Hanley we have come to the end of our allotted question time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to you for any closing comments.
Okay.
Well thank you.
That will conclude our call for today and we appreciate your time.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines and log off at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Raymond J.
Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you.
Mr.
Hanley you may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
We will make some remarks this morning before opening up for questions.
Leading today's discussion will be Chris Donahue Federated's CEO and President; and Chief Financial Officer Tom Donahue.
And also joining us on the call is Debbie Cunningham who is our Chief Investment Officer for Money Markets.
And let me say that during today's call we will make forward-looking statements.
And we want to note that our actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning.
I will start with a brief review of Federated's business performance before turning the call over to Tom to discuss our financials.
Looking at cash management.
Average money market fund assets were up $2.5 billion from the prior quarter.
While the quarter end total's decreased by $11 billion to $245 billion or about the same level as at the end of the third quarter.
Money fund asset balances grew over the latter part of Q4 and then decreased in Q1 a pattern that we've experienced before.
With the impact of expected tax seasonality this month and the recent closing of our acquisition of Prime Rate Capital Management money market fund asset levels are running at approximately $245 billion this week and our market share remains over 9%.
Higher yields for government securities and repo in the first quarter led to lower yield related fee waivers.
Tom will comment further on the impact of these waivers and Debbie will discuss money market conditions and our expectations going forward.
During the last few quarters' conference calls I've made comments and answered questions concerning potential SEC proposals for further regulation of money funds.
I discussed Federated's belief that money funds were meaningfully sufficiently and properly strengthened by the extensive regulatory revisions to Rule 2a-7 in 2010 and that these enhancements were tested and worked successfully through a series of challenges in 2011 that included the U.S.
debt ceiling crisis credit downgrade at the U.S as well as worries over Greek defaults and European bank solvency.
As you well know our position is in opposing the SEC's draconian proposals for floating the NAV and/or instituting redemption restrictions and capital requirements.
We are among a group a broad group in fact of businesses state local government agencies trade association public-interest groups and financial institutions that believe these proposed rules will destroy the functionality utility effectiveness and the very essence of money market funds which are so vital to our economy.
I want to take a few minutes on this call to take a look at some of the myths that have been promulgated and that continue to be spread by regulators and many in the media.
The first one that we continually hear is that money market funds were either at the center of or significantly exacerbated the financial crisis of 2007 2008.
This is not true.
However if one accepts this falsehood then arguments in favor of preserving the utility of money funds for 50 million investors and the multitude of municipalities corporations and other entities who depend on money funds for efficient funding can be politely ignored.
The facts however tell a different story.
The meltdown occurred because of certain financial institutions placing enormous leverage bets on the sub-prime housing market amplified in many cases by derivatives by the Fed's easy money policy.
And when those bets went bad the complex web of counterparty arrangements between different institutions threatened to cause a general collapse of the system.
Importantly only one money market fund lost its $1 NAV in September of '08.
And that was only after an 18-month period that saw the failure of dozens of banks mortgage lenders and other financial institutions causing the credit markets to freeze up.
This is often paired with the falsehood that money funds are susceptible to runs and were bailed out by taxpayers.
One run does not make susceptible.
The reserve fund failure in September of '08 followed an unprecedented period that saw the collapse of Lehman Brothers and a number of major financial institutions on the brink and inconsistent responses to these events by the government.
As counterparty risk perception increased institutional investors redeemed 15% of their prime money fund shares followed by large inflows into money funds backed by government debt.
For every dollar that left the prime funds $0.63 flowed into government money market funds.
The conclusion that should be drawn from this is investors were not fleeing money market funds but were rather reallocating their assets to the most conservative investments in a reeling market beset by failures and near failures of many leading financial institutions unpredictable government policies and widespread concerns about whether prime funds could continue to sell assets into the frozen commercial paper market.
The steps then taken by the Fed and the treasury were not a bailout of money funds but rather especially in the case of the Fed actions were necessary and proper steps to restore liquidity to the financial system as a whole.
It is important to remember that when the dust settled the reserve primary fund investors lost less than a penny on the dollar and no taxpayer funds were needed.
In fact money market fund companies paid $1.2 billion to the U.S.
Treasury for this insurance that was never used was not requested and was not wanted by many in the industry.
This is a remarkable contrast to the cost of the bailouts of 2 800 failed banks an additional 592 banks that required assistance transactions as it's known at a total cost of $188.5 billion from 1971 to -- through 2010.
Today money market funds hold 30% or more of their assets in 7-day available cash and 10% in overnight available cash.
Money funds now required by the SEC to have more than double the amount of cash on hand that was needed in September of '08 to pay the redeeming shareholders.
Another tall tale that's being bandied about concerns the perceived evils of Europe and the view that a significant source of credit risk in the money market funds over the past year has been the large exposure to global banks which happen to be headquartered in Europe.
One official even suggested that money funds could somehow be a conduit for smuggling an unexpected economic problem on the continent back into the U.S.
Here again the facts paint a different picture.
The majority of U.S.
money markets holdings of European-based institutions are invested in securities of banks that have U.S.
affiliates that serve as primary dealers.
Primary dealers are financial institutions designated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to serve as trading counterparties in the Fed's implementation of monetary policy.
These dealers are required to participate every time the U.S.
Treasury auctions its securities.
They are central players in the U.S.
financial system.
Among the instruments of these primary dealers that U.S.
prime money market funds hold half are repurchase agreements.
Such repos are fully collateralized usually with U.S.
Treasury and government agency securities that these institutions hold precisely because they are primary dealers.
More than half of the prime money market funds European holdings are in banks headquartered in the United Kingdom Sweden and Switzerland all countries that don't use the euro for currency.
Total prime money market fund holdings in the Eurozone amounted to about 15.5% of their portfolios and virtually all of these holdings are in large banks with global diversified operations headquartered in Europe's strongest economies and with very short maturities.
One of my favorite fairy tales is the misplaced concern that investors believe that money market funds are guaranteed and there is confusion with banks and checking accounts.
Nowhere in any money market fund prospectus or market material is there anything that would convey that the money market fund is guaranteed.
In fact the risks are clearly and repeatedly noted in bold print not FDIC insured may lose value no bank guarantee.
Institutions hold more than 60% of the $2.6 trillion  invested in money funds and these professionals certainly know the difference between a money market fund and a bank account.
The oft mentioned loss experienced by reserve fund shareholders clearly demonstrated that the non-insured status of money market funds was a reality.
Further a recent survey by Fidelity Investments shows that the vast majority of retail investors also know that money market funds are not guaranteed.
Lastly in promoting the devastating idea of a floating NAV some folks have been putting forth the fanciful notion that the $1 NAV the hallmark of money funds is somehow made up or illusory far from it.
Money fund shares are priced to the dollar on a daily basis not simply because they want to pay shares at $1 but because the underlying assets are required to meet very stringent high credit quality liquidity maturity requirements that are regulated under current SEC Rule 2a-7.
And those regulations were strengthened in 2010 as I mentioned by the SEC based on recommendations and working with money market fund providers.
The ability to transact at the $1 NAV provides real benefits to corporations government entities and other money market fund users by allowing them to use automated cash management processes facilitating same-day transaction processing shortening settlement cycles reducing float balances and counterparty risk.
These are measurable benefits that translate directly into lower cost of capital and higher returns on assets.
With so much at stake for the tens of millions of individual investors corporations government entities and nonprofits who depend on money market funds for cash management and raising funds it's important to set the record straight and for us to repeat the sounding joy of the beauty of money market funds.
Now to turn to our equity business.
We continued to see solid demand for income products.
Particularly our strategic value dividend strategy which led to positive equity product flows in Q1 for combined funds and separate accounts.
The Strategic Value Dividend Fund had its third consecutive quarter of gross sales in excess of $1 billion and had net sales of over $400 million.
The SMA strategy had about $700 million of net new flows and we added a couple of institutional accounts as well.
The fund and the SMA each have positive flows over the first couple of weeks here in the second quarter.
The team continues to execute its long-term strategy investing in high-quality stocks with a target yield of 5% and a target dividend growth rate of 5% even as the market shifts to favor various styles and various periods.
For example in Q1 growth categories showed the strongest returns and income strategies were lower by comparison.
Our international strategic value dividend value fund and the Clover Small Value Fund also produced positive net sales in Q1 while Pru Bear and Kaufmann flows were negative.
At the end of Q1 we had 6 equity strategies in a variety of styles with top quartile 3-year records and 10 strategies with top quartile 1-year performance.
The first quarter saw a strong performance from the suite of Kaufmann products.
The flagship Kaufmann Fund reached the top 4% of its category in the quarter.
The Kauffmann Large Cap was in the top 3% for the quarter and top 14% for the trailing year and top 7% for 3 years.
The small cap fund ranked first in its category for the quarter and top 15% trailing 1 year and top third for 3 years.
Our international funds had a very solid first quarter performance as well.
Equity fund flows were negative for the first 3 weeks of April but at a slightly lower pace than the first quarter.
Q1 flows in equity separate accounts nearly reached $1 billion and were 3x greater than the prior quarter.
Drivers were the strategic value strategy and a large Clover Small Cap Value mandate.
While RFP activity shifted significantly from equity to fixed income in the first quarter we are continuing to see RFPs for Strategic Value Dividend both the domestic and international side and Clover Small Cap Value equity strategy.
Now turning to fixed income.
Net positive fund flows continued in the first quarter at a healthy pace.
While we did see a $500 million redemption in the total return government Bond Fund due to a client's asset allocation change the rest of our bond fund flows were comparable to the strong level we saw in the fourth quarter.
Total return Bond Fund continues to lead flows.
The multisector category has been strong for us.
We also saw solid inflows into emerging markets corporates and high yield where we have a group of outstanding products.
Ultrashort Bond Funds and our stable value product continue to produce inflows.
We ended Q1 with 7 fixed income strategies with top quartile 3-year records and 10 strategies reaching top quartile on a 1-year basis.
Fixed income flows are running solidly positive for the first few weeks of April.
Fixed income separate account flows were slightly negative.
We have about $600 million from Q4 and Q1 wins expected to fund in the second quarter with most of these going into funds rather than to separate accounts.
RFP activity for fixed income in the first quarter was up significantly as I mentioned.
We continue to see interest in a variety of areas including active cash short duration high yield and other category -- and other corporates and emerging market debt strategies.
Turning to fund investment performance and looking at quarter end Lipper rankings for Federated's equity funds.
53% of rated assets are in the first or second quartile over the last year 21% over 3 years 17% over 5 years and 76% over 10 years.
For Bond Fund assets the comparable first and second quartile percentages are 60% 1 year; 35% 3 years; 66% for 5 years; and 70% for 10 years.
As of April 25 managed assets are approximately $364 billion including $275 billion in all money markets $33 billion in all equities and $56 billion in all fixed income which includes our liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand in about $246 billion.
So far in April money fund assets have ranged in the funds between $240 billion and $248 billion and have averaged $245 billion.
Looking at the distribution highlights.
We believe that our efforts to add sales capacity is paying off.
In the institutional channel where we added 3 consultant relations positions last year we have seen higher RFP and related activity levels and have enhanced these critical relationships.
In the broker/dealer channel we've added 12 new sales and support positions so far with another 8 planned in 2012.
In this channel fund sales have grown from about $6 billion in '08 to over $14 billion in '11 and reached $3.6 billion in the first quarter.
The number of advisers doing business with us is up from 29 000 in '08 to 36 000 in 2011 and got close to 37 000 here in the first quarter.
As regards acquisitions and offshore business we recently closed the previously announced acquisition of London-based Prime Rate Capital Management adding about GBP 2.7 billion or USD $4.3 billion in managed assets.
The Prime Rate Capital Management client reception of our joining forces has been outstanding and we are excited by this opportunity to continue to grow and develop these relationships.
We are looking for additional alliances to advance our businesses outside of the U.S.
and continue to work to organically grow our offshore businesses.
In the U.S.
we are seeking consolidation opportunities like the recently announced Fifth Third acquisition $5 billion which is planned to be closed during the third quarter.
At this point I'll turn it over to Tom to discuss the financials.
Okay.
Thank you Chris.
Taking a look at first the money fund fee waivers.
The impact to pretax income in the first quarter was $22.3 million.
The decrease from last quarter was due mainly to higher rates for treasury and mortgage-related securities.
Based on the current assets and expected yields we think these waivers could impact Q2 by around $20 million in pretax earnings.
Looking forward we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 40% and a 25% -- 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
I want to emphasize that the variables impacting the waivers can change frequently and they do.
Revenues in Q1 increased 6% from the prior quarter even though we had one fewer day in Q1.
Reflecting the strength of our diversified business mix we saw revenue gains in all 3 asset categories: money market equity and fixed income along with increases in average assets in all these categories.
Operating expenses increased from Q4 primarily due to higher compensation and related expense and higher distribution expense.
The comp increase included the resetting of incentive comp accruals and seasonally high payroll and benefit cost partially offset by a reversal of $1.6 million of incentive pay that was estimated and accrued in 2011.
We expect the comp line to be up about $0.5 million in Q2.
Distribution expense increased primarily due to lower money fund yield waivers.
Intangible asset-related expense decreased by $1.2 million primarily due to a mark-to-market adjustment in an acquisition-related contingent purchase price liability.
We expect the Q2 intangible expense to be approximately $1 million.
Nonoperating expense for Q1 reflected $2 million in investment gains primarily related to consolidated seed investment products.
Looking at our balance sheet cash and marketable securities totaled $311 million at quarter end and our net debt was about $42 million.
Cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flow from operations and availability under present debt facilities provides us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as well as the ability to fund related contingent payments share repurchase dividends new product fees and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
That completes my portion and I'd like to have Debbie Cunningham give her comments on the money market view.
Thanks Tom and thanks Chris.
I just thought I'd give you a little bit of an update from an interest rate perspective and then pause a [ph] second on our European exposure.
From an interest rate standpoint certainly the first quarter was much much better than the fourth quarter of 2011.
Overnight rates in the first quarter were averaging in the high teens to low 20s.
This would be for the most part our treasury and mortgage-backed repo.
And that's compared to many days in the fourth quarter of 2011 where rates were in a very low single-digits to 0 and a few days even in the negative territory.
On the treasury side.
[indiscernible] direct treasury securities were also much improved from the standpoint of the fourth quarter into the first quarter.
Today 3-month treasury rates are about a 9 basis point level and 6 months are at about a 14 and that was about average for the first quarter somewhere around those levels 7 to 8 to 9 for 3 months and then anywhere between 10 and 15 in the 6-month area.
From a standpoint of comparing that to the fourth quarter where treasury securities were generally in the 01 to 03 range with many many days in the negative territory was a vast improvement for our funds that are required to buy treasury securities or repo backed by treasury securities.
LIBOR was slightly different in that LIBOR actually came off a bit by about 2 basis points across the curve for our prime funds that generally are buying securities based on LIBOR although our government agencies floating rate securities are also in that camp.
The reason for the improvement in LIBOR rates i.e.
lower LIBOR rates marginally had to do with improvements from a European credit perspective which takes me to the second category which is exposure to Europe and our usage of European banks.
Chris gave a great overview of that in the context of the myths that are continued to be discussed from a money market fund reform perspective.
From earnings perspective we continue to monitor these banks.
We're starting to get earnings in as well as detailed portfolio information on their loan book for the 2011 so new assessments into 2012 time period and those continue to be an improving picture.
Unfortunately anything bad about that is the extra liquidity and credit that are being afforded to these large banks are not necessarily generating much from a economic standpoint in the Eurozone.
Instead [indiscernible] the liquidity and the credit that they are being afforded for these banks is actually being used to improve their balance sheet which is a great thing from a credit perspective for those of us in the money market sector who own them.
But it is definitely impacting to some degree the flow or growth rate in the European sector.
Having said that we continue to use all the same banks that we used in the fourth quarter of 2011.
They are the largest banks in the world.
They include banks in the Eurozone as well as outside of the Eurozone.
We continue to have exposure that is probably right around the 35% to 40% level on any given day and that compares to what were exposures of around 40% to 45% generally during most of the 2011 time period that is not because of any kind of direct cut back or intentional retreat from those banks.
It's just that their levels of funding have improved much and we have found other alternatives to their purchases that are actually more important than better relative value for our underlying prime portfolios.
So the continued usage of them is something that you should expect going forward.
And with that I'll turn it back to Ray.
Thanks Debbie.
And at this point we'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions for me.
First do you get the sense that some institutional clients may have started to pull back on their use of money market funds just with all the uncertainty out there on the regulatory front? And then on the flip side do you think we could see a step up in demand assuming we ultimately get some direction from the SEC in terms of which path they ultimately choose to pursue? Well we haven't seen a diminution in use of money funds by institutions.
Okay you can look at what we talked about in our remarks as the normal for a decade's activity where the assets increase in the latter part of the year and then decrease as we head into tax season.
But we have not detected a diminution in institutional use of money market funds at all.
And I don't know what would be the effect of the SEC coming out with -- saying they aren't going to come up with a proposal or something like that to increase the demand.
I think the demand is the demand.
And that I just don't have a way of figuring out how many customers are not in the funds because they are concerned about something that the SEC is about to do.
I'll add to that because I do speak to clients on a daily probably hourly basis meeting with them regularly.
And certainly none that I have met with are currently changing their mode of operation for money market funds.
They're asking questions about potential change and what they might need to do if in fact those changes were problematic in the future but they're certainly not changing their habits in the current market.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe a question for Tom.
If we exclude the impact of the fee waivers from kind of both the revenues and expenses it looks like the underlying operating margin has been pretty consistent over the last few years.
So what's the outlook for margins particularly assuming the mix continues to skew toward equity and fixed income strategies? We would hope that it improves and there's a lot of efforts here to invest where we need to invest properly.
Chris mentioned that the broker/dealer sales additions have been valuable to us and we're going to continue that this year.
So we're investing there.
We're continuing the technology investments that we think obviously with the Prime Rate deal we've -- investment there's 10 new employees over there and offices and things like that.
But we hope to improve it.
If you get upticks as we've been seeing in the equity and the fixed we should get better margins.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping to touch base with you on capital deployments.
Given the uncertainty around reform as you mentioned now is that -- how much are you kind of on hold or keeping some dry powder while that's an unknown and how do you think about from here in terms of your strategic priorities for your capital? The activities on the regulation side as regards money funds don't impede us in the least.
In fact if you really think about it would cause us to think more positively about doing more diversification moves.
So we continue to look for international partners and domestic roll-ups and acquisitions right at pace.
And if you look at our financial statements we have over $300 million in marketable cash and marketable securities and a $200 million revolver and a considerable amount of borrowing power in addition to that.
So our attitude is to continue doing the money fund business and looking for acquisitions and growing organically in the fixed income and equity space as we've discussed.
The other 2 big factors in there are paying a dividend and you see we're continuing to pay our dividend and share buybacks which was 50 000 shares in the last quarter and not as big as we've done in other quarters but that could change.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
Just a quick follow-up then on the reform front.
If we talk about institutional client demand maybe with a floating NAV if that were to happen in terms of the demand for the product which of your clients do you think would be most to least sensitive to some of the reform proposals out there? Well I think that -- if you're talking about the changing of the NAV from talking with our clients it would be a universal departure from the use of money funds because what they want is daily liquidity at par.
And if you change the NAV it disrupts their systems the legal situations they have on cash management and the whole point of what they've been doing for 3 or 4 decades.
So it'd be across the board.
There was a recent report put together by a group called Treasury Strategies where they surveyed the treasurers and they basically said that 80% of them would meaningfully reduce or eliminate their use of money funds if they change the NAV.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
Just one quick other question for me and then I'll jump back in.
In terms of flows so far in April on the equity side I apologize if you mentioned this but on the Prudent Bear Fund just curious to get a sense from you as to how volatile that's been.
Obviously we’ve had outflows in the first quarter but I'm wondering if that is kind of reverted back in April and any other funds that you see at the margin really taking out this quarter versus last quarter? Yes Matt it's Ray.
The Pru Bear Fund in the first couple weeks of quarter has improved on its pace relative to really the last couple of quarters recognizing we’re only looking at 3 weeks’ worth of data.
But it's not far from being breakeven not having outflows.
And so we've seen over the 3-plus years that we've had the product that it does change pretty quickly to market conditions.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Chris just to sort of go back to your first 15 20 minutes of comments on the money markets.
So two-part question one is just given what seems to be a little bit stepped up discussion and debate on your end is there something that you're sort of sensing coming out that might have an adverse outcome? And then the second part is I've been reading that the -- part of the delay with the SEC may be the fact that with the G-20 incrementally focused on the regulatory form [ph] including the shift to floating rate NAV I'm just sort of wondering if you could maybe comment on what you sort of see on that front as well.
And I have a follow-on question.
Okay on the sensing of anything that's going on we don't have a sense of that.
We don't know whether they are on the brink of a proposal coming up with a proposal.
We did note that Mary Schapiro in her testimony earlier this week commented that she was getting recommendations from her staff.
And that's a little bit different than saying as she said back in November that they were going to have her proposal in the first quarter.
So I just can't give you a better sense than that.
The reason that we don't think a proposal is a good idea and are therefore optimistic of our position is because the proposal is such fundamentally poor policy.
And we think that therefore good policy ideas will win out.
Now what is influencing the SEC whether it is the G-20 the Fed the threat of having jurisdiction taken away by FSOC or other political things or whatever you really have to ask the SEC in terms of what are their motivations.
Our position is that good policy will win out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So and just my follow-on question's just coming back to flows for a moment I was writing as quick as I could.
You mentioned that the mutual funds are in a little less negative sequentially.
So if you are getting good growth in the Strategic Value Fund and the Prudent Bear's moving toward breakeven where are you seeing the weakness and maybe you could talk about the dynamics of that weakness maybe on a sequential quarter as well? But Bill the comment was that the flows are a bit less negative.
So it really -- the underlying trends are about the same as you identified.
Continued improvement on the income products in addition to strategic value.
We've seen a couple of the other income products like our capital income fund has actually gone into positive flows which have been in a negative position for several periods before this quarter.
And that's a fund with an excellent long-term record and one that our salespeople are increasingly focused on.
So I would say the improvement generally continues to come from the income strategies.
Pru Bear is as you pointed out less of an offset from a redemption standpoint.
The Kaufmann products remain in net redemptions although as Chris pointed out the Q1 performance was outstanding and we hope to see that continue.
Our next question comes from Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chris maybe just one more on the money markets.
So I think a lot of your comments makes sense.
And I think where just in this environment where even though there's a lot of things that makes sense sometimes from a regulatory standpoint other things happen.
So and I think when you guys look at the possibilities that are out there and then when talking to your clients if we were to get something like a floating NAV where do you think that might money does go like meaning is it banks is it Ultrashort duration Bond Funds is it offshore? And then are there ways for you to capture some of that business if it is that scenario? Well the answer to the question where the money goes is I think where the regulators want it to go which is overwhelmingly back into banks.
So you have a situation develop where the regulators are trying to push money into the big banks as against the 50 million investors.
So that would be the overwhelming thing.
Now of course there are other options I've mentioned them on here on the phone on these calls before you mentioned a bunch of them.
It can go into unregulated products it can go into LGIPs it can go into common funds collective funds it can go offshore and into things that haven't even perhaps been developed yet.
And yes we have looked at and continue to look at many of these alternatives but understand that none of them are as good as strong and valuable to the economic system as the money market fund because putting all the different clients into the same kind of fund is a huge advantage in the diversification of the client base especially when you're required to know your client.
A lot of the things that I just catalogued are specific to individual type investors.
Only certain investors can be in an LGIP which is a state plan.
Only certain investors can go in a collective fund.
Only certain investors can go in a common fund.
Only certain investors can qualify to go offshore et cetera.
So yes there are some things that can be done but nothing is as good as the money fund.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe on the equity funds just based on the performance that you gave the 3 5-year looks a little bit on the weak side and this quarter the outflow has picked up.
So when I look at that versus the separate accounts I just want to know the nuances like is the separate accounts really being driven by the Strategic Value Dividend and then in the funds besides Prudent Bear and Kaufmann a few of the things that you pointed out is there any other funds that are weighing on that? Just because when we look at the performance it looks like there might be other some issues there.
Well in terms of the overall mandates on the separate account side what we're seeing is -- and I mentioned some of this in the remarks is that the bunch of wins that are going to be funded that we talked about are across the board.
They're fixed income core short term govy intermediate govy small-cap growth large cap value strategic value.
So it's a good range of products.
Mike and then just specifically on the first quarter the composition of the separate account flows.
It certainly was weighted toward strategic value in the SMA version.
But also we're seeing some institutional account wins and that was a product that historically would not have been an institutionally focused product.
But in today's yield environment is something that we're seeing traction on.
We're getting increased RFPs related to that.
So we still think that has a long way to go.
Importantly the other big component of the inflows in the separate accounts in the first quarter was a very nice $200 million plus win on the Clover side in the small value mandate where they have a very competitive record and it's another area where we're seeing interest.
So we pointed to the 6 strategies that cross-style box is there's income in there there's international there's the Kaufmann Large Cap.
And so we certainly feel like from a saleability standpoint we have enough of products for our salespeople to be out there with good products for the clients.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Rahul Nevatia for Ken Worthington this morning.
We've got a couple of questions.
First one is probably in line with what people been asking about.
Can you talk nature of mutual fund redemptions this quarter? Was it more from the retailer institutional side? And maybe you can tell us in which customer segment was it bank trust broker or corporate cash et cetera? So I'm just trying to dig in further into the reason for redemptions.
Is it rate sensitivity or something else? Are you talking about the money market funds or the fixed income and equity funds? Research Division</strong> Mutual funds fixed income and equity.
Fixed income and equity.
I don't know that we would've seen any meaningful variance across the channels.
It's really more reflective of the product mix.
So I would not overlay a channel view to the redemptions.
Research Division</strong> And do you think it was more due to rate sensitivity or anything else that you saw redemptions across mutual funds and money market? I could not hear that question.
Research Division</strong> I said that would you associate any of the redemptions to rate sensitivity or anything else in both mutual funds and money funds? I think what you really have to do is look at each individual product.
The reasons for redemptions from say something like a Pru Bear Fund would be very different from the reasons for redemption from a strategic value dividend.
If you look at that product which is very successful still getting traction we're expanding distribution I mentioned the institutional interest.
We actually had some clients who had to pull back a bit on their allocations because of how much that product had appreciated in the prior year it became too big a part of their model.
And so on an absolute basis the redemption number went up but the underlying reason was actually not a bad one.
So it really would need to be a product-by-product analysis.
I would not overlay a macro like interest rates to the -- given the breadth of our products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more question if I can sneak that in.
What are the assets for the Clover small cap value? We can see it from retail side but I'm trying to get an idea of what the total assets are and how much capacity there is in that fund.
The total assets in the mutual fund is about $200 billion and -- a little bit under $300 billion.
And at some point yes we would look at capacity but we're a ways away from that and we're actually benefiting there from some of the other folks who are capacity-constraint.
It would be multi-billions and it will be determined by when the portfolio manager determines that that's where the number should be.
Our next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the fee waiver guidance I'm just wondering is that assuming steady rates versus current levels? And is there any seasonality to repo rates because my understanding was repo rates sometimes fall in 2Q? Debbie could comment on the rate outlook and has a bit already Cynthia.
I would just say in looking at the numbers going forward it's mostly a snapshot of about where we are now with a little bit of subjectivity in there for thinking that we would expect the repo rates not to be as high in the second quarter as they were in the first quarter.
Remember too that the waivers are a rate volume analysis and so the asset decrease that we saw in the first quarter was pretty highly weighted toward the government agency products and the treasury products and so another way for waivers to go down is for assets to go down.
And we don't expect those kind of decreases step downs like we saw in the first quarter as Chris pointed out a lot of that is due to seasonality.
But the waiver outlook is both rate and volume of assets.
And as far as the overnight rates are concerned certainly the reason the seasonality is associated with that rate in the second quarter has a lot to do with tax season.
So we have seen rates fall off on an overnight basis from the high teens to low 20s that we saw in the first quarter.
That's a reflection of the treasury not needing as much funding given the tax receipts that have started that have come in during the month of April and in that capacity rates certainly don't look like they would ever go back or at least not in the near future go back to the level the abysmal levels that they were in the fourth quarter of 2011 but the expectation is that they will remain similar to where they are today which on an overnight basis is right in the double-digit low to mid double-digit so 10 13 15 basis points somewhere around there maybe 5 to 8 basis points off where they were in the first quarter.
And Debbie had earlier mentioned the improvement in the T-bills.
And you may recall from last quarter we had a discussion about particular funds that done by repo that has to buy only treasuries and so the improvement in the bill rates also has entered into that forecast Cynthia.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That helps a lot.
And then on the money market separate accounts.
It looks like the balance is basically flat.
And I thought the tax pool   [ph] balances usually rose in first quarter.
Is there anything new going on there? Tax pool [ph] actually starts to generally come in in the fourth quarter receipts generally starts to [indiscernible] in the fourth quarter of each year continuing into the first quarter and then at the end of that first quarter start to flow out again as people are using their allocation.
I think generally speaking though the lower level of rates has probably kept that a bit more muted this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then let's see.
Just a question on the buyback.
It seems smaller than usual smaller than certainly a year ago.
Any particular reason? No.
We look at it every day and determine whether we think we should buy or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe one last question which is -- you touched on this a little bit but just to clarify the large inflows to equity separate accounts in the first quarter what was the mix of institutional versus SMA and do you expect basically the same mix going forward? Is the SMA due to any particular new win on a platform or was it just sort of filling assets coming into that in to the strategic value in Clover? It would have been about 2/3 SMA and 1/3 institutional.
And the SMA would have overwhelmingly been strategic value dividend it would have been increases primarily in platforms where the product’s already situated.
But as I mentioned we do continue to develop new distribution opportunities for that product really across channels.
But the bulk of that would've been because of increasing use and allocation models and the outstanding performance of the product.
If you take the other 1/3 of the separate account flows that would've been the Clover Small Value and we actually also had some money come in on the growth side money managed by Kaufman.
Research Division</strong> And the 600 you're expecting is that sort of the same 2/3 SMA 1/3 institutional or are those institutional wins? The 600 would be wins from institutions but for different reasons they’re choosing to fund it into funds.
And so those will be mutual fund primarily fixed income and short duration type of product.
Our next question comes from the line of Edwin Groshans of Height Asset Management.
LLC</strong> One of your peers about 1.5 weeks ago stated that money market reform should be a priority and that the industry really needs to coordinate with the SEC because of the concern that the Financial Stability Oversight Council would then step in and direct the SEC and the industry what to do.
I just want to get your thoughts on that type of comment.
I would agree that the concept of money fund regulation is very important.
The reason that the industry got together in starting to comment on potential SEC proposals was that it was back in the first week in November when the head of the SEC said that they were going to come up with a proposal.
And the way I characterized it when I heard about it from the Wall Street Journal when they asked me about it was that it was a choice of which way to die by bullet or by hanging.
And so when that's the choice on the regulation side that's not really much of a choice at all.
And that's when the discussions between the industry groups and the SEC took a different turn because the regulators were determined to have either one of the above of a changing NAV redemption holdback or capital.
And all of a sudden the goals of the regulators were different than just enhance the resiliency of money funds because each one of those in various ways devastates the money funds.
So different people have different views and I guess maybe if I had a couple hundred billion dollars of money from the government that wanted a different angle on it maybe you'd hear a different song.
LLC</strong> Don't you get concerned especially with Mr.
Volcker out there.
He seems to have the ear of people in DC.
And he consistently pushes the money market funds as shadow banking or regulatory arbitrage and things along those lines.
And it seems to me that if the SEC and to your comment if the SEC loses authority or gives up some authority or jurisdiction over money market funds then it goes to the Financial Stability Oversight Council which would seem to me that Treasury the OCC and the Fed are not really receptive to the money market fund industry.
They you are exactly right -- they are not receptive and it's very very fundamental as to why.
As I've said on these calls before the Investment Company act of 1940 and the securities acts in general are designed to protect the interest of investors as their sacred code and they do this through disclosure not through the elimination of risk which even the President's Working Group said if that were your goal you were going to have Draconian results.
Whereas the Fed's goal is safety and soundness broad views based on what the Fed does or thinks at a given time.
And these are not together type attitudes.
These are in conflict.
And that's why you get completely different regulatory regimes.
So we believe that the money market funds have been properly regulated on the 2a-7 and the pricing rules by the SEC and that going further is the same as saying if you put them into FSOC that they should be banks.
And the former chairman of the Fed that you're referring to has tried to kill money market funds since back in the '70s and ‘80s and has never given up and I don't expect that he or they will.
In fact it was in July of 2010 after the new 2a-7 regulations had been put into effect and before Dodd-Frank was passed that the Fed published a report that basically said as you're recounting that money market funds are shadow banks an intentionally pejorative term.
And then I will read it for you "It is imperative for policy members to assess whether shadow banks should have access to Fed backed stocks permanently (it means that they are regulated as banks) or be regulated out of existence." So we know where they are coming from on this and it hasn't changed.
And that's why we continue to repeat the importance of money funds in the marketplace and the use that these money market funds have made in improving things for many types of customers over the decades.
LLC</strong> But again I think don't you get kind of concerned that it’s those policy makers who will basically drive the Financial Stability Oversight Council's direction? It seems to me like the industry needs to sit down with the SEC and hammer something out.
And it would seem to me like the pressure's building that it has to be sooner rather than later because the risk is rising that Financial Stability Oversight's going to step in and their regulatory regime is going to focus somewhere around risk-based capital levels.
The FSOC is a vote of I think it's 10 or 11.
And for them to do anything the Secretary of the Treasury has to get engaged because if the Secretary of the Treasury doesn't vote in favor of that designation then it doesn't happen.
And our view of that is that you've got to through a process that has begun to be articulated by the FSOC organization and that there are opportunities to comment along the way about the efficacy of the designation of a fund an industry a collection of funds an adviser some of the above any of the above.
So it's not just a simple thing.
And yes we have concerns about that.
But at this point it functions more like a form of regulatory extortion of one group of regulators that have an agenda to get control of the money funds versus the other who have done a very good job of managing them for the purpose for which they were intended and that is the protection of investors.
We'd be happy to if you have other questions to -- you can call in we'd be happy to talk to you.
Our next question comes from the line of from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick.
If we look at the mix of equity AUM it's at the highest level as it's been in quite a while but it looks like maybe more of that mix is in separate accounts.
Can you just talk a little bit about the fee rate which overall for your firm has ticked up? How much of that's really just being driven by equity mix versus maybe the fee waivers rolling off? And then also the shift from maybe equity funds to separate accounts how should we think about  what the fee rate implications are there as well? Yes Mark clearly we had improvement in the overall fee rate and it was a function of the lower waivers on money funds primarily.
The equity blended fee rate really didn't change very much.
It actually ticked down very slightly sequential quarters.
The prior quarter it had dropped a couple of basis points but there was hardly any change in the most recent quarter.
And as you point out it really is a function of the mix.
Separate accounts generally would have lower fees than a mutual fund.
But really it's the product mix and it's also the contribution from a market standpoint.
So the asset growth the last couple of quarters we've had pretty good levels of NAV appreciation and when you look at the individual products that that hits and the underlying fees that's really what led to the stabilization in Q1.
There are no further questions at this time I'd like to hand the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Okay.
Thank you Luis.
That will actually conclude our call for today.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Management Company Second Quarter 2012 Analyst Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Raymond J.
Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Today we plan some brief remarks before opening up for your questions.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated CEO; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
Let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements.
And we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning.
I will begin with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance before turning over the call to Tom to discuss our financials.
Looking first at cash management.
Average money market fund assets were down $8 billion from the prior quarter while the quarter end totals decreased by $7 billion to $239 billion.
The second quarter has some seasonality from tax payments in both April and in June and our market share remains over 9%.
The impact of yield-related fee waivers decreased again in the second quarter and Tom will cover this in more detail later.
Regarding the market share it's interesting just to look at the history where it is running at about 9.5% today.
At the end of '11 it was running at about 9.4% 8.7% at the end of '10 8.5% in '09 and '08 and about 7% in '07 and 5% in 2000.
On the regulatory front it has been reported that a document outlining new money market fund regulations has been circulated by the SEC Chairman to the other commissioners.
While the proposal is not publicly available prior comments from the Chairman indicate that the proposal includes the choice of floating the NAV or imposing redemption restrictions on money funds in combination with the capital requirement at the fund level.
These ideas have been previously floated and even in their discussion form they have drawn extensive negative reaction and commentary from money fund investors issuers businesses state and local municipal finance authorities various members of Congress U.S.
Chamber of Commerce the ICI and individual money fund management companies.
The reason is it's because it's very poor policy.
I have previously covered these proposals and won't go into a lot of detail today except to say that so far as they violate the primary tenants of a money fund daily liquidity at par with a market yield they will end money markets funds as we know them if they are proposed and enacted.
The consequences will be severe including higher funding costs for states municipalities and other government entities leading to either higher taxes cuts and services or more money moving into the largest already too-big-to-fail banks and money moving to far less transparent unless regulated investments including separate accounts offshore accounts and things perhaps we have not even thought of.
These Draconian measures are based on demonstrably false premise the money funds are prone to destabilizing runs and somehow backed by the taxpayers.
There's no proof that either of these ideas is true.
There is however the unparalleled 40-year record of successful money management providing real tangible benefits to our financial system.
So again we advocate the regulators study the positive impact of the 2010 Rule 2a-7 amendments and conduct a thorough and rigorous cost-benefit analysis of any further money fund regulations.
The facts will then show that further rules are not necessary and in fact are likely to do serious harm to our financial system.
Now turning to our equities business.
Reflecting industry and market trends equity fund gross sales decreased from the levels of the last couple of quarters while redemptions also decreased net flows were modestly negative.
We continue to see demand for income products particularly the strategic value dividend and capital income strategies each showing positive fund flows.
Our international equity funds also had positive flows with good results from international leaders and international strategic dividend fund.
The Kaufmann Large Cap Fund moved into positive flows for the second quarter.
At the end of the second quarter we had 8 equity strategies in a variety of styles with top quintile -- top quartile 3-year records and 6 in the top quartile for 1 year.
And these include funds like the Capital Income Pru Bear InterContinental and Strategic Value Dividend.
Equity fund net flows are essentially break-even for the first 3 weeks of July and much of the improvement is due to the Kaufmann Small Cap Fund moving from negative flows in the second quarter to positive flows early in the third quarter.
Second quarter flows in equity separate accounts were positive led by the strategic value strategy.
We are continuing to see RFPs for strategic value income both domestic and international as well as other strategies and the Clover Small Value equity strategy as well.
Now looking at fixed income.
Net positive fund sales were nearly $2 billion in the second quarter more than twice the $835 million of net sales that we had in Q1.
And institutional win of $500 million that funded into our Government Ultrashort Fund and solid inflows into corporate's high-yield stable value and multi-sector products led to these strong results.
We also won a large multi-sector mandate that included funding from the assets invested in our total return bond fund product accounting for most of the reported $1.6 billion net exchange from funds to separate accounts.
The Total Return Bond Fund continue to show positive sales in Q2.
We ended the second quarter with 11 fixed income strategies with top quartile 3-year records and 11 strategies reaching the top quartile in a 1-year basis.
These included funds with a lot of variety like Federated Bond Fund a number of our high-yield bond funds intermediate government and emerging market debt among others.
Fixed income flows are running solidly positive for the first 3 weeks of July.
Fixed income separate account net sales were also positive.
We added significant new mandate funding in the municipal group with an increase of $300 million and also added new wins in funding in our high-yield strategy.
RFP activity for fixed income remained elevated compared to the level seen in 2011.
We continue to see interest in a variety of areas including stable value high-yield emerging markets total return core abroad and active cash short duration.
Turning to overall investment performance and looking at quarter-end Lipper rankings for Federated's equity funds 51% of the rated assets are in the first or second quartile over the last year; 47% 3 years; 16% 5 years; and 73% over 10 years.
For Bond Fund assets the comparable first and second quarter quartile percentages are 43% for 1 year; 39% for 3 years; 65% 5 years; and 65% for 10 years.
Looking at MorningStar rated funds.
41% of rated equity fund assets are 4 and 5 star products as of year-end and 57% are in the 3 4 and 5 star product area.
For Bond Funds the comparable percentages are 42% at the 4 and 5 star level and 78% at the 3 4 and 5 star level.
As of July 25 managed assets were approximately $357 billion including $267 billion in money markets $32 billion in equities and $58 billion in fixed income which includes our liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $240 billion of the $267 billion in money markets.
So far in July money market fund assets have ranged between $238 billion and $243 billion and have averaged $240 billion.
Now looking at distribution.
Our results indicate that the investments we are making in sales capacity advertising and other areas of sales and marketing are working.
Second quarter gross fund sales topped $7 billion a new record for us.
Our year-to-date monthly average gross fund sales are up about 8% from 2011 and up 26% from 2010.
In the institutional channel where we added 3 consultant relations positions last year we have seen higher RFP and other related activity levels and have enhanced critical relationships with institutional consultants.
We've added a number of institutional wins in a variety of equity and fixed income strategies in both separate accounts and funds over the past couple of quarters and continue to win new business.
We just announced this week that Federated was awarded the contract to manage the $9.5 billion Massachusetts Municipal Depository Trust.
The MMDT provides liquidity and bond management and provides these services for the state and several independent authorities and approximately 290 municipalities in Massachusetts.
This is an important win for Federated and we look forward to providing Massachusetts with a range of high-quality services.
We expect to develop additional state pool opportunities to add to our market-leading presence.
We expect to begin managing these assets by year-end.
In addition we expect about $250 million in equity and fixed income separate account wins to fund during the third quarter.
In the broker dealer channel we have added 14 new sales and support positions so far with another 6 to come.
We continue to build on our success in this channel where fund sales have grown for about $6 billion in '08 to over $14 billion in 2011.
And they were just under $4 billion in the second quarter.
The number of advisers doing business with us is up from 29 000 in '08 to 36 000 in 2011 and was close to 38 000 through the second quarter.
In the wealth management market gross fund sales are up 18% year-to-date compared to the year-to-date 2011 with fixed income fund gross sales up over 20% and equity gross fund sales up 8%.
As regard acquisitions and offshore business the integration of the recently closed London Prime-based -- or Prime Rate Capital Management Operation is largely completed.
Assets at quarter end were $4.2 billion.
The Prime Rate Capital Management client reception continues to be outstanding and we are actively working on growing these relationships and adding additional business.
We are looking for additional alliances to advance our business outside of the U.S.
and we continue to work to organically grow our offshore business.
In the U.S.
we are on track to close the previously announced transactions with Fifth Third for their $5 billion money market business and Trustmark for their $933 million money market equity and fixed income business both are expected to close during the third quarter.
We are looking forward for additional consolidation opportunities as well.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Taking a look at first at the money fund fee waivers.
The impact to pre-tax income in Q2 was $17.2 million down from $22.3 million in the prior quarter.
The improvement from last quarter was due mainly to higher rates for treasury and mortgage-related securities and to a lesser extent lower average assets.
Based on the current assets and yield levels we think these waivers could impact Q3 by about the same amount.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 40% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
Remember that the variables impacting waivers can and do change frequently.
Revenues in Q2 increased 1% from the prior quarter due largely to increase from lower minimum yield waivers offsetting the impact of lower money market assets.
Operating expenses increased from Q1 primarily due to higher compensation and related expenses due mainly to the impact last quarter of a reversal of $1.6 million of incentive pay that was estimated and accrued in 2011.
Distribution expense increased primarily due to lower money fund yield waivers.
Intangible asset related expense increased by about $800 000 due mainly to the impact last quarter of a $1 million mark-to-market adjustment of an acquisition-related contingent purchase price liability.
Looking at our balance sheet cash and marketable securities totaled $327 million at quarter-end and our net debt was about $15 million.
Cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flow from operations and availability under present debt facilities provides us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as well as the ability to fund related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new product fees and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
That completes my part of the presentation and I'd like to see if Debbie has any comments on the money market.
Debbie? Yes yes.
Can you hear me okay? From a rate perspective we've seen continued steadiness let's say in U.S.
rates.
Repo has remained for the most part right around the mid-teens.
1 to 6 months LIBOR has been generally lower by about 2 to 5 basis points.
And further LIBOR out through the 13-month area has actually increased by 2 to 8 basis points.
So the curve has steepened [indiscernible] with shortest rates cut slightly tighter and longest rates slightly wider.
Treasury builds around 8 basis points at 3 months and 13 basis points at 6 months has also held very steady with very little movement maybe 1 or 2 basis points up or down on any given day.
From an outlook perspective at this point with regard to the Fed we do think that because the U.S.
is slowing to some degree and has been a little bit less robust from a growth perspective than certainly what we saw the end of 2011 that any tightening from the FOMC won't occur until a bit later in 2013.
We still are not in agreement with the 2014 prediction the end of 2014 prediction from Chairman Bernanke and if you look at the information that has come out of the FOMC minutes with regards to who thinks rates will what raise to what level out at that what time? It certainly doesn't seem like there is unanimity anonymity in any form of across the various members of the FOMC either but we do think that economic growth slow down there we've experienced thus far in 2012 will impact that and take any kind of initial rate rises later in the 2013 time frame.
Let me close my remarks with just a little bit of an update from a credit markets perspective.
It's been uncharacteristically calm in the credit markets from a short-term basis.
U.S.
earnings for the most part have come through a very positive pace and despite the slowdown in Europe we've actually seen earnings progress pretty nicely in those institutions also.
What might have caused some volatility or had some concern in the quarter with regards to rating agencies in their continued barrage of downgrades and negative outlooks and credit wash negatives for the various financial institutions that are a part of the U.S.
money markets.
In fact that also has had very little if any impact on the fund and certainly on the money markets in general.
A positive impact has been an actual overall pickup in the amount of commercial paper available so a little bit more supply in that area and I'll close with the Operation Twist continuing to be a mild-positive with [indiscernible]  supply in the Treasury sector for our government-only fund.
Okay Debbie thank you and we'd like to open up the call for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first for Debbie.
Can you talk about how interest on reserves would impact the money fund business if the Fed were to take that rate down? Like how does that flow through to your businesses? And then I guess equally as important like what are your views? Is this something that you view as probable neutral unlikely? Sure.
IOER -- let's start with the second part of that first.
I think that it is the last tool it seems like at this point that Chairman Bernanke would want to invoke as a means of continued easing in the economy.
Certainly when addressing Congress last week it was only I think the third time he was asked that he actually even brought into consideration.
So I don't think it's one of the top ideas that he would use at this point certainly further Operation Twist as well as QE3 seem to be in the Q above that.
Having said that we're certainly sort of watching might happen in the U.S.
money markets play out currently in the euro-denominated money markets now granted that is a much smaller sector.
And it's playing out mostly in the context of the euro government funds whereby so the ECB lowered their rate to 0 their deposit rate to 0.
And as such banks are funding themselves right around the 0 rate because they can no longer place paper with the ECB and earn that 25 basis point spread.
They're also in some instances posting negative rates would although I don't think the market's actually buying negative rates from the banks in the euro marketplace at this point.
And that does have to do with their operational costs that are associated even with having those outstanding deposits.
And certainly when you look at then the spread for sovereign financing short-term sovereign financing the European sovereigns that are funding themselves in euros are posting also negative rates.
So presumably that same sort of situation would occur if in fact the IOER went to 0 0 here in the U.S.
What I think that will happen and again what I think will continue to be able to watch unfold is that the reason -- a good -- the reason is taking place.
The reason that they lowered their rates to 0 is so that it's easily able for -- as the banks get cheaper funding they're able to then go out and spur loans in the economy make loans into the economy and for growth with those loans.
If in fact those loans aren't being made because nobody has funding after 0 or slightly negative rates for the bank it's perversely having an effect that's a little bit opposite as to what the ECB might have initially intended.
So I think what needs to happen is some sort of equilibrium rate start to evolve that keep money market participant happy that they are funding the banks at a certain positive level which will create a little bit more supply than for the loan market for those banks to actually go out and actually help move growth forward from an economic perspective.
It's a supply and demand issue at this point and I think although we've had supply and demand imbalance this here in the U.S.
that have resulted in negative Treasury rates I think they were much more temporary than what we are seeing here in the ECB version of this 0 interest rate environment.
Having said that I think it will still be a temporary event but one that takes a little bit longer on the temporary basis to actually work itself into an equilibrium that makes sense for overall money market participants in total.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe for Chris.
Can you give us an update on your thoughts in terms money market reform during an election season and how an Obama administration or change to a Romney presidency would impact the direction of money market reform.
Like how should we be thinking about how to make our bets depending on which side wins? The way we look at this is that we do not have the luxury of trying to decide or game which side will win the election because the regulatory plans are pretty harmful to money market funds as I've said many times.
So therefore we really can't try to game the thing "Oh who's going to win? Who's going to lose?" And then "Therefore this.
Therefore that." And besides you're getting a lot of speculations.
So we are going to focus hard on repeating the sounding joy of the good public policy associated with money funds.
Now the way this thing plays out in an election year which was part of your question Ken it strikes us as rather amazing that the way this thing plays out is that somehow the effect of the proposed regulations are going to if they're implemented squish money out of money funds and into the larger banks and 56 million people have the money funds.
And I don't think they're going to be happy with holdbacks and even if they're only a $50 000-investor.
And therefore that's going to be an odd kind of a political situation when the earnings that we've talked about that people have gotten from money funds like $500 million -- $500 billion from say 1980 until today over what they would have gotten in a bank and that money would then be shifted over to the banks.
And the money would be shifted over to the banks and it just doesn't seem like the best political answer but I can't control that and I don't know how all the regulators view that kind of a position.
But that's a one comment I'd make on the politics of it.
Research Division</strong> Maybe let me rephrase it.
If Romney the Romney administration wins is it -- does money market fund reform kind of wither and die and if Obama wins and let's say we have a change and Mary Schapiro retires or steps down does that derail the pursuit of money market reform? Or regardless does it just continue forward no matter who wins? Well there could be tactical changes such like you're talking about Ken.
But overall when we've been fighting the Fed and the SEC on these kinds of businesses for 4 decades or my whole career it's hard for me to believe that any one political outcome or any one changing of the guard will eliminate what the regulators want to do which is regulate these funds out of existence.
So I think the threats will continue.
Certainly a different SEC Chairman who was not totally fixated on money funds and was working stronger on all the other things that are in Dodd-Frank that are required to be done would be better for us in terms of the money fund business.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
This is actually James Howley filling in for Michael.
I was hoping that you guys might give some color around the flow dynamics in the institutional businesses quarter as well as kind of the outlook or the pipeline going forward? And then any color on the SMA business particularly as it relates to strategic value and MDT I think would be pretty helpful.
Sure James.
In terms of the institutional flows on the equity side we continue to have strong SMA-based flows on the strategic value dividend strategy.
So that continues to be a strong plus down from say the prior quarter but still very strong in absolute terms.
On the fixed income side we really had a mixture of pluses and minuses.
As we mentioned we had a $300 million new account on the municipal side that came in during the quarter.
We had a couple of high yield accounts fund.
High yield's a very strong strategy for us very strong experienced team long-term solid record and we're seeing a lot of institutional and retail fund interest in those products.
There were some offsets to that basically from some client asset allocation decisions moving money around.
But that's what was happening beneath the reported numbers on the fixed income side.
And just generally 4 SMAs that continues to be dominated by the strategic value dividend strategy.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just circling back to kind of acquisitions.
I know you guys have been pretty active on the roll upfront for money market funds as well as couple of the equity and fixed income deals you've done.
So just wondering how prominent you continue to see that be for a source of growth going forward? And then how would you characterize the opportunity set as maybe look at some of these international embedded asset manager properties that are reported being shopped? So just kind of trying to get a level of interest there? We'll handle each one separately.
In terms of the roll-up opportunities in the U.S.
for money fund assets and other assets as well they are what we call "lumpy sales." And it's really hard to project them and it's really hard to build any kind of steady state thing where we say we expect this many to happen.
They just come in -- in lumps.
A good example is the Fifth Third one where it was back in the mid-80s where yours truly and another fellow went out and made the sales call on Fifth Third.
And now in the third quarter of this year 2012 we're going to get the assets back.
And so it's pretty hard to predict the timeline on these things and a similar kind of thing with Trustmark.
All of these people have been clients of ours for many decades and it's really tough to predict when they will decide to go.
But we think there are plenty of more opportunities out there.
If you collect up the list of money market fund purveyors there are maybe about 95 on the list.
Maybe the lowest bottom 5 really don't have any assets and a lot of the other ones in the bottom half of that list are candidates for these kinds of transactions.
Now on the international side we look at every deal that we can get our hands on on the international side.
And once again that's even harder to predict as to how that will happen.
But as you know we are adamant in getting arrangements where the culture clicks first and that's the key element.
So this is not a deal where "Oh you strike an arrangement spread some pixie dust around the marketplace declare a victory and move on." We got to live with these things make them grow and make them work.
And that's what takes the time.
And a lot of the big deals embedded in other companies require a lot of and analysis and a lot of analysis on these issues of culture.
So we continue to look for good cultural fits and develop footprints internationally.
And I know that doesn't give you a lot of meat on the bone of how we're looking at them but we think there are opportunities for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I missed the first 2 minutes of your prepared remarks.
You may have covered this in doing so but I joined just as you were talking at the tail end of your discussion around the regulatory form and it seemed that you still sort of sighting some onerous changes if you will.
So the question is we heard from Schwab that they suggested that redemption restrictions might be illegal in certain states and doesn't seem like the regulators are sort of contemplated that aspect.
And we heard from BlackRock that the SEC seems to be closer to some type of initial proposal although BlackRock has clarified their comments by saying they're most comfortable with some kind of nominal capital buffer and not at all about redemptions and certainly less so about of flowing rates.
So just given that all as a very long winded preamble to the question is at the margin are you more or less comfortable with sort of the regulatory drift that you're hearing most recently? Oh comfort is certainly not the attitude that I would have on it because the regulatory offers -- our position is pretty well dug in.
So I agree with the points that you've made and we also along before Schwab got into this file the paper with the SEC commenting on the state law and internal operations of money funds in terms of approving the kinds of ideas that the SEC and the Fed are talking about namely redemption restrictions and how you build them in in a state law structure and in an investment company structure.
And they are all very troublesome and have not been outlined as to how you solve those challenges.
So we just continue to fight on.
It's really hard for us to try and make predictions about how SEC commissioners will vote and we remain confident that the proper public policy and good public policies will win out which means that money market funds will continue.
And the proof of that is our continuing attitude towards making arrangements to take on other people's money funds and to continue to increase our market share.
So I can't give a specific answer as to how I think the SEC will come out or whether we'll flop over into FSOC or what will happen there.
But as I said and answered an earlier question it seems like it is our career to continue to fight for the survival of money funds.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you -- just couple of questions.
When you roll up the Fifth Third and the other smaller acquisition plus now the one up in Massachusetts can you give us a sense of what sort of the net accretion might be at the full run rate basis to earnings? Well Bill on the roll-ups like Fifth Third and Trustmark we've talked about in broad terms about those before.
I mean they would come in to existing products and so you would really just kind of model those the same way would you would model asset growth across the rest of the money fund business.
Massachusetts is different of course.
It's a state pool.
It will be treated as a separate account.
There's a fixed income component to it and we're really not going to go into fee levels and earning levels from particular client accounts.
That's probably about the best what we can do for you there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the last question on the billion dollar transfer from the mutual fund to the separate and managed account is there any other sort of backlog to be thinking about that this could be more than sort of a one-off trend and maybe you could quantify the impacts? No it serves economic impact.
Again it's a client account.
So I mean generally separate accounts are lower than mutual funds as you know.
In terms of a trend about a year ago we had one go the other way for about the same amount of assets in the $1.5 billion range where because of the particular needs of the client they switched from a separate account to a fund.
And so no these are one-offs that are particular to individual circumstances.
Our next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
It looked like you were able to pass a little bit more of the fee waiver along in distribution this quarter.
And again is that just a function of the asset mix? Yes.
That rate that you're referring to is a portion of the waivers that are effectively born by the distributors through lower distribution expensed the Federated has ranged from a number in the low 70% 71% to about as high as maybe 79% this quarter.
It was right about in the middle of that range which as you point out was a little higher than the previous couple of quarters.
That is really a number that falls out based on the asset mix.
And the particulars of that number are different for each fund.
And so it's not something we're actively managing.
It's really a question of where the assets fall.
Research Division</strong> So when you see waivers as flat for next quarter you see that basically as staying the same too? Implicit in the waiver flat is not taking more or less a snapshot of the business and then just doing the math to run numbers out.
So yes it would imply the same level.
But as Tom pointed out that would be just one of multiple variables that could cause that number to vary.
Well and Cynthia the one thing we do in there is talk to Debbie and her team about their expectation on rates.
So that's not flat although it actually ends up being flat but that's their view.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just generally going back to the redemption restrictions.
When you look over your client base which clients do you think would have the most difficult time adjusting to that? I mean are there some that you -- for whom you think it would be a complete deal breaker they really would have to use something other than a money market fund? Cynthia basically for our client base it would end their relationship with money funds almost across the board.
And it's hard to gauge as to which ones are worst but I'll give you some examples.
You take a trust department who has an omnibus account with us and they have many many trust accounts underneath.
And so are they going to say they're under $50 000 and therefore they're not subordinated? Or are they going to have the systems changed in order to do that? Are they going to make a decision when they go to redeem that now they've put their client if it's more than $50 000 not only into a delayed redemption but into a subordinated position so that they're now in a money market fund decision making a decision to be a first-loss insurer for a money fund? These things are impossible under state law for trust departments and impossible for the way they're set up.
So they're gone.
On sweep accounts with brokers or others the whole concept of a holdback doesn't exist.
And so you have to revamp all the systems.
Are they going to revamp all the systems and once again with all the omnibus accounts how is it going to work? You have the same kind of challenges.
And if you take regular institutional clients like corporations take a corporation that is trying to run a payroll their idea is not that they have their maturity artificially extended without compensation by a regulation.
Their idea is not that they have capital permanently unavailable to them because they're rolling all the time and have to maintain some kind of minimum.
None of those things are in the calculation on the money fund.
And if you take a municipality they have testified themselves that they're looking for dollar-in-dollar-out and that these kinds of restrictions would not be palatable to them.
So it's just another form of doing what the Fed said they were going to do back in July of 2010 which is regulate the money funds out of existence.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Ultrashort and short-term bonds flows as they're pretty strong across the industry.
Do have a sense of how much of those are just money coming out of money market funds? Any change there or it's sort of the same pattern as last year? Well let's just address the first one.
We can't track and do not know how things flowed from money funds into fixed income or equity or vice versa because the clients come to us omnibus.
And what's going on behind the curtain we just don't know.
So we're not like the big retail shop where you can see the flows and the exchanges going back and forth.
And I'll let Ray handle how it compares to last year.
Generally Cynthia the flows have picked up in Ultrashort.
The gross sales in terms of -- on a monthly average basis we're a little under $400 million in 2010 a little over $400 million in 2011 and through the first half of 2012 they're up to about $570 million.
So I think it is a reasonable conclusion that given the yield situation for money funds for investors who feel comfortable going out of it on the curve they can pick up decent incremental yield in the Ultrashort funds.
In terms of the net flows they were up in the second quarter compared to the first quarter but they've really been running in the $400 million $500 million $600 million range for the past couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just maybe just a last question.
This comp rate is this a good run rate? Yes.
It's a good run rate but every quarter -- how's performance and what are sales and it could change.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I was hoping you could give us a sense for the color that you gave on the client base for -- if money fund reform were to come into play.
I was just hoping you could give a little more color as in terms of your business response if the demand for the product is diminished significantly at some level how the incremental margin may work and what sort of steps you could take to offset some of the lessened demand? Well obviously we're fighting to not let that happen.
But given the hypothetical nature of the question with the client base basically not able to use money funds as they would be constituted then we go through a whole panoply of other options for other clients.
You can try to come up with separate accounts for some that are large enough to do that.
You can expand state pools such like what we have with Florida and Texas and now Massachusetts.
And maybe others can participate in there.
You begin to look more aggressively at some offshore options and how they work.
You look at Ultrashort products you look at products inside Ultrashort and outside 2a-7 and you begin to look at things that perhaps haven't even been discussed yet which is what I said in my remarks.
So you begin to look at a lot of different things but none of them are as good as a money fund in any way shape or form and none of them restore the tax-free nature of the tax-free funds for municipalities.
And so you don't end up with as a strong diversification as much efficiency or as good a home for money funds.
And on the issuer side you basically make the whole issuer side a lot more complicated and that's why we think that if the regulators are really focused on the participation of some of the players in the short-term market then they are to regulate how much they do in short-term financing and where they do it how many funds what percent of their book et cetera rather than shoot the money funds so that they can't do it.
So that's about as much I can give you on the client base.
I think that there are only real -- for a lot of them their only option is going to be to put money into the bigger banks and the reason I say that is because when they did the unlimited interest I mean the unlimited deposit for 0 interest 75% of the money went into the top 10 banks.
And that's about as good a reference point is I would have as to where the money would a lot of the money would go what enabled to fit in to some of these other buckets that I'm talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one follow-up for me on capital management.
Can you give us a sense for your level of conservatism now if there's anything baked in for what's going on in the overall regulatory environment and whether that could change into year-end base on potential outcomes on the reform? For number of years we took out over $400 million loan and maintained our $200 million revolver.
Now we've paid that loan down on the last couple of years but we still have base.
And when took down the loan we kept a lot of the money here use it for seed and investment in other products and so paid a bunch of it down.
And remember I mentioned our net debt there is only around $15 million of the end of the quarter and then we have that $200 million revolver.
So we have a lot of capital here to address whatever may come up.
In terms of what could change by the end of the year well let's see what happens and see what we would do.
We have share buybacks we have acquisitions and we have dividends.
They're all on the table and we will see what happens and how we respond.
Our next question comes from the line of Bulent Ozcan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Had a quick question.
We talked about regulation a lot.
But my question is let's assume that Mrs.
Schapiro does not get the majority vote.
And let's assume that FSOC declares money market funds as systemically important.
What options with industry have at that point to fight any regulatory push? Well you have to go through a significant amount of procedure to get to the point of FSOC declaring some money funds all money funds or whatever to be systemically important.
So in the hypothetical you're talking about the SEC votes 2 to 3 and the regs don't get put out by the SEC they flop it over into FSOC now what happens? And FSOC has approved a 3 prong test of Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 where they are talking about whether designating individual firms or industry participants.
We have filed papers on the legal side indicating that the money funds do not meet any of the criteria.
Depending on how you look at Section 113 of FSOC -- of Dodd-Frank it's written in terms of 10 criteria to be met or examined and then that was codified into 6 features by the regulators.
And so you look at those and they are all aimed at large banks with a lot of leverage and points like that because of their banking situation.
So that's why we think that we have a better legal case that they can't even designate money market funds as systemically important.
Then they have to get to the conundrum of whether it's one fund 2 funds or whether it's all funds or the whole industry and that's another level of difficulty.
So there are opportunities for filing papers hearings and challenges all throughout that process that we would then go through if FSOC were proceeding down those roads.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then quick question on the M&amp;A.
I'm sure you're looking at different options evaluating various deals.
What do you see in terms of pricing in the market? Are you comfortable? The question is what are sellers asking and what are bidders bidding? Well I'm not -- investment bankers know better that answer.
I can give you answer to how we look at it that the deals we want to do it's unusual for us to not be able to be comfortable with the price that the market is willing to do.
Yes there are some where we'd go in and we're viewed as being a lower bidder.
But in the deals where we think the culture is right we're not distracted by what the pricing may be.
There are deals that are overpriced then so fine.
But maybe Tom would give you more color on the pricing than I have.
Well I'd just add in.
What we've been looking for if you are not talking about roll-ups but Centers of Excellence or things that would continue on we have had the philosophy with each one of the ones that we purchased like that that we want the team to continue and so there's continuing interest in them.
And so since we're going to continue and have continuing interest why aren't they being paid over time for what we acquire? And many times our discussion with them is you can probably make more over time if we are able to grow it together then you could just on some upfront payment.
And so then you get a different look at it that way and it satisfies a lot of our cultural thought-process that they fit in with us especially if there's still working with us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And finally I think -- I don't know if you've already answered that but I was wondering about the inflows equity inflows into your separate accounts and which strategies got the flows in the quarter? Yes we did reference it.
It's really dominated by strategic value dividend.
That's been a strong flow gain on both on the separate account.
In the SMA version we have seen more traditional institutional accounts which years ago you would not have seen into that type of a dividend strategy but we've seen institutional interest in it and then of course strong retail demand.
Our next question comes from the line of Greggory Warren with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Basically I wanted to step away from money market reform for a little bit here and ask you guys about the equity and fixed income side of the business.
I know in the past you've talked about targeting $100 billion in total AOM and you've gotten pretty close here you're about $82 million right now.
Do you think that that target needs to be higher in an environment where potentially reform is out there and you had to potentially keep buffers on the books in order to continue running the money market side of the business? Is there something you can generate internally? Or is this something you need to go for acquisitions on? Well first of all yes.
The targets -- once we got the $90 million which we've announced in the press release because all we do is we add for the purpose of getting the $90 million the liquidation account which you probably aren't including in your $82 million.
So we're cool with that.
But once you get the $90 million a $100 million is hardly the next goal at all.
And so we are internally for now okay what are we going to say? If you look at it and say we want to double in 5 years you would get pretty much where we would come out once we do our internal stuff but we haven't done it yet on that.
The goals would be much higher and they really don't have anything to do with all of the stuff on money funds.
They had to do with the strength of the mandates the strength of the distribution and that's what it has to do with.
And yes we think we can do that kind of growth organically.
You look at our charts on growth sales our industry-leading type net flows over the last several quarters and the strength of the sales force the improvement in their quality and their ability to function in a changing marketplace.
When you see their ability to switch from IE risk-on to risk-off or equity to fixed or income-oriented you see a lot of flexibility into being able to respond and these are the things that give us confidence that we can grow these things organically.
Now you can have a debate about whether say the Trustmark thing is an organic growth or a lumpy acquisition.
As I said I call them lumpy sales so I count them as organic.
When someone who's a client of yours for 20 years decides to put money back to you then we consider that organic.
So you can dispute that back and forth either way.
But underlying the machinery we like to think of ourselves as an organic growth machine and yes we will cheat by acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess maybe just a follow-up too on that is if in a world where reforms do happen you got to think a lot of people will be coming out of the business looking at the cost benefit from running the funds and we've seen that over the last 5 years already.
Would you believe -- you'll continue to be a consolidator in this industry? Do you think that will be in the best interest for you guys? Or do you think it will be something where maybe just building out the equity and fixed income makes more sense? Now we would continue -- I assume you're asking about the consolidation in the money fund side.
We would continue to be positive towards doing the consolidation on the money market fund side because we believe in the beauty and efficacy of the money fund as a good public policy and as a good business.
So that's why I went through the market share percentages with you at the beginning of the call and when you take the market share from 5% to 9% over a little more than a decade it shows a commitment to this business.
And I told the senate when I was before them that all of the stuff going on on money funds right now the fact that the $2.5 trillion or $6 trillion stays in the funds is a sign of the resiliency and the importance with which both customers and issuers look at this business.
And that's what gives us a lot of confidence in doing it.
And yes reforms happen.
In fact since 1982 many reforms have happened in terms of money funds and reforms happened in 2010 which did strengthen the funds and enabled them to get through with flying colors the changes in the marketplace that occurred in 2011.
So our goal is to simply go with those changes and avoid killing the funds which some of the regulators seem to want to do.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Irizzary with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just when I look through the P&amp;L looks like that -- maybe some of the other expenses that you're seeing some operating de-leverage there? Can you just may be to help me understand when you go forward like maybe some of the G&amp;A if you will what the outlook is there? And then also as the fee waivers roll off are you thinking we should sort of reinvest those P&amp;L dollars and growing the nonmoney-fund business? Or how should we think about that? Well okay to go through the P&amp;L I mean we don't have -- I mean we're going to continue to invest in technology and we're doing that the best we can.
We've kind of maintained on a year-over-year basis the advertising and promotional level.
The T&amp;E probably will pick up because of the new salespeople that we put into position and still have a few more to hire.
The professional service fee that moves based on things that I'm not sure we can exactly predict.
And then we're going to take the money that we make if waivers go away and invest it back into the business.
We're going to earn more money and yes we're going to put it back into the business.
Gordy Ceresino on the international side is going around looking at deals and what we can do there.
So would we invest there? Yes.
I don't know if anybody has anything else to...
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Freeman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back -- sorry to beat a dead horse on money markets.
One on listening to Ken's question earlier and your response and some other folk has been talking to him is the assumption essentially now that new money market rules aren't going to be proposed until after the elections and is that because Treasury and Fed is in now let up pressure and threatening the FSOC money markets? I make no such assumption.
As I've said in response to other questions the regulators seem intent on imposing these draconian proposals regardless of election cycles regardless of political arguments.
And so I could not make the assumption you did.
I would love to but I cannot.
Research Division</strong> No I'm not making the assumption.
I just found it -- that might that was as such but thanks for clarifying.
Then the second question is just as Schwab did business update the other day essentially as I have kind of read through their comments my take was: they think you may ultimately get is these rules impacting usually Prime funds credit exposed funds and that users of the product with have to just decide.
If they want money market products they would go to government the government back funds.
And otherwise going credit you can find other products and then I'm just wondering your customer base a bit different in terms of the institutional fees and corporate.
And how much would just go to government back funds and essentially too what could sort of traditional bank deposits for liquidity management not cover in terms of the benefits that you do? The biggest thing that comes to mind is credit exposure to a bank if you were over the guaranteed limits? Well going kind of reverse up the tree of questions.
One of the things that the banks can't do is duplicate the municipal tax-free funds and preserve the tax-free nature of that for our investors on the one side like trust apartments; like broker-dealers like individuals; and on the issuer side smaller municipalities all over the country who right now gain the advantage of having Federated and other large players compete for paper where we bid the paper down to 30 basis points whereas if the money fund doesn't exist then they are beholden to finding a bank and then probably going to rates that are hundreds of basis points higher than that.
So that's one pretty definitive harm.
Now if you hypothesize something which we do not where you eliminate the Prime funds which are $1.6-or-so trillion out of the whole market then you've got a deal with what you're going to do with the issuers and where are the people going to go for the money.
And once again you're going to be back into the things I've already said on this call several times all different kinds of pools all different kinds of money going into large banks where the money just goes out of the system and over onto the Fed balance sheet whereas a 100% of the money that we have goes into the system and into issuers and helps with the short-term financing.
There are very very very legitimate short-term financing needs in this country that the money funds take care of.
And just because at some points some people take advantage of it according to the regulators by over-investing that doesn't mean that you should eliminate the Prime funds.
Now what would happen? I just don't know.
I know the unintended consequences would be quite severe and that's why people like the Chamber of Commerce and many other corporations CVS Boeing and the like have said that they are not in favor of these kinds of regulatory changes.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I know you raise good points on issuers and there's clearly impact on that.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Lee to you Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I apologize if this was asked and answered earlier.
I got on the call a little late but I just want to follow up on the announced to win of the Massachusetts account I guess the $9 billion account.
I know I guess it's similar to the State of Florida and Texas that you've done for bunch of years.
But can you maybe just update us on that marketplace.
I know those things come up for bid periodically but are you seeing -- are there other -- is there any kind of change in the landscape like more of those coming up for potential bid over the last couple of years and kind of when you competed for it besides the incumbent kind of what's the competitive landscape? Well the competitive landscape is very strong.
We competed for the Massachusetts deal I think at least 4 times over its heritage.
These things do come up for bid.
There are many states.
I don't know how many that have these pools.
And wherever they come up we bid on them.
But it's very difficult to build a chain or an avalanche on this kind of business.
They are periodic.
And -- but we have a good team of people who are calling on the state organizations 100% of the time.
I personally spoke at the National Association of State Treasurers earlier this year in Washington so it is a considered effort on our part to expand our business model which we think works very well with our investment management and then with our customer service at the local level to both service the existing accounts and help them expand the footprint of their state pool.
And these are the key elements that we've brought to the table in Texas and then Florida and now in Massachusetts and would expect to do elsewhere as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And maybe one follow-up question on the equity sub-account business.
I know you've had success there I know with strategic value dividend.
But can you talk a little bit about how much of that or the potential to add that or other strategies to sub[ph] advice platforms? Are you seeing traction in 401K plans and variable annuity products and the like with any of that? The strategic value dividend Rob is working in a number of channels and we're expanding distribution in all of the areas that you're mentioning.
We've had -- I mentioned before RFP level for the strategy we've had a number of platform wins so it really is proving to be something that we think is more than something that's going to come and go with the emphasis on the dividend income and the growth of dividends.
We're really fine in receptivity across channels and in multiple applications.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way of getting a feel for within your separate account fixed income and equity business? How much of the assets are currently placed on platforms where for lack of a better way of putting it it should be kind of recurring flows from that? Well that would be typical of most of the platforms.
When they're dropped into asset allocation programs.
So it would be -- it would probably the reverse of that it will be exceptional for that not to be a growth opportunity.
And then of course there's a flip side to that too.
We've seen when clients make changes to their asset allocation decisions both inflows and outflows of course can be lumpy.
Our final question comes from the line of Ed Groshans with Height Analytics.
LLC</strong> I guess I think you responded to the money market fund thing quite well.
And I guess the only thing I would add is the financial stability oversight council did come out with their annual report on July 18.
And they specifically recommend that the SEC adopt reforms to address runs on money market funds.
And I guess from your view you feel that the rule changes done on August 2010 to 2a-7 are sufficient yet it seems like you don't just have you have mentioned the Fed and the SEC but the FSOC is really 9 other regulators that seem to be getting onto this bandwagon.
And at the meeting you actually had CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler highlight the work that Schapiro was doing in this area.
And so I think it's -- what you're saying is the regulators.
I think you've got a much bigger push on your end given that it's not just the SEC or the Fed but seems to be now you have 9 financial regulators lining up on this issue.
Yes the underdog role.
And looking at a few of them the CFTC -- it was either earlier this year or yes I think it was earlier this year -- expanded the available use of money market funds to their participants and went through a whole process and then came up with expanded use of money funds.
The OCC has just recently decided that what should happen with the short-term management and banks is that they should be coordinated much closer with the existing rules on 2a-7.
And yes all those people voted to put the report out.
And pretty soon we will have our response to that report.
And I think the principal element that we will respond to that report is that the fundamental assumption that somehow money market funds are susceptible to runs is simply untrue.
When you've had 1 run in 40 years that does not make susceptibility.
And it's interesting that in '94 when the fund broke a $1 there was no run.
There were no problems elsewhere.
The reason was that there was plenty of liquidity in the system.
And the problem in '08 was that as Bernanke has said it was the worst situation since the depression and the -- all the markets had been frozen up and that was what the real problem was in addition to some changes in how the government was looking at companies like Lehman on the one hand and Bear Stearns and AIG on the other hand that you did not have consistent government response.
And so when we appeal through the amendments that have been made to 2010 on the subject of runs we note that number one you can't have a run in the existing fund that may make a $1 because as soon as they break a $1 they go into liquidation and liquidation means they exercise the living will which means there's a pause on redemptions and everything comes out according to its redemption thing.
So there is no run in the first fund.
Then the next question "Oh! Well will there be runs on the other funds?" Well now you have a lot of things that ameliorate that.
For example everybody knows what's in the other funds because we file them publicly and with the SEC.
The SEC knows what's in those funds and we file them even quicker.
They have the right to do emergency powers and say "Hey we want to hit a pause mode on this fund if they want." And the independent directors of a given fund have the obligation to treat all shareholders fairly anyway.
So because of the transparency because of the increase in cash positions that have been made because of the increase in regulatory ability and confidence on these subjects we think they have ameliorated more than sufficiently the chances of creating money market fund runs.
But what we have not done is that we have not made the funds perfect because they are investments.
And what we beg is that they've not made perfect the enemy of the good.
LLC</strong> Right.
I know you guys have been looking at this in grave detail.
I just did -- it does seem that at the end of the day there is a push to do something.
And I think when we look at the financial stability over sight council report I think it's the first time I saw the word "possibly" attached to "redemption features" whereas prior to that it has always been that we're going to see redemption features and now it's possibly redemption features.
So it seems like there is some movement on that side.
And then the other issue then is whether you're going to -- is the push going to continue for capital or for floating NAV? And I guess I understand that you don't appreciate the funding NAV.
But it does seem like maybe that compromise comes on the capital end of things.
And I would like to hear your thoughts on that? Compromising among ways of killing yourself does not make a lot of sense to us.
So trying to use those 3 things all of which are deadly and say "Well we're compromise this or that one no." It just doesn't make any sense.
They all attacked the essence of what the money fund is.
Daily liquidity at par with the market interest rates.
So therefore anyone of them will be devastating to the funds.
And so that's how we look at it.
And when you start talking about capital well you'll go there.
And remember that the regulators as a general rules have said we don't want these funds to be guaranteed or viewed as guaranteed and this is a problem.
And if you start putting capital things on them you will create what one commissioner calls the illusion of protection.
And this illusion will go exactly the opposite way of what the regulators say they want and yet the capital will impact the efficacy of the funds either from the advisor's point of view or from the yield on the fund point of view or both.
And that's all we have time for.
But sure I'll be happy to -- if you have other questions feel free to call in.
And operator we're then going to wrap up the call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Third Quarter 2012 Analyst Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Raymond J.
Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Co.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
And also participating is Debbie Cunningham Chief Investment Officer for Federated Money Markets.
Let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurances can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray.
Good morning.
I will start with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance before turning the call over to Tom to discuss the financials.
Looking first at cash management.
Average money market fund assets were just about the same as in Q2 while the quarter-end totals increased by $6 billion to $245 billion.
Our market share for money market funds remains over 9%.
For separate account money market assets the reported decrease in both average and period-end assets was due to the expected seasonality.
The impact of yield-related fee waivers decreased again in the third quarter.
Tom will comment further and Debbie will discuss the money market conditions and our expectations going forward.
The third quarter saw a flurry of activity on the regulatory front.
On August 22 the SEC Chairman issued a statement on money fund reform including indicating that a majority of the SEC Commissioners would not support a proposal to reform the structure of money funds.
This was followed by a statement from Commissioner Aguilar on the 23rd and a joint statement from Commissioners Gallagher and Paredes on the 28th.
Now we expect that the SEC will and should retain its responsibility for overseeing markets and protecting investors including money market regulation.
And it is important to note that this agency the SEC has an unparalleled multi-decade record of success in the regulation of money funds and is far better equipped for this mission than the FSOC.
Furthermore the Commissioners concluded all of their statements by inviting constructive dialogue which is obviously continuing while noting that money funds are "squarely within the expertise and regulatory jurisdiction of the SEC." And further "we do not intend to abdicate our responsibility to regulate money market funds which would be unjustified and at the expense of our mission to oversee the securities markets." There have obviously been other events that have gone on here recently.
We are well aware of the report that Treasury Secretary Geithner has written and this has stimulated other activities and some as what was referred to earlier constructive dialogue continues.
And our position is very simple that we will continue to champion those things than enhance the resiliency of money market funds.
Now turning to our equities business.
Flows for equity mutual funds and separate accounts combined were solidly positive.
In fact on a combined basis Federated has achieved positive equity flows in 4 of the last 5 quarters.
In this timeframe net inflows were over $2.2 billion.
We continue to see solid demand for income-oriented products especially -- particularly the strategic value dividend both domestic and international and the capital income strategies.
Other strategies with net inflows include our Muni and Stock Advantage Fund Managed Volatility II product and the Clover Small Value Fund.
At the end of the third quarter we had 9 equity strategies in a variety of styles with top quartile 3-year records and 14 in the top quartile for 1 year.
The 3-year group includes Capital Income Equity Income and Strategic Value Income and International Strategic Value Dividend.
It also includes Pru Bear and some international funds our InterContinental and International Leaders among others.
On the 1-year we're happy to say that both Kaufmann Large and Kaufmann Small and 3 of the MDT products are included in this group.
Q3 flows in equity separate accounts were positive led again by the strategic value strategy.
The Clover Small Value strategy also had inflows.
Now looking at fixed income.
Net positive fund sales were $1.4 billion in the third quarter.
High yield products led fixed income fund flow categories.
We have some particularly strong products gaining traction in this area.
We also saw strong flow results from our stable value and municipal strategies and our Emerging Market Debt Fund had net inflows.
In multi-sector strategies the strategic income fund had inflows.
Total Return Bond Fund had modest net outflows but has returned to net inflows here in the early part of Q4.
We ended Q3 with 12 fixed income strategies with top quartile 3-year records and 7 strategies reaching the top quartile on a 1-year basis.
Some of the 3-year members include fed bond high-yield intermediate government emerging market debt ultrashort bond short intermediate muni among others.
Fixed income separate account net sales were also positive in Q3 led by high yield mandates.
RFP activity for fixed income remained elevated compared to the levels seen in 2011 as we've had nearly as many RFPs in the first 9 months of 2012 as we did for all of 2011.
We continue to see interest in a variety of areas including stable value high-yield total return core broad emerging market and active cash short duration.
A comment on early Q4 flows.
Equity fund net flows are negative and equity SMAs are positive for the first 3 weeks of October.
Overall equity flows are modestly negative.
Fixed income fund flows are solidly positive for the first 3 weeks of October as are the SMA flows a positive on the fixed income side.
As usual we caution you about making projections from 3-week information at the early part of the quarter.
Now turning to the overall fund investment performance and looking at MorningStar rated funds.
43% of rated equity fund assets are in 4 and 5 star products as of quarter-end; and 57% are in 3 4 and 5 star products.
For bond funds the comparable percentages are 38% 4 and 5 star; and 79% 3 4 and 5 star.
As of October 24 managed assets were approximately $365 billion including the $270 billion in money market; $35 billion in equities; and $60 billion in fixed income which includes the liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $246 billion.
So far in October money fund assets have ranged between $243 billion and $248 billion and have averaged $246 billion.
Looking at distribution.
Our year-to-date monthly average gross fund sales are up about 6% from 2011 and up 24% from 2010.
Results are strong across channels and recent highlights include: in the broker/dealer channel our high-yield fund was selected by 2 major banks for enhanced distribution opportunities related to a wrap program in one case and a high net worth platform in the other.
In the wealth management market our stable value product continued to expand in the retirement programs that it's in leading to strong flow results.
On the institutional side we are proceeding with the transition to begin managing the $9.5 billion Massachusetts Municipal Depository Trust mandate that we won during the third quarter.
We expect to begin managing these assets early in 2013.
As regards acquisitions in offshore business.
In the third quarter we announced the hiring of Craig Bingham as CEO of our Asia Pacific subsidiary based in Australia.
Craig previously served as CEO of the asset management business for a global insurance company's Australia and Asia Pacific regions.
In this capacity he oversaw growth in assets and distribution and led the opening of distribution offices in Japan Taiwan and the Mid-East.
Craig has begun to build out a headquarters staff in Melbourne and will move to establish institutional distribution capabilities for various Federated strategies including high-yield core broad and emerging market debt.
We also plan to develop Australian-based investment management capabilities expand our distribution capabilities to other parts of the Asia Pac region and eventually develop investment management capabilities in other parts of this region.
We also announced in the third quarter the signing of an agreement with London-based Bury Street Capital that will result in expanded distribution in Europe for certain of our equity and fixed-income UCIT products.
Bury Street is an institutional fund marketer focused on the high end of the UCITS market.
They have extensive experience at working with major European institutions distributors and wealth managers in the UCITS market.
Bury Street has worked closely with a number of sizable U.S.
management companies who have individually raised significant billions in assets in this $7.5 trillion UCITS market.
We have had early success from the acquisition of our London-based Prime Rate Capital Management during the second quarter.
The assets have increased from $4.2 billion when the deal closed in April to over $5 billion this month.
We continue to look for alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Europe and Asia as well as the United States.
And here in the U.S.
we closed in the third quarter the previously announced transactions with Fifth Third for $4.4 billion in money market assets and Trustmark for $933 million in money market equity and fixed income assets.
And we remain active as I said in looking for additional consolidation opportunities stateside.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Taking a look at first at the money fund fee waivers the impact to pre-tax income in Q3 was $16.3 million down from $17.2 million in the prior quarter.
The improvement was due mainly to higher rates for the -- for treasury and mortgage-related securities.
Based on the current assets and yield levels we think these waivers could impact Q4 by about the same amount.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 40% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
It's important to note that the variables impacting waivers can and do change frequently.
Revenues in Q3 increased 3% from the prior quarter due largely to having 1 additional day in Q3 and to a lesser extent from the impact of lower minimum yield waivers.
Operating expenses were reduced by $17.3 million due to a recognition of insurance proceeds all of which impacted the professional service fee line.
Distribution expense increased primarily due to the extra day and to changes in the mix of money market fund assets.
Investment income was up compared to prior quarter due mainly to unrealized gains on the consolidated products.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Cash and marketable securities totaled $368 million at quarter-end.
Federated's Board approved a dividend of $1.75.
This includes the $0.24 quarterly dividend and a special dividend of $1.51.
The dividend will be paid from cash on our balance sheet.
This will be the third special dividend paid since 2008 with a total of $5.53 paid to our shareholders in special dividends and $10.30 in total dividends paid over the last 5 years.
Dividends return cash to our shareholders and are a result of our competitive financial performance and the earnings we have achieved.
As with prior special dividends EPS will be reduced by about $0.04 per share in Q4 due to the 2-class method of computing EPS which requires that a portion of net income is a portion to unvested restricted shares for accounting purposes.
We are able to pay significant dividends while continuing to invest for growth.
Some examples of our growth initiatives are product line expansion advertising the recent addition to our sales force the important steps that Chris mentioned in our -- in growing our global footprint in the acquisitions we have completed particularly the 2 recent ones in Q3.
Looking forward cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flows from operations and availability under present debt facilities provide us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities as well as fund-related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new products seed and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
I'd like to now turn the call over to Debbie to talk about money market conditions.
Debbie? Thanks Tom.
Just to give you an update from a rate perspective for the third quarter versus the second quarter.
Effectively we had an improvement in overnight rates.
Repo in particular stayed very steady in the low- to mid-20s for both treasury as well as agency mortgage-backed repo.
The rest of the yield curve however declined and flattened.
For instance 1-month LIBOR ended the period around 21 basis points down 3 basis points from where we stood in the second quarter.
And further out the curve 3 months 6 months and 12 months LIBOR all declined 14 18 and then 18 basis points again respectively.
So although the front end of the curve on an overnight basis held very steady and actually improved the curve itself further out to the 12-month area actually declined substantially in the double-digit mode.
This is a reflection of fairly positive credit markets.
We've seen good earnings again from a U.S.
perspective.
And although Europe continues to muddle along there have certainly been improvements from a liquidity and a discussion perspective with the ECB and that's played through to spread tightening in even the European sector.
And when you look at our other global areas of exposure Canada Australia you're seeing improvement again in those economies.
Canada even at this point is talking about needing a rate increase which is obviously something that is music to all of our ears.
A couple other items that are of important note that are happening in the fourth quarter and we continue to watch their development and how in fact the money markets are responding have to do with the conclusion to Operation Twist that will -- is the FOMC item by which they are removing from their balance sheet their shortest inventory and replacing it with longer inventory.
And that's actually been marginally positive for rates in the money market sector.
The announcement of QE3 is something that we'll continue to watch whereby the Fed is taking about $40 billion worth of inventory in the mortgage-backed market which is collateral that would be necessarily used in other instances if it weren't on the Fed's balance sheet for the repo marketplace.
So we'll continue to see both of those things play out.
Our overall expectation is that overnight funding rates that have been holding very steady in the low-20s will probably decline into the mid-teens.
Another item that we continue to watch has to do with the fiscal cliff and in fact what's going on from a negotiation perspective with the debt ceiling as well as appropriation and the timing associated with that that's been established by Congress.
And then lastly another item that we continue to follow and could have impact on money market rates has to do with the current intentional expiration of the unlimited FDIC insurance.
On December 31 2012 if Congress doesn't act the unlimited insurance for FDIC accounts will expire and it's likely that if in fact that occurs there will be some portion of those deposits that will be looking for a new home.
That new home potentially being in the government's short-term sector both on a direct securities basis for treasury and agency securities as well as through government money market funds that would be owning those securities.
But again there is a possibility that that could be extended so there's no portfolio strategizing at this point to take into account that definitive end to the unlimited insurance.
Those are the main items affecting the money markets at this point.
Okay Debbie thank you.
And we'd like to open the call up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Actually just a series of questions on the dividend if I may.
Number 1 maybe tell us how you came up with the amount? You're going from I think net cash to net debt.
So how did the potential for money market fund reform and other role changes kind of factor into the decision on the amount? Sure Ken.
The -- we'll go into net debt which will be less than $100 million on our forecast.
We're not using up all the cash balances.
In other words the cash is sitting on the company.
So we're not borrowing to do this.
We look at our availability with existing other investments and cash and our revolver and see that we will have what we think is ample supply of resources that we needed for acquisition for other risk management purposes.
And while the term loan keeps marching down at least for 2013 at about $10 million a quarter if we need to we could borrow more from our stellar banking group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to keep pressing this talk about the uses of cash next year.
If you could tell us kind of what your CapEx projections are.
You had mentioned expanding in Asia Pac.
I assume there are costs there.
You mentioned the launch of UCIT funds.
I assume you're going to be seeding them.
How much are you going to use to seed new products next year? And you mentioned deals that's something that you guys have done in the past comments there and size of deals.
And then lastly what are the specific like earnouts? You've done a lot of deals.
They're earnouts that come in annually.
If we look through the end of '13 like what are payments that will need to be made given the performance in AUM levels of deals that you've done? So just the -- really focusing on the uses of cash through the end of '13.
Okay.
A bunch of questions there.
We'll see if we get through them and if we don't make sure you follow up.
The CapEx we don't see huge outside things from what we've done in the last few years.
We're continuing to invest in there.
We're doing some long-term focus on our investment management systems and so we'll be focused on that.
That might move some dollars earlier that would have occurred in '15 up to '13 and '14.
But I don't think it's an issue in terms of funding it in cash usage.
The investments that we're making with Craig Bingham involve people systems and that -- you're just going to come in and see that as an expense to us which won't have a lot of revenue associated with it in the beginning.
We will see products there that will be seeded out of our existing cash on our balance sheet.
In other words we'll just -- we'll move our investments around to the extent that we need.
So there isn't going to be we have to go and borrow to be able to fund those.
In terms of the earnouts I think Ray may have a comment there.
Yes.
Ken the earnouts this year will total about $14 million in payments.
And next year based on where we are today that number would be likely be under $10 million.
Now it has the potential to be higher.
There are still a few deals that from earlier that are active and have a higher top end.
But at this point it would look to be lower than this year.
Yes just on the deals Remember Ken most of our deals had to grow in order to get big portions of their contingent payments.
And while that happened early on on a number of them the growth rates haven't been as significant to get them to their later year payouts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the final one.
You mentioned the financial safeguards you have in place existing lines bank credit et cetera.
Can you remind us of the numbers? And then in terms of if you needed it what you think you can get based on your conversations with the banks beyond the line.
Just anything you could do to quantify.
Sure sure.
Yes our revolver's $200 million right now.
And right now we have $318 million under the term loan.
Our ratios with the bank group are that we are allowed to borrow up to 2.5x EBITDA.
So that -- without causing any issue with the existing bank group we could move up to over $800 million in borrowing capacity.
Of course we'd have to go and work with them and pay the fees and borrow the money.
But it's readily available.
We're -- our debt-to-EBITDA ratio is 1 and going down.
Our interest coverage ratio is 24.5 and it has to be 4 to 1.
So we have more than enough availability there and are excellent credit.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
This is actually James Howley filling in for Michael this morning.
Just wanted to touch on some of the things in the institutional channel this quarter.
Wondered if there were any kind of outside fundings.
I know you'd called out a few in the last conference call that would be hitting.
And then just more broadly how is that shaping up both across the traditional defined benefit business as well as the SMA side? Yes on the -- this quarter the equity inflows were on the institutional side were driven by the strategic value strategy.
We continue to have RFP activity there and in other equity areas.
And -- but really the pipeline story for coming up the biggest thing is clearly the Massachusetts cash mandate which will be in the $9 billion range which we talked about in the call should fund early in 2013.
We have some other smaller mandates in the high-yield side primarily.
But the biggest thing happening would be that cash mandate.
Okay great.
And then flipping over to fixed income here.
It seems like the Ultrashort Funds are still generating some pretty sizable inflows.
Just wondering if you could expand on some of the drivers behind that strength? Is it really just all about the incremental yield versus money market funds at this point? Mostly what that is is really investable assets.
No matter how you look at it the size of the ultrashort fund market never gets up to 5% of the total of the mutual fund money market.
And so yes we have adding better flows there as people are looking more towards longer cash due to low interest rates overall and to their reticence to apparently go out into other risk things.
So we're up to $7 billion on that at this time.
And James I'd just point out on the flows for last quarter on the fixed income fund side we were about $1.4 billion and less than 25% of that would have been from the Ultrashorts.
The biggest fixed income story in terms of Q3 flows is high-yield where our records are outstanding and products are highly rated.
So that was kind of first and foremost.
Our capital preservation which is a guaranteed investment contract product that's done very well in retirement programs would have been the next biggest contributor to flows.
And then we had a variety of other products like our corporate product Federated bond fund.
We mentioned the Emerging Market Debt Fund being positive our Muni Funds Short Intermediate Duration Muni.
So really the story from a Q3 flow standpoint as it goes to fixed income is a story of diversification and a series of strategies that are getting traction in the market.
Our next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It looks like the strategic value fund is underperforming year-to-date.
And I'm wondering if this is having any impact on flows or would you expect to have it impact? Or is the 3-year more impactful? And I guess the 5-year looks like it could fall next year as you roll off a good 2008.
So any thoughts about what time period you see is most important in terms of the channels where that's sold would be great.
Cynthia the beautiful thing about the strategic income fund is that its sales and its essence are not really controlled at all by the relative performance in that category.
So we have seen this fund even though it would be in the bottom part of that category continue its strong sales.
And so its participation in the performance rankings is due to how people look at financials or other dividend paying entities.
The key to this fund is the 5% dividend and the 5% appreciation in dividend or increase in dividend and the old standard Graham and Dodd analysis of companies that are able to continue to pay and increase dividends.
And this particular mandate has shown itself to be very very strong and impervious to relative performance situations.
So we don't really pay a whole lot of attention to it.
And that relative performance looks more like being on a pogo stick whereas the sales and the performance against the mandate as it's been articulated have been steady increasing and very very customer friendly.
Ray has a comment on this as well.
Well Cynthia I just wanted to point out when you hear Chris talk about the specialized income strategy that it follows and has followed for years and has resonated with the advisors enough so you see the flows.
From a category standpoint it's in a very broad MorningStar category large cap value fund.
When we look at the fund we're looking at things were like the Dow Jones Select Dividend Index as being more appropriate for the particular dividend strategy that that fund is following.
So it's one of those cases where the category is not particularly descriptive of what the fund is actually doing.
And we think the advisors understand that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess maybe just a follow-up on the special dividend.
Did your thinking on potential for capital buffers impact that at all? Or did you -- should we take this as a sign in some way that you don't see capital buffers as likely? We -- when we borrowed money about 3 years ago the original loan of $425 million we kind of had a list of things that we called risk management possibilities.
And we wanted to have availability of that size of dollars around for what I described as risk management possibilities and acquisitions and other things.
So capital buffers would be fit in under the risk management possibilities.
But I can't let the opportunity pass without commenting that we still don't believe that risk buffers are efficacious in a money market fund arena.
As one of the Commissioners has pointed out they create merely the illusion of protection either being too small to matter or too big that it kills the industry.
So I just always swing at that pitch when it goes by.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then the -- just a modeling question on the marketing distribution.
It looked like it was up a bit more than I expected even though the revenue share portion of the fee waivers looked similar or even a little bit better.
Is there something else going on in the marketing and distribution this quarter? Well remember we talked about the mix.
And what I'm referring to in the mix of money market assets there is more in prime than in the government and the treasury.
So then you end up with higher distribution expense.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys qualify -- quantify excuse me the amount of spend related to some of these new non-U.S.
initiatives? And then from past experience what you saw in the UCIT opportunity in particular how quickly could you anticipate some volumes ramping through the system? And what products perhaps you could see first? On the dollar spend if in the next 12 months we spent over in Asia Pacific $5 million or $6 million that wouldn't surprise us.
In terms of when we're going to get products up and running we still not have a lock on that and we're still working through what's involved there.
Yes and that's on the Asia part of it.
On the European side the arrangement with Bury Street is off and running.
In fact we'll be active in Europe next week on a roadshow focused around U.S.
high-yield.
So it's hard to predict volumes but that part of the effort is active.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just big picture.
Chris coming back to your commentary it does seem like the -- when the regulators are open to I guess maybe even a fourth outcome for money markets and it seems like capital buffers and [indiscernible] those seem to be more dead-on-arrival than not.
What could some of this fourth type of scenarios be? There's been some discussion of maybe selective redemption gates like we saw in 2008 when Putnam went through its issues.
How do you sort of see it? And when they talk about having discussions from stakeholders around I presume they're talking about both the users and the issuers.
And where do you think we stand on that and then timing of that? I know a lot of questions in there but that's all the question [indiscernible].
Well let's set the stage.
The first thing to us in this whole package is to enhance the resiliency of money funds.
You know that.
That's repeat the sounding joy from Chris.
The next one is that you mentioned which is "engaged stakeholders " which is precisely the paragraph is in Secretary Geithner's letter which functions as an invitation for alternative approaches and engaging stakeholders.
And so that effort is going on apparently.
And we think that sets the stage for allowing for other ideas to come into play.
And you mentioned our favorite which is the voluntary gating a la the Putnam situation.
To refresh everybody's recollection of that when Putnam had large redemptions they decided to put a hold on the fund on redemptions for a week and then the funds ended up as part of our funds because they had no credit problems.
And then within 1 week all of those redemptions were honored at $1 and it was a big no harm no foul deal.
And so this supplied us with the experience and the enthusiasm to recommend in the 2010 and for the 2010 amendments that we empower the Boards to do this voluntary gating for the 1 week period.
And that was not included in the 2010 amendments.
And so any of these other ideas that people come up with regarding liquidity and other kinds of gates we think it would be wise to combine it with giving the Boards the power to do this.
And the reason for that is very simple that based on the experience of Putnam that Board made a wise choice looking at its a priori duty to treat all shareholders the same.
And we think that kind of flexibility would be important if you're approaching some of these other liquidity triggers that others are looking at.
So I think one of the other things that's important doesn't get mentioned a lot especially in this kind of a call is the importance of jurisdiction and who's in charge.
And we really believe that the SEC who as I mentioned in my remarks has done a commendable job on money funds.
There have only been 2 who've been stepped out from being $1 in all those years.
And that the jurisdiction of the SEC is well recognized by Secretary Geithner and by obviously the SEC which is why I read those comments in my remarks on that.
And that the relationships among the SEC and the industry remain cordial and collegial as they have always been so far as I know.
And the reason for that is very simple.
This is the way it has worked since I've been in this business 40 years.
And we all have to go back and deal with our regulator in any event.
So those would be an attempt to answer the various questions posed.
Our next question comes from the line of Bulent Ozcan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question regarding the FDIC insurance and expiration thereof.
It's estimated that about $450 billion in money could be deployed in the markets again once it expires.
What are your thoughts in terms of flows? What will you get into money market funds? And what would be the implications on interest rates short-term interest rates if that money was deployed? Well I will handle the first part of the question.
I'll let Debbie handle the question on the interest rates.
I couldn't exactly hear the kinds of numbers you were talking about but I'll give you my view of the TAG program.
Roughly depending on whose estimates you look at there's about $1.3 trillion in that effort which was basically to let people have unlimited FDIC insurance and 0 interest at any bank in the U.S.
that has FDIC insurance okay.
Well 75% of that money is in the top 10 banks in the U.S.
So those customers have already made a decision that they want to be in a very big bank.
Whether they're looking at it as too big to fail or not you can make your own judgment.
And so how much of that money moves into money funds? You get various opinions.
I don't think a whole lot.
Some of the rest of it yes I think that would be eligible for money funds.
But -- and so it's hard to say how much of that would go.
Our market share is about 9%.
Our market share of ultrashorts is about 11%.
So somewhere in there whatever money comes out I would think would come to the home team here.
You can't underestimate the importance of how people might go direct depending on their facts and circumstances or to other types of cash vehicles that people create or that exist elsewhere.
So it's a pretty hard formulation to get to but that's the way I would scope it.
When I think about it in the context of the expiration of the unlimited.
So it's not as if the insurance expires completely.
It goes back to the original level which was $250 000 per account.
So there's some amount that will stay.
I agree with Chris that in the large banks there probably won't be much if any movement.
But for the smaller banks there will be still some amount of that that stays that's underneath that $250 000 limit.
In the context of those that will be moving and looking for a different home they're going to seek characteristics that are similar to what they already have.
Those characteristics would be very very low risk with government backing of some sort no return basically and liquidity in the product.
You can get those in the direct securities market through the treasury and agency discount notes sector.
Or you can get those through funds that are purchasing those types of securities.
And what effectively happens then at that point is you have a larger demand for that short end yield curve security type that is government backed.
And when you have a larger amount of demand with a significantly stable supply it's very simple rates go down.
It's hard to measure though -- it's hard to quantify the exact amount given that we don't know how much will move.
We don't know how much will remain.
And what does move we're not exactly sure if it all will go into that sector that is the short end of the government yield curve.
But in any case if the expiration occurs we're confident that rates in that short-term treasury agency and mortgage-backed traditional repo market as well as the direct securities of those notes will decline in yield from where they are today.
So that's one of our reasons for looking at the outlook for repo to go down.
But also we've been very steady on short-term bill rates and short-term agency rates and we think if in fact QE3 expires from an unlimited – or not QE3 the FDIC insurance expires from an unlimited perspective we'll see the 9 and 10 basis point 3-month T-Bill rates that have been holding pretty steady also start to decline.
LLC Research Division</strong> I see.
In terms of the interest rates low interest rates would it be fair to draw some parallels to Europe? I'm asking the question because TIMCO declared that it's going to exit some of the funds.
They basically have a EUR 80 million liquidity fund to which they will liquidate and return to assets to the shareholders.
The reason being interest rates are too low and there basically -- the net asset value -- the stable net asset value is being threatened by low interest rates.
Could that happen over here? Could we see interest on excess reserves go to 0? What are your thoughts on that? Debbie? Sure.
It's always a possibility.
You can never say never.
I would love to rule that out as any possibility but that would be inappropriate.
And certainly we're watching it play out to some degree in Europe.
First of all from a European perspective most of the funds that have closed in the euro-denominated sector from a money market fund perspective are euro government funds.
So they're euro-denominated funds that can only purchase government securities so they're purchasing Belgium Germany France and short-term debt of those particular countries.
Most of the euro prime funds of that have the capability of buying credit banks and corporations have not closed and have suffered from a rate decline perspective.
And perhaps some of them are waiving fees.
But that's nothing new to us here in the United States.
IOER has been one of the things that when questioned about it Chairman Bernanke has not shown a whole lot of interest in.
And certainly reading the meeting minutes from various of the FOMC meetings it is all -- it is still on the table from a consideration perspective but we think it's a distant last item in the context of easing.
We also think that because Europe at this point is not gaining a lot of traction from their current 0 and negative interest rate environment that probably adds even more fuel to the Fed's fire for thinking that strategy may not be particularly beneficial at this point.
So although again we can't rule it out and we would not put it on a 0 probability it's lower on the likelihood scale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe final question on the international aspirations.
What are the goals there in terms of revenue contribution? What are the milestones the timeline? And how do you plan on getting there? The overall goal we have articulated before is to have the revenues sourced from international clients get to $100 million in short order.
I'm not going to give you a specific timeline on that because that's being created when you're hiring people putting it together.
That's what we're looking at.
Right now we have about $25 million in that category.
And so we're looking to grow that pretty substantially.
The theory there is that we wanted to impact the overall revenues of Federated and be able to move the dial.
And once you can see clear to the $100 million of revenues then you can see clear to stepping off your growth and perhaps even capturing PE points available to those firms that are on the international side.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Freeman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just on fee waivers.
I think Ray you were saying probably flattish at this point I think holding sort of current rates constant.
And Debbie I heard you say I think that you expect overnight funding rates come back into the teens.
So I was just trying to triangulate those 2.
I guess if your view pans out is there a risk that the fee waivers will be higher? Or is it from an averaging perspective over the quarter it's still flattish? Roger it -- there's the rate part of the equation there's also the volume part of the equation.
So the prime funds as Tom mentioned during the third quarter actually gained several billion in average assets and the treasury and government actually went down.
And the yields remain higher on prime and the waiver's lower.
So that certainly enters into the equation.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just I think this might be obvious but the -- maybe you said this earlier.
But the timing of doing the special now is it a function of dividend tax rates set to expire? Well we know that dividend tax rates might expire.
And people thought that in 2010 and 2008 and they didn't expire.
We're not really -- so that's obviously out there.
Chris is looking for more PE points as we all are at the company.
And we're earning the dollars and not getting the recognition in the stock price.
So this is another way for the shareholders to get what they deserve.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And just lastly has Pru Bear been -- seen a pickup in flows recently with the market weakness? Pru Bear in the third quarter was positive nominally positive I would say.
For the first 3 weeks of October it's actually very slightly negative.
So no we have not seen a flood of money into Pru Bear at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Greggory Warren with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to sort of -- from a modeling perspective I'm looking at some of these flows that are expected to come through.
I mean you guys did note that the $9 billion from Massachusetts will be coming in early next year.
But I'm looking at the assets that you acquired during the quarter.
I'm assuming that the Fifth Third assets did hit the money market funds? Yes.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious in all of the performance fast [ph] trends did those hit during the quarter? Are those coming through during the fourth quarter? And then...
They -- I'm sorry they hit in the quarter and we actually called those out.
So we do not include those in our net sales numbers but they are in a separate acquisition line item.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So I was -- I just wanted to get that clear.
And then on the Massachusetts the mandate.
Is that typical for it to take that long that 6 months to sort of fund up? Or is it just a situation where they decided they wanted to fund in the first part of next year? It is typical and it took us a lot longer with Florida.
I forget how long it took with Texas.
But everybody has to get everything right when you're moving this big of a deal that this high – that's this high profile and this important especially to the State of Massachusetts and to the holders thereof.
There -- it is necessary to staff up positions locally in Massachusetts.
And so there's a lot of good things that have to happen.
So this is not an unusual thing or a worrisome thing it is just to be expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's good.
And then I just had one quick question on sort of the money market reform.
It just -- it seems odd that there -- the news is breaking now that there's some sort of compromise coming in when it seemed like this was dead and then not dead.
And the feeling was that they would wait until after the first of the year to start anything new.
Unusual has been the rule of thumb in terms of dealing with the regulations on money funds.
And having been in this for 40 years and watching all of the back and forth it -- nothing really surprises me at this point.
And so if I go further than that I'll simply repeat the comments I made in answer to Bill's questions about the resiliency of money funds the importance of jurisdiction how much we like the voluntary gating the study that the chamber did and the invitation that Senator -- Secretary Geithner made and that's about where I would leave it.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Well thank you.
That concludes our call and we thank you for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Inc.
Fourth Quarter Analyst Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Raymond Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you sir.
Please begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated's CEO and President; Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer; and joining us for the Q&amp;A is Debbie Cunningham who is the Chief Investment Officer of our money market area.
Let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray.
Good morning all.
I will start with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance before turning the call over to Tom to discuss our financials.
Looking first to cash management.
Average money market fund assets were up over $5 billion in the fourth quarter while the quarter end totals increased by nearly $11 billion to $256 billion.
Our market share for money market funds increased slightly in the fourth quarter.
For separate account money market assets the $4 billion of growth in period end assets was due to expected seasonality.
The year-end expiration of the government's unlimited insurance on non-interest-bearing bank accounts called TAG program likely accounted for some part of the money market fund asset growth for us and for the industry.
However it is not unusual for us to see money market inflows during the fourth quarter.
The impact of yield related waivers decreased in Q4 but we expect it to increase in Q1.
Tom will comment on this further in his remarks.
For the regulatory front I'll start out by noting that with the industry up $90 billion in money market assets in the fourth quarter it's obvious that money market investors have remained confident about the product as it's presently constructed: Dollar in dollar out; uninsured; transparent; invested in a diversified portfolio of high-quality securities; and supported by proper accounting and market valuations.
Still the regulators continue on their mission to reform money funds in ways that as presented by FSOC in their letter to the SEC in November will raise debt costs for municipal issuers corporations and others are causing investors to move cash to investments that are far less regulated have far less transparency and which in the case of the still too-big-to-fail banks present far more systemic risks to the financial system.
With the comment period extended until mid-February on FSOC's Section 120 SEC letter we continue to be active in informing our customers and the marketplace about the dangers of the measures outlined by the FSOC and to offer our help to the regulators to arrive at constructive changes.
Our position is straightforward.
We will continue to champion those things that enhance the resiliency of money market funds while retaining the core features of a sound product with an unparalleled long record of safety and success namely daily liquidity at par to the market rate of interest.
And now turning to our equity business.
Flows for equity mutual funds and separate accounts combined were slightly negative for the fourth quarter and solidly positive for the full year.
We continue to see solid demand for income-oriented equity products particularly the Strategic Value Dividend both in its domestic and international forms and the Capital Income Strategies.
Other strategies with net inflows included are Managed Volatility product in the variable annuity space Muni and Stock Advantage Clover Small Value International Leaders and Kaufmann's Large Cap.
Fourth quarter flows in equity separate accounts were strongly positive led by another strong performance by our Strategic Value SMA strategy.
2012 was a strong year for equity performance at Federated.
At the end of the year we had 13 equity strategies in a variety of styles with top quartile 3-year records and 11 in the top quartile for the 1-year period.
Some of the 3-year members include Strategic Value Dividend in both international and domestic forms Capital Income Kaufmann Large Cap InterContinental International Leaders 3 MDT Strategies Pru Bear and others.
In 2012 we saw a continued strong performance in our international strategies.
As mentioned the International Leaders Fund was in the top 1% of its category for 2012 and in the top 10% for the 3- 5- and 10-year periods.
Federated InterContinental Fund placed in the top 15% for 1 and 3 years.
Among our income strategies is the Capital Income Fund is top quartile for 1 3 5 and 10 years.
The Domestic and International Strategic Value Funds are top 8 and 14% for trailing 3 years in their respective categories.
These funds pursue a highly specialized highly defined income strategy targeting a 5% dividend and 5% growth in dividends.
Because of this broad category performance comparisons are much less relevant.
We also saw improvement in Kaufmann and MDT Strategies.
While all 3 Kaufmann strategies we're top quintile for 2012 the Large Cap Fund was in the top 1% of its performance ranking and the Small Cap Fund achieved results in the top 2% of its category.
Three MDT Strategies were in the top 15% of their categories for 2012.
Looking now at fixed income.
Net positive sales were $580 million in the fourth quarter and nearly $5 billion for the full year.
Our wide array of high-quality fixed income funds combined with effective product distribution enabled us to produce gain sharing shared gains in sales in 2012.
We had 30 bond funds which produced positive net sales in 2012.
These funds spanned a wide array of strategies including High Yield Unconstrained Corporate Blended Emerging Market Municipal Government and Stable Value.
Federated's market share gain of gross fixed income sales went from 1.58% in '11 to 1.79% as of the end of November.
In Q4 High Yield strategies had another solid quarter of inflows as did our Ultrashort and other short duration funds.
Spread products including our Total Return Strategic Income Floating Rate Strategic Income Emerging Market Debt and Federated Bond Funds had positive flows as well.
We ended the year with 11 fixed income strategies with top quartile 3-year records and 5 strategies in the top quartile on a 1-year basis.
Our 3-year members include Fed bond High Yield Intermediate Government Emerging Market debt Ultrashort Bond and others.
Fixed income separate account net sales were positive in Q4 with inflows in multiple strategies including High Yield Core Corporate and short duration.
Our FP activity for fixed income remain strong versus 2011.
We continue to see interest in a variety of areas Stable Value High Yield Total Return Core Broad Emerging Market and active cash and short duration.
A comment on early Q1 flows.
Overall equity flows are positive that's made up of equity fund net flows that are slightly negative for the first 3 weeks here of January and that's due mainly to Pru Bear outflows.
If we excluded the Pru Bear outflows the equity fund flows would have been positive.
Equity SMA's are solidly positive resulting in overall equity flows positive so far in the year.
Fixed Income fund flows are solidly positive for the first 3 weeks of January.
Now turning to overall fund performance and looking at MorningStar-rated funds.
45% of rated equity fund assets are 4- and 5-star products as of yearend and 64% are in 3- 4- and 5-star products.
For Bond Funds the comparable percentages are 39% 4- and 5-star; 78% 3 4 and 5 star.
As of January 23 Managed Assets were approximately $383 billion including $287 billion in money markets $36 billion in Equities and $60 billion in Fixed Income which includes our liquidation portfolio.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $255 billion.
So far here in January money fund assets have ranged between $253 billion and $258 billion and have averaged the $255 billion.
Looking at distribution.
2012 gross fund sales increased 4% from 2011 and are up 22% from 2010.
Just looking over the last 5 years measured from a pre-financial crisis benchmark year of 2007 we have more than doubled our gross sales of equity and fixed income funds from $10 billion in 2008 to over -- or 2007 to over $26 billion in 2012.
In the broker-dealer channel we have steadily expanded the number of advisors doing business with us and have grown the product set used by these advisors.
In the wealth management market Fixed Income Fund sales grew 9% in 2012 led by our Stable Value product for retirement programs and by High Yield strategies.
On the institutional side we continued to add institutional account assets adding to both separate accounts and funds.
We are proceeding with the transition to begin managing the $9.5 billion Massachusetts Municipal Depository Trust mandate that we won in August.
We expect to begin managing these assets in March.
As regards acquisitions and our offshore business we are laying the groundwork for growth in the Asia Pac region.
We have hired a headquarter staff for our new Asia Pacific subsidiary based in Melbourne Australia.
We will begin in 2013 to establish institutional distribution capabilities for various Federated strategies including U.S.
High Yield Core Broad and Emerging Market Debt.
Over time we also plan to develop Australian-based investment management capabilities expand our distribution capabilities to other parts of the Asia Pac region and eventually develop investment management capabilities in other parts of the region as well.
In Europe we have launched sales efforts with London-based Bury Street Capital to expand distribution for certain of our equity and fixed income UCITS products.
We expanded our UCITS product line in December.
We have worked with Bury Street to introduce our high-yield capabilities and to also focus on dividend strategies during the first quarter.
Our London-based Prime Rate Capital Management operation has seen assets increase from $4.2 billion this is quoted in dollars even though most of the money is in pound sterling but from $4.2 billion in dollars when our deal closed in April to about $5 billion in the fourth quarter.
We continue to look for alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Europe Asia as well as in the United States.
Tom? Thanks Chris.
Taking a look first at money fund fee waivers the impact to pretax income in Q4 was $15.5 million down from $16.3 million in the prior quarter.
The improvement was due mainly to higher rates for treasuries and mortgages and mortgage-related securities offset partially by lower yields for prime and muni securities and by higher assets.
Early in Q1 we have seen rates decrease in all money market categories compared to Q4.
Some of this is cyclical as Chris noted earlier we tend to see cash assets including money market fund buildup at year end and carryover into the first part of the next year.
As those assets compete for short-term instruments rates tend to tighten.
Factors such as the end of Operation Twist QE3.5 and the end of the TAG program are factors as well.
Combined with higher asset levels the impact of these minimum yield waivers is likely to be higher in Q1.
Based on the current assets and expected yield levels impact of minimum yield waivers to pretax income in Q1 could be approximately $21 million or $5.5 million more than in Q4.
Looking out over the rest of the year we think rates will rise as the economy improves and some of the seasonal pressures ease.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 40% and the 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
It's important to note that the variables impacting waivers can and do change frequently.
Revenues in Q4 increased 3% from the prior quarter due largely to average asset growth across all categories.
Operating expenses were up due to the previously discussed recognition of insurance reimbursement in the prior quarter.
Q4 results included $3 million in additional recognition of insurance reimbursement also in the professional services fee line.
Non-operating expense included $3 million impairment charge related to a change in the value of a minority interest investment.
Looking to Q1 the impact of having 2 fewer days in the quarter translates into about $4 million in lower operating income versus Q4 all other factors being equal of course.
For Q1 comp and related expense and early forecast is around $69 million with the variance from Q4 due mainly to incentive comp approval resets and seasonality in payroll and benefit costs.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Cash and investments totaled $259 million at year end.
During 2012 we paid the total of $2.47 per share in dividends to our shareholders including the $1.51 special dividend paid in November.
Q4 EPS was reduced by $0.04 per share as a result of the special dividend due to the 2-class method of computing EPS which requires that a portion of net income is a apportioned to unvested restricted shares for accounting purposes.
Looking forward cash and investments combined with the expected additional cash flows from operations and availability under present debt facilities provides us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisitions opportunities as well as fund-related contingent payments share repurchases dividend new products seeds and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
We would now like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just from higher level I wanted to talk about but competitive advantage at Federated in the money fund business.
So first maybe can you talk about the competitive advantage in your prime funds like why do institutional investors use your funds versus those say BlackRock Legg JPMorgan just the other big players in prime? On an overall basis you'll see several players playing in all 3 streets.
So our $100 billion of prime funds is related to our clients who in large part see us as a provider of a cash management service.
Most of our clients not all are dealing with us on an omnibus basis and we provide all sorts of additional services to them.
If you take a trust department they are used to dealing with Federated because even guys like me used to call on them back in the stone age in the '70s and we have a long heritage and culture dealing with them.
And so we know their problems we know their challenges we have legal accounting and service things that help them make a big difference.
So we withstood a lot of competition where people would come in and say "Oh will charge less " and things like that.
And I'd day "But yes but do you do A B and C which are all the services that are offered by Federated to these clients and have been doing so for many many years." So the chief competitive advantage we have as against some of the other players you mentioned is that degree of service and that degree customer contract over the long haul.
I'm going to let Debbie talk about the structure of the funds and how they might also be a distinguishing characteristic in both performance and structure.
I'll just add 2 things to Chris' answer.
One would be sort of the team approach and how we end up using that in the context of structural tendencies for our funds.
We generally have a bar bell approach we have dedicated portfolio managers analysts and traders all 3 doing different functions within that team approach for the management of our prime funds.
And the overall results from that team approach and that bar bell approach that typically is taken into account has been very good.
We've generally been in the top quartile from a performance basis across in a large groups of our peers and in the industry in addition to those that you mentioned.
Secondly I would say our disclosure and our response to customers has been excellent.
Certainly we obviously have to adhere to the requirements on a disclosure basis from Rule 2a-7 but we've done that in a way that number one has come out and disclosed items prior to any kind of rule making; and number 2 has been responsive to what our customers' needs are.
Some examples of those would be information on our European bank exposure that certainly has been a topic of discussion over the course of the last 2 years and we regularly publicize on our website the exposure in the various countries to the banks that we are using.
More recently this year we started providing daily portfolios to customers who want them not everybody wants them but for those who want them we have daily portfolio information that's available on a disclosure basis to our clients.
And just starting today we are actually starting to provide our shadow NAV for several of our prime funds.
So I think responsiveness to the marketplace and our customer base in particular has also been a huge advantage from Federated's perspective.
Research Division</strong> If I asked the same question on the treasury side which obviously different you don't have the same sort of credit issues it seems like the answer would be the same.
Is there any differences in terms of competitive advantage you have versus peers on the govie or treasury money market fund side that just already mentioned on the prime side? Well you're right.
It steers around the customer service because people tend to look at at least our customers do the whole array or family of funds.
And so they got all the services that Debbie and I have spoken of at one place and have many funds including the municipal funds the treasury the government and the prime.
So it is the array of services and they look at the transparency the competence and the service as being key elements.
I think too just one thing to add would be that we actually do undertake credit research within our government and treasury funds also in the context of our counterparty risks.
So we oftentimes in our govie and treasury funds are able to use repurchase agreements so the counterparty risk assessment is important in those particular products.
In addition we have analyst that covers the government agencies and the various of those that we use on their implicit and explicit support from the U.S.
government and their actual financial statements as they are reported on a periodic basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one won't beat the dead horse here.
Is the treasury side more or less or the same fee sensitive to the more credit sensitive products like the prime funds.
Like again the govie seems like there's less credit work there even though there are some.
Is it more -- are customers more fee sensitive there than elsewhere in the money fund business? We haven't noticed fee sensitivity being that fund specific at all.
What people are clued into is daily liquidity at par.
And so that the -- especially in the treasury and government funds where the yields float around 1 basis point which I know isn't the fee part but it's related.
The yield isn't as important the fee isn't important what's important is the cash management service in that particular bucket.
The next question comes from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First Chris can you talk a little bit about the rationale for starting to publish the money market NAVs on a daily basis was it sort of more of about not being a competitive disadvantage versus your competitors or maybe it sounds like it was more a function of client demand? And then related to that has your thinking changed at all as it relates to actually transitioning to floating NAVs? Well I'll answer the last one first.
No we're not transitioning to variable NAVs.
And any suggestion that A is related to B is is just not appropriate especially in our case.
Now to go to the first part of the question.
Once a bunch of our competitors decided to do it then the customers look at it and say "Hey if A and B are doing it why isn't C doing it?" And that's why we're doing it.
In the whole history of our money market fund area I'm not aware of anyone who ever asked for the current shadow NAVs on our funds.
On some due dili [diligence] trips we've had people who've asked for the historic daily valuations and so we've responded to that.
So it was definitely not client demand.
And as regards to clients so far what we can detect is publishing is a lot like lifting your hand out of a bucket of water and then seeing what impact you had.
But on the other hand I think that I would say that if having been done means that this is an area where the industry for whatever reasons and however it happened has taken the single most transparent financial product in the history of man and made it more transparent.
And that those who think that there are problems in the funds with disclosure ought to hit pause mode on doing things to destroy this industry because now you can look at these factors they're all published and see if there are things going on that you don't like.
It's certainly seemed to me should undercut some of the arguments in favor of doing some of the more drastic things you mentioned like changing the NAV.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe switching gears a bit.
Can you talk about how you see both your equity and fixed income fund businesses positioned assuming retail investors increasingly get more comfortable taking on more risks and start maybe reallocating their portfolios in favor of equities? Well we're seeing a little inkling of that here in the first couple of weeks to the year.
But the main thing is that -- and the reason I went through all of that those comments in my remarks listing all the various areas where we have good performing products.
The 13 equity funds with 3-year top quartile record means that we have plenty of buckets in plenty of spaces wherever their clients and their advisors wish to go risk on or risk off.
So I think we are in as good a position as we have been in for a long time on exactly that point.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe one for Tom.
First just to clarify did you say when you were talking about the first quarter compensation expense you expected it to be $65 million to $69 million or was it just $69 million? Yes.
I said -- I slipped up and said $65 million and it's $69 million that we expected to be.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just from a capital management perspective are you maybe a bit more focused on kind of building up liquidity as opposed to share repurchases for the time being just given the recent special dividend? Well we have a history of if we've done a big acquisition or paid a big dividend that we've built things up afterwards.
But then I'll immediately say hey it depends on what's going on in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping this question was a little bit already asked but I want ask it in a slightly different way.
Just stepping back and looking at your money fund clients the proposals that we are seeing out there from the ICI comment letter and that sort of thing who do you think -- which of your client buckets would you say is most wary of these changes or accepting of them? And where do you see some of those pressures falling? Or even discussions you're having pretty consistently with clients already? Are you asking about the FSOC letter? But I thought you said the ICI comment letter? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry I'm referring to the ICI.
Okay.
So you're referring to their -- we have to explain to everybody what that is.
The ICI's idea as I understand it is to have liquidity fee gates so that when certain times are reached in the life of a money fund related to the liquidity available that then there would be charges in order to get out of the funds.
And we don't think that this particular item is a necessary item to do.
On the other hand if the threshold for that occurring is something that Debbie and we think we can consistently meet then it would probably not destroy the products.
And so that would -- that comment addresses all of our clients who come in on an institution or omnibus basis.
They wouldn't like it in effect but I don't think that if the threshold is say 7.5% of weekly cash or whatever someone comes up with like that then I don't think that's going to be a big problem.
If any of those things though are adopted we have taken the position that they should be included with the ability of the fund to do a voluntary gating before that happens.
And voluntary gating has taken on the nomenclature of the right of the fund and the directors of the fund to be able to on a temporary basis say for 10 days or some amount of days gate the fund in order to do what? In order to treat all shareholders equally fairly equitably and to prevent other problems and to give time to solve problems.
And the origin of this idea comes out of our experience with the Putnam organization back in 2008.
They taught us the lesson because their board when faced with big redemptions and no problem in their portfolio hit pause mode on redemptions put the funds with our funds.
And a week later all shareholders who wanted to redeem or redeemed at a dollar and it was no harm no foul.
PS this voluntary gating also is in the authority of the Irish funds that we have and was used by European fund managers to good effect also.
So that is how I would respond to that portion of the ICI's proposal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just on the non-comp expenses a little bit of noise with the insurance recognition so just hoping you can give us your thought on growth? How are you thinking about marketing and professional fees that sort of thing going into 2013 as well? Marketing and distribution is going to relate to big time on what's happening with waivers.
So outside of the waiver comment if we grow equity and fixed assets we have marketing and distribution payments that get paid and that will increase.
So that's one of those old things that I used to call a success item and that expense line goes up.
That's good because we're getting equity in fixed income assets.
In terms of any of the other categories outside of comp I don't think we have any unexpected things going on there except for traditional growth and we've already commented on Asia Pacific so there will be office space things and computers and things related to that but I'm counting that in the dollars that we talked about last quarter.
Ray do you have any...
The professional service fees we gave you the offset and that one bounces around depending on particular things that we're doing.
But aside from the Asia Pac office which is not -- that will ramp up a bit more as we go through 2013 but those increments will be in the hundreds of thousands from what was in the Q4 numbers.
So some of that's already in the run rate.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final one for me and then I'll jump back in.
We already talked a little bit about January flows and you guys gave some good color there.
But for the industry overall dynamic and what you guys are seeing when you're selling equity and fixed income funds are you seeing any significant shift from fixed income to equities or is it kind of more money coming off the sidelines to both at this point? I think if I look at our equity funds sales and just look at it on a monthly basis you can see a bit of a pickup from a gross sale standpoint recognizing that we're literally talking about a couple weeks of data.
We're looking at numbers that go through the end of last week so they're not even reflective of this week.
If you do the same thing on fixed income you would see a bit of a decrease say in gross sales on a run-rate basis January versus December.
So I think the answer is yes we're seeing some of that but it isn't like a U turn.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz form Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed it you said you gained some market share in money market this quarter.
Can you tell me where it ended the quarter versus third quarter? You mean on the 9.6% versus 9.5%? Research Division</strong> You did mention it I'm sorry I missed that.
I don't know if I did or not.
9.6% versus 9.5% I think I may have said slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the institutional channel you ticked off a number of RFPs and more of a fixed income orientation toward them just sort of wondering similarly comment here are you seeing on the institutional side any traction from the equity footprint in any way or is this still more fixed income? The RFP activity is still weighted toward fixed income Bill.
But we have seen interest on equity as well but I would tell you that it looks like the RFPs the activity is still weighted to fixed.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one coming in on back to your retail comment.
Within the equity component where are you seeing the greatest lift at the margin? In terms of product flows we're...
Research Division</strong> You mentioned gross sales were up a little bit where are you seeing the delta other than Pru Bear I recognize that but on the other side? Yes.
I would look at the strategic value products and in particular the International Strategic Value Fund that's come out of the gate with good strong flows.
The domestic strategic value flow is solidly positive for the first couple of weeks of January so on a higher run rate than what we would have seen and it was positive in Q4 but it's already more positive in the first part of Q1 than it was in all of Q4.
Our next question comes from Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to go back to the money funds again.
But Chris I was just curious I mean stepping back a second it seems certainly possible that some type of change now or likely that some type of change takes place at the money funds than -- while the exact form is unknown but how do you think about having to evolve your product line into kind of your non-money fund short duration proxy.
I know you have a lot of Ultrashort products and they've been successful.
But are there specific new products or strategies you're thinking about or rolling out that you think in advance of potential for a significant change that may better position to capture some assets if they do end up moving with change down the road? I'm just trying to get a feel for how you think you respond to that change.
Well assuming the dread occurs which is kind of what you're asking I'll first stop at the idea that there's less than $100 billion in Ultrashort funds compared to $2.6-plus trillion in money market funds and the Ultrashort funds have much bigger yield and very modest change in NAV.
So any of the new products that have those characteristics namely a higher yield and a little bit of a change in NAV are not going to be favored by the customers.
So the answer is not going to be creative variable in asset value product.
The creativity is going to be coming up with products that are as close to $1 as you can get them.
And whether that is re-going over the enhanced cash products whether it's looking at collective funds common funds whether it's looking at offshore funds whether it's looking at private accounts separate accounts whether it's looking expanding the province of estate pools you do all of those kinds of things because your goal at that point which I don't think we'll get to because I think good policy will win out your goal is still the dollar-in dollar-out type net asset value as best as you can do it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then may be shifting gears a little bit.
If memory serves me I think you guys have filed for an ETF product short duration ETF products if I'm not mistaken.
So maybe if you could just update us on your thoughts on your strategy for expanding into -- or building some ETF products and kind of expanding your -- the ways in which you offer your strategies.
I mean do you -- what's kind of the goal and when do you think you'd be launching maybe this initial product? Yes.
We did file that ETF as kind of a defensive thing to see if there was a potential to have a $1 net asset value type product in ETF.
So we filed that worked on it and there had been a couple of them that have come out into the marketplace but none of them have the key feature of daily liquidity at par.
And so I don't expect that to go too far right now with us in terms of the products.
So that's the story on ETFs.
And I don't see us launching a family of ETFs either.
And I think that's really what's necessary.
The top 3 have what? 80% or 85% of the assets and that's a very competitive field punctuated by price competition and lots of funds being excised from the marketplace each year.
I think last year there were 40 of them that were withdrawn.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean maybe just this thing on the EPS for a moment.
I mean TIMCO obviously had some success with launching an ETF version of their Total Return Fund.
You've had very successful more traditional structures than your total return type products in fixed income.
And do you see kind of the ETF structure even if it's not a full family but kind of offering your investment capabilities selectively in ETF as being a way of at least attacking a new kind of customer base? Well we have looked at that and continue to look at it about every 6 weeks and have not concluded that that's the best opportunity we have to focus where we're going.
It's not to say that it won't happen but as of this point all the other things that we're doing like setting up an operation in Australia like growing the prime rate in London like doing the distribution through Bury Street in Europe and through the regular blocking and tackling of a now increased sales force domestically are to us far better opportunities.
Our next question comes from Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple of questions just on the seasonality of the flows.
Is it possible to give a sense of how much of the money market flows you would consider seasonal what the normal pattern is in terms of those going back out? And second on the Ultrashort flows it looks like that's -- the main source of inflows to taxable in the quarter at least on the fund side and so I'm wondering if any of those were seasonal too or due to expiration of TAG.
On the seasonality for the fourth quarter if we've talked to our sales reps who are in touch with the clients it could -- they contend that about $6 billion of the $11 billion can sort of be pushed at the TAG accounts and the rest of it would be either new accounts or seasonality.
And so half of it one way half of it the other.
It's -- we see these kinds of numbers we experienced it last year.
Money came in Q4 then went out during Q1 right up till tax season and so we expect TAG to happen again.
But when you have as many omnibus clients as we have it's really tough to track exactly where that money comes from.
It doesn't come with a TAG label on it so you have to do a little bit of investigation on it.
So it's like I said in the remarks that I'm sure some of it came from there the incidental notion is $6 billion and I'd be inclined to go with that.
And Ray will comment on the Ultrashort.
Yes.
Cynthia I'd point out on the Ultrashort no we wouldn't necessarily put a TAG sensitivity to that money.
The Ultrashorts have grown pretty steadily for us as they tend to do in -- when the money fund yields are lower.
We've seen that in prior cycles and we would expect that to reverse when and as interest rates increase which will happen at some point but no we wouldn't point that to TAG.
And then talking about the Q4 fixed income flows the strongest area for us was -- it would have been in the high-yield space so obviously a much different profile than Ultrashort.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the total return you mentioned you're still getting RFPs but it looked to me like the fund turned to outflows in November and December.
So why would the 2 have different flow profiles with the same performance? Yes.
The total return was positive for the quarter and it's solidly positive here in the first part of January.
That strategy has an excellent long-term record through various cycles on a -- taking into account the risk that that product -- risk profile that product relative to peers.
It resonates very well with institutional audiences with the consultants.
And so we find that that's a continued and an ongoing source of interest from clients especially looking at it through the institutional lens.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And maybe just one last follow-up on the expenses not to take it line item by line item.
But systems and communication was a little bit lower.
Is that a sustainable number? Do you see that sort of flat for 2013? I would expect -- we're continuing to invest in technology and a lot of the technology ends up in there and you're probably just seeing timing of when we expense things and I would not expect that to trend down no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just one more follow-up.
You mentioned a $3 million expense I guess it was related to an intangible cost of some kind.
Can you just elaborate on what that was? No that's a minority interest investment that we had.
By the accounting rules we have to look at the company that we are invested in and put a value on it.
And once assets decline and then asset decline again and then finally it gets to a point where under accounting rules it's -- other than temporarily impaired then we have to go in and put our own valuation on it.
So that was a $3 million expense for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what company was that? It's one of the small investments that we've had and we weren't talking about the name of the company.
And the valuation what's left is about $3.6 million to $3.8 million.
So it's not going to be a big item going forward.
Our next question comes from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm still trying to understand the significance of this so called shadow NAV concept and what -- to pose my question what I did first is I placed myself in the shoes of a customer and I was thinking to myself suppose I read in the newspaper -- and I'm just going to make up some numbers here to illustrate my point and frame the question.
Suppose I read in the newspaper that the shadow NAV is $0.9985 one day and $0.9983 the next day so we're talking about sort of the fourth decimal point changing.
What are consumers supposed to do with this information and why is this interesting information and helpful information? I just don't understand why this is anything but very boring in most cases.
You have captured it very accurately that's why I said it's like lifting your hand out of a bucket of water and looking at it.
It's why I also said that as far as I know we've never had clients asked for it except on subsequent due dili [diligence] where some people just wanted to see it.
And I don't know what customers will make of it.
That's why I said that from what we've heard so far since these things I think we're either publishing ours today or tomorrow today they aren't that interested in them.
We'll see what happens.
And so it's not a big deal.
But there have been people at the commission who have -- some of whom have wanted it disclosed like this for some considerable amount of time which is fine.
There have been other arguments that putting that out there instead of on a 60-day delay basis which is what we have now can cause more problems than it solves.
But we never felt one way or the other about it.
It helps the transparency.
And now that it exists I'm taking the position that hey let's see how this looks for people and see what kind of actions you get.
If this is something that is going to cause an issue or cause people to arb the funds and things like that well boy we'll sure find that.
P.S.
at $1 NAV I am unaware of how any one successfully arbitrages the money fund.
Maybe I can just add 2 additional points.
Number  one I think to some degree this will help mitigate some of the perhaps sensationalization of NAV mark-to-market or shadow pricing versus the amortized cost fictional pricing as they generally refer to it as.
The fact that for the most part what you'll see is movement in the fourth decimal point as you indicated in your question it makes it very boring and makes it very apparent I think that what has been mentioned as incorrect or a fictional pricing from an amortized cost basis was shown to be exactly wrong.
And that in fact when you look at the shadow pricing you compare it to the trading NAV as conducted by the amortized cost pricing is identical.
Secondly I think to some degree it deserves a little bit of educational purposes -- or educational ideas from a standpoint of disclosure so that customers realize that even though we're giving them a price that shows on a shadow NAV calculated basis 1.0001 they're still trading in $1 they're not trading to the fractions of $0.01.
And we also have available on our website as of yesterday is an educational piece that helps clients understand that a little bit better.
So maybe some of the very boring will still continue but at least it will be occurring in an education -- in a more educated form.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean isn't it the case -- I have a question of an entirely unrelated nature related to equity investing.
But isn't it the case that the incidents of -- the number of instances in the history of the money fund business in which to quote real NAV or the shadow NAV market value NAV has departed from that base on amortized cost.
But the number of instances has been very low.
I mean I'm not trying to...
It's been exactly 2 1 in 1994 in Colorado and 1 the reserve fund in 2008.
So there have been exactly 2 and that's with almost 40 years of activity and $325 trillion of money moving through money funds successfully at $1.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have one quick question about -- that sort of builds on the earlier question about no one mentioned a rotation into equities from fixed income but that was sort of the spirit of the question.
And my question is how does really anybody know whether that's happening in the sense that you can see say positive flows into your equities but do you -- my specific question is when you see customers buying your equity funds and when you enjoy a positive net flows do you know for sure where the money is coming from? No we do not.
And generally the reason is that unlike people who have direct retail customers on their books we overwhelmingly have omnibus accounts.
And that's why Ray's answer was well you can see some movement in that direction and things like that.
It's very tough for us to say that any individual investor rotated from fixed income to equity or equity to fixed income.
We don't see the individual data associated with the individual investor.
LLC Research Division</strong> And by omnibus account you mean? By omnibus accounts I mean that we will have a relationship with a trust department or for that matter a brokerage firm and that underneath of that they will be maneuvering their clients here and there and they will come to us as one net trade so that we don't see behind the curtain as to what's going on in the individual trust account or the individual broker-dealer account.
It will be one net trade for us.
Our next question comes from Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chris I don't know if I missed this but can you just go through now with the comment period extended what do you think the timeline of events are for money market fund reform? And then I know it's tough to handicap but what do you project could be the outcome here from the reform perspective? Okay.
On the timeline I think it's next -- it's mid-February the FSOC extended the deadline.
And so comments come in comments have to be evaluated however long that takes FSOC hasn't told us.
Then FSOC has the ability to either come up with a proposal to the SEC or to not come up with a proposal to the SEC.
And if the SEC receives that proposal they then have to put it into a rule form then they have to publish the rule and give a 60- or 90-day comment period then receive the comments back and then construct the rule.
So it's very hard under that sequence to get any of that completed before even Labor Day.
Another sequence that is possible at any time is the usual SEC process which I just added on to the end of the FSOC process.
So if the SEC decides to come up with a rule proposal they have to internally come up with a term sheet gives the commissioners 30 days to look at it and say this that be in favor or not then vote on it or not.
Then if they vote on it then they publish it then they have 60 or 90 days and sometimes even longer comment period then accept comments and then decide to come up with a rule and then have whatever implementation time they deem appropriate in the rule.
So that's kind of the timeline.
Now for the second part of the question making book on know this comes up.
Having been at this business for 40 years and dealing with the regulators at various times the SEC the Fed and others now FSOC it's very very hard to make book on how these things will come up.
My belief is that good regulation and good regulatory policy will win out.
And that there has been no evidence put out that shows sins committed by money funds or a need to be draconian about the industry.
And therefore I don't think those kinds of things will happen.
But I'm not in charge of it and it's really hard to exactly predict it but I would say that if any of those things like I was asked about earlier on an earlier call come to fruition I am certain that the regulators understand what they're dealing with and there will be long times of the implementation because of how important and how sensitive these issues are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just somewhat related can you talk about the -- your institutional business building that out building your presence in the institutional channel? And to what extent if any do you think that this is -- that the money market reform is -- to what extent is that an overhang for consultants potentially and RFP activity going forward? Well it's interesting in the question of overhang that back in the days when the money funds were growing like crazy and everything and we'd get the question "Well geez is that helping you on the institutional side or anywhere?" The answer was no." "And does it impact you on the other side of it when money funds are being attacked or criticized?" And the answer is no.
The whole game on the money fund side is really independent of all of the efforts.
And that's why it's good to have a small handful of us spending time on dealing with the money market fund things and then have 1 450 other people with real jobs doing real work advancing the ball for the company right? Marc I'll just add to that.
One trend we've seen since '08 it was rare to see in RFP in the cash area there were some enhanced cash and things like that.
But -- and then through '09 and '10 we saw big increases in the RFP levels for cash because people started to understand that there were differences in process and approach and resources.
And so that's come down a bit off of the peak it's still active.
And so that in and of itself gives us a good opportunity to tell our story and differentiate it.
And a critical thing here is that there will be no matter what happens if anything in the realm of money market mutual funds we know that there will be a demand for an intermediary between people who have money that they want to invest on a short-term basis and issuers who want to issue on that basis.
And so we do well whenever that reaches an institutional process a consulting process.
And we've won quite a few mandates in the cash area and in the bond area.
Even as the noise level on money funds has reached a higher level over the last year we've had about 20%-plus increase in our RFP level on the fixed income side and that's across a pretty wide array of strategy.
So we certainly haven't seen any of that effect to this point.
Our next question comes from Roger Freeman of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to come back real quickly on the NAV thing.
If the balances are really -- and looking at your data where you disclose every day this year at literally 1.00.
What is the issue is it just actually moving to that? And it seems like it will be a fairly easy thing to concede from -- to the extent there's any negotiation between the industry and regulators and there's been no stir since this data has been put out there.
Well when you say move to it if you mean moving to the fourth decimal place or doing what FSOC's suggested which is pricing at $100 then that basically kills the money market fund product because it forces the money market fund net asset value to change.
Now if you're -- what you're saying is you continue to price it at $1 and round to $0.01 well then fine that's no harm no foul.
But that's not what FSOC has suggested.
And I think that the industry would agree that hey if you can price it at $1 and round to $0.01 then let's get on with it.
But I assure you that's not their suggestion.
Research Division</strong> And do you think the users of money market funds even though they see this data know that it's not exactly 1 versus if it were actually priced that way that the difference between knowing and seeing is -- that that actually generates a -- would generate withdrawals? I don't believe so because I think that most of the clients who have been in this for a long time realize that the variable net asset value or I mean the shadow price has been a little off and then corrects itself.
And they realize more importantly that we own high-quality securities that march to maturity and that amortized cost is a much simpler way of taking care of these rather minute changes that have occurred over time.
And even during the worst of times in '08 you didn't have NAVs historically on these funds move from the 9 998 to 1 002.
So it is -- they realized that you can't precisely measure these things.
The other point about it that should be underscored is that under the Investment Company Act the boards and the advisors are called upon to value these funds at fair value.
And even under the amortized cost method the board still has the duty to make sure that that's fair value.
So that duty continues every single day at every single price to make sure that it is fair value.
And all of us under the 2010 amendments are required to be able to move to a variable NAV when as and if it is determined that the amortized cost price no longer represents fair value.
And so we have those mechanisms baked in the cake right now.
But the primary duty of the board on pricing is fair value and amortized cost has been about well the first 2a-7 came out in '82.
So call it a 30-year blessed and regulated event by the SEC.
Chris just a follow-up on that and I'm not sure Roger if you were asking why our customers would not want to be in the money fund that wasn't a dollar is that part of what you were looking for? Research Division</strong> Yes not $1 that really is $1 because we're talking 3 and 4 decimal points.
Right.
Let me Chris go on over the studies that we've done and the others have done we know that our customers want it to be $1.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
That's helpful.
Just lastly do you have any thoughts or early read on what Mary Jo White's position on any of this might be or whether this will be a priority? Anything about her? No I don't.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just on the relationship between what the distributors are sharing versus what Federated has to bear in terms of fee-waivers that ratio has ticked up the last couple of quarter.
I'm just a little curious given your guidance of sort of a little bit of a step-up and I know there's a lot of moving parts to where the money markets are coming from what distribution channels or products or what have you.
How should we think about that relationship as any kind of offset if at all? Yes.
Bill that one is tough to predict because it does depend on the underlying mix of the assets across the roughly 40 products.
So it would be very tough to give you much guidance on that.
I think the best we can do would be to look back at the range that it's been in which we've gone through and if you took an average of those ranges because there really is not any basis I could give you to predict it.
The final questions comes from Edwin Groshans of Height Analytics.
LLC</strong> Chris my first question is sort of in reference to your response to the question on the ICI comment letter and you noted that in some of your funds in Ireland that you did hit the pause button there.
So I guess...
Timeout.
No I said that we have the authority to hit the pause button there.
We did not hit the pause button there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right sorry.
Okay.
Because that was -- the point of the question is I think Sheila Bair and -- just submitted their comment letter on and pushing for floating NAV and saying their capital is really not the way to go.
And her and others continue to say that the reason that they're not supportive of gates is that they would expect that there would be a rush ahead of the gates going up to get out of the system.
And I guess my question would have been have you seen that or has the industry seen that in these instances where the gates were employed? Was there -- was it a rush on 1 or 2 days or was there something that happened weeks in advance leading up to the preponderance of withdrawals? What happened with Putnam was that they had a $12 billion fund all good securities.
And in the aftermath of all of the shenanigans going on that weekend with Merrill then with Lehman then with reserve and then the AIG thing which really shocked the market they had many of their investors were coming through platform so they really didn't know their customer base.
So then they showed up I think it was on that Thursday with $6 billion worth of redemptions against the $12 billion fund.
And so they called us up and said "Hey what do you think?" We said "Well if it's worth a dollar we'll put them into our funds.
We have no problem with that as long as we have liquidity in the system." And so the Fed put its program in where basically went up to State Street and they lent money to State Street and we sold securities to State Street at amortized cost and these were securities that Fed had preselected as being proper quality and inside 90 days and liquidated the $6 billion a week later and kept the customers and moved on.
And so the point of that is within the face of those kinds of redemptions when you have a good portfolio within 1 week by putting that gate down they were able to find a solution to the problem and then not have to liquidate the fund and not have to make a big splash in the press and not give first mover advantage totally prevent the run and treat all shareholders fairly and equitably and I'm the only one who ever talks about this example as if it never happened.
LLC</strong> Great.
That's excellent color because I do -- that is the continuous pushback on the gates is that everybody will jump out early and they run into the same problem.
All right.
The other question I have has to deal with I guess recent comments by SEC Commissioner Gallagher.
And it seems that he's been out there talking about being in support of or could be in support of floating NAVs.
And I guess from my perspective it seems like that's a little bit of a change in his position from where he was in the summer and I just wanted to hear what you thought of either the positioning that he's doing.
Is he just explaining different possibilities? Do you think there's a push to go in that direction at the SEC? I think that the first comment I'd make is that the jurisdictional aspects of this situation are important.
And I don't think the SEC is interested in losing jurisdiction to FSOC nor do I think it's appropriate that they do so because the SEC has actually done a very sound job on money funds for 40 years and it is inappropriate for FSOC to even threaten to take the jurisdiction.
So that's number  one.
Number two as I've read Commissioner Gallagher's statements he has always talked about when he's talked about being enamored of a variable NAV 2 things: done properly and all of the other operational problems having been solved.
I don't know exactly what done properly would mean but I have some sense of what it means to solve all the other operational problems.
It means having the IRS solve all the problems of capital gains and losses that are being accounted for.
It means solving the wash sale rules.
It means declaring that these funds are still cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of accounting.
It means revising the investment company requirements as to sending out confirmations.
And it requires timing and understanding so that as they say you can get to the point where you eliminate all of those minute changes and the systems have to be changed for that.
And I frankly don't think they're in line to get all that accomplished.
The next thing that is included in my mind in all operational problems are state laws.
And the answer you get when you ask about state laws is "Well gee that's not our jurisdiction." But yet as a substantial amount of our clients and clients in the industry that are required under state law to invest at a dollar in and a dollar out they are governed under indentures they're governed under escrow accounts et cetera.
And so these things are not even on the agenda of being solved.
So SEC commissioners take their positions and they are playing at an open field and trying to do the best they can and other SEC commissioners have said other things and we just deal with them as best we can.
LLC</strong> I agree.
I think to get all those small issues resolved I mean I think you get the IRS involved you get FASB involved.
It just seems that the coordination on there is going to be difficult to achieve.
What about if they decide -- or have you heard anything about splitting off and setting maybe just prime funds to floating NAV and leaving government funds as stable value? From both our customers on behalf of our customers and on behalf of the issuers that we use I and we are unwilling even to offer to throw under the bus the commercial paper market or the yields that are available and the importance of that short-term financing.
And so yes people have come up with those ideas some of them talk in their book which is fine that's what we do in a competitive industry but I don't think that's necessary nor appropriate.
LLC</strong> Right.
Well I think it's just -- I think it's unusual that there's this discussion of just having prime funds go to floating NAV and then a number of players in the industry including Federated all of a sudden publishing these shadow NAVs on a daily basis.
So that to me seems too coincidental not to be tied together in some way shape or form.
I can't get into the motives of how people do things when they do them other than what we do.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Well that concludes our call and we thank you for joining us today.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ray Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you sir.
You may now begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Today as usual we have some brief remarks before opening up for your questions.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
And joining us for the Q&amp;A is Debbie Cunningham who is the Chief Investment Officer for our money market area.
And let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray.
I'll begin today with a brief review of Federated's recent business performance and Tom will comment on our financials.
Looking first at cash management.
Average of money market fund to assets were up about $2 billion from Q4.
And period-end money fund assets decreased by $13 billion.
As in prior years we saw money fund assets grow going into year end and then decreased in the first quarter.
Most of the decrease came from bank-related channels where we saw about $9 billion come in in Q4 and then the same amount leave in Q1.
We had a similar experience in the broker/dealer channel where we gained $3 billion in the fourth quarter and decreased by about the same amount in the first quarter.
Our market share for money market funds decreased slightly in the first quarter.
Money market separate account assets were up $8 billion in the first quarter with most of the increase coming from the addition of previously discussed State of Massachusetts' mandate.
As expected the impact of yield-related fee waivers increased in Q1 and Tom will cover that.
On the regulatory front.
Public comments from an SEC commissioner indicate that a proposal may be forthcoming in the next couple of months "near-term." Unless and until a proposal is put out for comment there's not much in the way of additional commentary that I can make.
We continue to advocate for sound policy that enhances the resiliency of money funds for our clients who fully understand that money funds like other investments have elements of risk.
They are not interested in radical and unnecessary changes like floating NAVs holdbacks or capital requirements.
Money fund investors have remained confident in the product as presently constructed a dollar in and a dollar out uninsured transparent invested in a diversified portfolio of high-quality securities and supported by proper accounting and market valuations.
Our position is straightforward.
We will continue to champion those things that enhance the resiliency of money funds while retaining the core features of a sound product with an unparalleled long safety record and success all based on daily liquidity at par with the market rate of interest.
Now turning to equities.
While flows for equity mutual funds and separate accounts combined were slightly negative in the first quarter we had solid results in a number of products.
On strategies with net inflows included international equities led by International Leaders a core blend fund and the International Strategic Dividend Fund.
The Kaufmann Large Cap Growth Fund had a step-up in flows in the first quarter and this has continued in the early part of the second quarter.
Blend products including Capital Income and Muni and Stock Advantage also produced solid inflows.
Our net sales results were impacted by model changes made by a couple of clients using this Strategic Value Dividend strategy.
These changes resulted in about $600 million of lumpy redemptions in the first quarter.
The clients attributed the changes to a desire to add more beta to their mixes.
The Strategic Value Dividend strategy continues to be in demand by investors attracted by its income objective a 5% yield and a 5% growth rate in its income stream.
For the first couple of weeks of the second quarter the fund returned to solidly positive inflows.
Pru Bear had negative flows in the first quarter not surprising given the strong equity market conditions.
This fund has had positive flows for the first couple of weeks of April.
Q1 flows in equity separate accounts were solidly positive driven by Strategic Value SMA strategy.
We also saw inflows in a couple of Clover value strategies and in an international equity strategy.
A comment on early second quarter flows equity flows are solidly positive led by domestic and international Strategic Value Dividend strategies Kaufmann Large Cap and Capital Income Funds.
11 different equity funds have positive flows for the first 3 weeks of April including Pru Bear Managed Volatility the aforementioned Capital Income and Kaufmann Large Muni Stock InterContinental International Leaders Clover Small and Equity Income Fund.
Equity SMA flows are negative early in the second quarter due to model changes that have impacted one of the MDT strategies.
Combined equity and SMA flows are slightly negative.
Looking at equity performance at the end of the first quarter we had 13 equity strategies in a variety of styles with top quartile 3-year records and 10 in the top quartile for the 1-year period.
Turning now to fixed income.
High-yield strategies had another strong quarter of inflows.
Ultrashort funds were positive as were Floating Rate Total Return Emerging Market Debt and Federated Bond funds.
At quarter end we had 11 fixed income strategies with top quartile 3-year records and 8 in the top quartile on a 1-year basis.
Fixed income separate accounts were slightly negative.
Results included a $360 million redemption from a client whose asset allocation decision was really rerisking.
Our RFP activity for fixed income increased in the first quarter versus the rate in 2012.
Our fixed income flows are slightly negative for the first 3 weeks of April.
However we are pleased to announce this week that we won about a $200 million account from the State of Delaware in the short-duration mandate area.
Turning to overall fund investment performance and looking at the Morningstar-rated funds just under 1/2 of the rated equity fund assets are in 4- and 5-star products as of the end of the quarter and a little over 3/4 are in 3- 4- and 5-star products.
For bond funds the comparable percentages are just over 40% 4- and 5-star and just under 80% 3- 4- and 5-star.
During the first quarter 2 of our income funds the Capital Income Fund and the Federated Strategic Income Fund won Lipper Awards as leaders in their respective categories for consistent return for the 10-year period ended 12/31/2012.
As of April 24 managed assets were approximately $375 billion including $277 billion in money markets $38 billion in equities and $60 billion in fixed income which includes the liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $239 billion.
So far in April money fund assets have ranged between $237 billion and $245 billion and have averaged $241 billion.
As a reminder we and the industry typically see tax-related outflows in money funds assets in April.
Looking at distribution.
Equity fund gross sales grew by 24% in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
We saw the strongest growth in the wealth management trust channel at plus 32% followed by broker/dealer at plus 23% and institutional at plus 12%.
Fixed income sales grew by 20% in broker/dealer channel versus Q4 and we're up 9% in wealth management trust channel.
In the broker/dealer channel we continue to leverage our investment in additional distribution capacity.
We are expanding the number of advisors doing business with us and grow the product set used by these advisors.
The number of advisors doing business with us is nearing 39 000 up from 29 000 in 2008.
On the institutional side we completed the onboarding process to begin management of the $7.1 billion Massachusetts Municipal Deposit Trust in March and continued to be active in pursuing other state mandates for both cash management and fixed income pools.
I just recently mentioned the Delaware victory.
At quarter end we had about $200 million in equity and fixed income institutional accounts yet to be funded.
To this we would add the Delaware amount giving us about a $400 million pipeline.
Acquisitions and offshore business.
We continue to develop our Asia Pac operation in Australia.
We're evaluating strategies to offer and expect to begin adding sales personnel later in 2013.
In Europe we had our first trades booked in April from our expanded distribution efforts with Bury Street Capital and look forward to growing this during 2013.
We continue to look for alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Europe and Asia as well as the United States.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Taking a look first at money fund fee waivers.
As expected the impact to pretax income in Q1 was $21.7 million up from $15.5 million in the prior quarter.
The increase was due mainly to lower rates for treasury and mortgage-related securities.
Based on current assets and expected yield levels the impact of minimum yield waivers to pretax income in Q2 could be similar to the level it was in the first quarter.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 40% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
It's important to note that the variables impacting waivers can and do frequently change.
Revenues in Q1 decreased 7% from the prior quarter due largely to minimum yield waivers and fewer days partially offset by higher average assets for equities fixed income and money markets.
Operating expenses decreased from Q4 due largely to lower distribution expenses due to minimum yield waivers and fewer days.
Comp and related included a reversal of $3 million of incentive compensation expense that was accrued in 2012 but not paid.
For Q2 comp and related expense an earlier -- an early forecast is around $69 million.
The increase in professional service fees was due to $3 million of insurance reimbursements in Q4 and change in nonoperating income was due mainly to the Q4 $3 million charge related to the impairment of a minority interest investment.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Cash investments totaled $307 million at quarter end of which about $24 -- or $224 million is available to us.
Our net debt remained below $100 million.
And looking forward cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flows from operations and availability under present debt facilities provide us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities and related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new product seeds and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
That completes our presentation and we would now like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First Chris just maybe to follow up on the regulatory front.
It does seem like the FSOC and the SEC are still kind of working through the next round of recommendations if you will.
But if in fact they do opt to kind of go down the floating NAV route just any sense of what sort of contingency plans maybe some of your institutional clients are considering particularly as it relates to potential alternatives that they might be looking at? Well as regards what these guys might come up with whether it's a variable NAV or not it's a separate subject which we can get into.
But get to your question is the alternatives we've discussed this on the calls before.
We have a very large separate account business which works very well for large clients very large clients and so that is one thing that can be considered.
Moving funds to offshore can be considered.
Moving funds to other types of products enhanced cash et cetera can be considered.
Moving products to depository institutions and largely larger banks would also be considered.
So all of these things and there are other new products that I think could get created that haven't even shown up yet.
Some have filed including us various forms of ETFs.
But the thing about all of these alternatives is that none of them are as good for the customer the economy or the issuer as the money market fund.
But that would be an array of potential options.
Obviously the simplest one is if they throw prime funds under the buses then everybody runs over the government funds.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then for Tom just wondering broadly speaking where you kind of see the leverage in the model.
Are there sort of further expense efficiencies that can drive margins higher or is it really mostly a function of kind of the underlying mix and revenue growth going forward? I think we're on the latter part.
We continue to manage things pretty efficiently on a cost basis.
And if we get some growth in here we would expect some nice leverage.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally can you just give us an update on what you're seeing in terms of M&amp;A opportunities out there as it relates to kind of supply or the level of competition or maybe some pricing trends particularly as it relates to the types of properties that you sort of highlighted sort of institutional equities -- I'm sorry international equities if you will? Right.
And that's kind of been a bigger part of our focus although you're -- kind of a couple of different ways of looking at it.
We have our roll-ups in the U.S.
which we continue to look to do and -- but we in particular focus on the Asia Pac business with -- Gordy's there as CEO and Craig Bingham out talking to many different parties and looking for opportunities.
And we're -- they're in -- they're building relationships and there's nothing to grab onto to say "Here's something that we're going to do " yet.
But I think they're having good discussions.
And there are -- Craig has a good reputation and a lot of contacts that looks to be pretty opportunistic for us.
On the European side we also had numerous meetings and calls and it takes a long time to develop your relationship and then to move forward.
But we are also optimistic on something coming that way too.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd actually like to ask a follow-up on the Bury Street comments.
And just -- Chris could you maybe flesh that out a little bit more.
I'm just kind of curious -- I know it's just getting up and running the relationship but kind of which -- are there any particular products or distribution channels that they are really focusing on where they think they can really make some headway with your products? And just maybe what your own expectations are for contributions from that relationship over the -- in the next year or two.
I don't know if you think it'll be a noticeable or meaningful contributor to the sales events in '13? Put simply we expect billions.
And what they are selling primarily right now okay having just started an actual sale isn't on high yield.
Okay they are also presenting in addition to high-yield emerging market debt strategic value dividend and a core ag.
So those are the 4 usage products that they are presenting.
And we did this in order to jump-start our usage distribution in London and on the continent.
And we expect that we might be able to also hire new sales individuals on the institutional side with consultants et cetera to do some of that business direct and end up having a two-pronged attack that's well organized and not overlapping.
So that's kind of what we're expecting out of this.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe shifting to the other side of the world with Asia Pac.
It's come up you've mentioned it a couple of times and is it -- I'm just curious if the products that you're thinking about targeting there is it really pretty much the same products that you're looking at with -- in Europe? Same kind of list or...
Yes.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay nothing no new product developments specifically for the market? Well what's going on there in addition is that there's as Tom was describing there's a worthy search going on in both Australia and then throughout the Asia Pac region for operations or businesses that have both good investment management capabilities and some sort of distribution footprint.
And so I would expect that some acquisition on the Asia Pac side would involve new mandates that are being generated and managed locally in various jurisdictions.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe one last question just shifting back to the M&amp;A.
I mean understanding that in the U.S.
your primary focus has been the kind of the incremental kind of buying portfolios of kind of small mutual fund assets from banks and others.
But are -- when you look at your product set here and it's fairly full but are there any -- as the industry evolves are there any kind of product holes that you've started thinking about in regards to your existing domestic footprint and that maybe it would make more sense to fill through a acquisition versus internal development? Well there are product sets that we think we're working on but we've decided to do it more or less internally.
When you add a managed vol and a managed tail-risk product and you put them into insurance-type products when you create an unconstrained bond fund and go anywhere a balanced-type asset allocation-type funds and combine them with the Pru Bear and the Pru Dollar Bear Funds you have a pretty good gang of what the world would call alternatives.
And we have looked at whether to do that by acquisition many times and we just can't get convinced of the value proposition for the underlying clients and sometimes not even the repeatability of the performance.
So we've taken those ideas put them into various mutual fund components managed by various of the teams that we have going here but we package them and refer to them as 2 pods of one is alternative and one is our asset allocation that address this need.
So that's how we've approached what we saw as a need in the product array.
The next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a flow question to start.
Just to clarify [Audio Gap] for account flows in April.
It sounded like equity asset inflows were negative due to a change in allocation away from MDT you said and then fixed income separate account flows were also negative due to a change in allocation.
So I guess is that -- are either of these something that you could see recurring? Is there -- on the fixed income side which strategy is that? And on MDT maybe if you give us a sense of how large the assets are for SMA and could there be more allocations? Is there anything particular about now? Cynthia it's Ray.
Just to clarify the color we made on the equity SMA is correct on MDT.
What actually happened was the manager model changed.
They reduced the number of managers on their platform and that resulted in the MDT strategy change.
The MDT assets are about $2.2 billion and about 1/2 of that would be SMA.
The performance there has really rebounded quite strongly.
All 7 of their strategies are ahead from inception.
And a number of them the majority of them are ahead on 1 and 3 years as well.
And so we don't know of any other changes in the pipeline for that strategy.
And as I said the performance has been quite good of late.
On the fixed income side the comment was not on separate accounts in terms of quarter to date.
The comment was on the mutual fund flows being slightly negative and that's really a function of an Ultrashort product we think that would have similar characteristics to the money markets in terms of its utilization for things like tax payments.
So within the fixed income we're -- we have a number of strategies that are doing well from a flow standpoint.
I would highlight the high-yield in particular and then we have other positive ones there.
Capital preservation short-duration product would be the next one that comes to mind.
Research Division</strong> Okay sorry about that.
So within fixed income separate accounts then you're positive in April? Well we don't measure the -- we don't measure fixed -- we don't measure the larger separate accounts until the end of the quarter.
We don't have the same kind of flow reporting there.
We do for SMAs because they're more of a retail-like product and that's why we're able to make the equity SMA comment.
We do have a fixed income SMA business but it's much much smaller than the equity business and it actually has positive flows quarter-to-date.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
So I'll just think more about your pipeline that you mentioned the $400 million on -- for the fixed income side.
So...
Well yes.
And the $400 million -- on the $400 million Chris talked about the $200 million State of Delaware.
That's clearly fixed income.
The other $200 million of other institutional accounts is actually about 3/4 equity.
It's about $150 million equity and $50 million fixed.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And then maybe one other clarification.
Tom I thought you said -- did you give guidance for comp in 2Q of $69 million? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last quarter I think guidance was also $69 million right? But it came in lower.
Was there anything particularly that was...
Yes we overaccrued by $3 million.
So we had a reversal in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you're thinking it goes back to $69 million.
Okay.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one big-picture question which is just coming back to the question of some of the alternatives to money funds that you mentioned like ETFs enhanced cash some of the firms we see are announcing this or that innovation.
If you step back and look at the industry in the last few years there's been growing concentration in money market products.
And I'm just wondering if you think maybe we're going to see kind of a wave of innovation which could reverse some of the concentration and institutional clients could begin dispersing their cash around a lot of different products a lot of different firms.
I don't see that.
I see more the impact of the regulatory environment that we live in as the continuing the oligopolization of the business.
Perhaps that's not its intent but that's certainly its effect.
It's very difficult to start off brand-new products especially on the cash management side when what the customer wants is daily liquidity at par and you need a bigger bunch of assets in order to make that viable.
And so I just don't see that.
More likely depending on what the proposal is it will follow the line of a bunch of money moving into govies if they trash prime and moving into large bank deposits for the rest of the money.
That will be the main show.
Then all these other products that could come up will take their place in line but it'll be well behind.
And I just don't see the underlying business efficacy of all new businesses for new type cash management products which don't do what people want and require a lot more of assets than are available.
The next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
This is actually Neil filling in for Bill.
My first question is you did mention the pickup in RFP activity year-over-year.
How would you characterize the incremental activity between equities and fixed income? Neil it's Ray.
I would say that in Q1 equity was consistent with the trend that we saw in 2012.
Fixed income would be running at a higher pace and slightly higher than the rate we saw in 2012.
The interesting thing aside from that is the variety of strategies that we're -- that we have RFP interest in.
So on the equity side in particular the international Strategic Value Dividend strategy has generated good RFP activity but we've also had Kaufmann Large the Clover Small Value and in fact MDT Small Cap which has had some wins and had positive flows on the funds side.
Within fixed income it's weighted towards short-duration but high-yield continues to be very strong emerging market debt and core broad.
Okay.
And then my second question is you mentioned a step-up in cost inflows in 1Q.
Was that continuing so far in 2Q? All else equal how would you see that impacting the fee realization? Well the cost in step-up is in particular on the Large Cap Fund.
And that fund is about a little over $500 million against an equity fund base of $24 billion north of $24 billion.
So on the margin it would be positive but I wouldn't expect a measurable change on our overall fee rate because of the success of that particular product.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's Eric Berg here with Bulent Ozcan.
We have questions regarding the money fund business and in particular sort of your sense of expectations among customers and also questions around the needs of customers from money funds.
My first question is this: while you talk about how customers expect daily liquidity at $1 NAV at $1 isn't it quite possible that if we had this money market fund perform say go to a floating NAV that corporate customers understand that the underlying assets in a money fund carry risk to them that there's always been risk? And that their expectations really -- they like -- isn't it possible that they like NAV at $1 but that they've never really expected it because they know there is risk in the funds? Well with respect to corporate treasurers they do know there is risk in the funds.
And if reserve fund accomplished anything it underscored that and made it an absolute certainty but they know anyway.
The reason the corporate treasurers like the money funds is because of ease of operation.
It is because it is first and foremost a cash management system.
So when a corporate treasurer decides to use the money fund for their salary payments and things like that they know exactly what to put in and they know exactly what it's going to be coming out.
They don't have to put in extra money for reserves or things like that and it works very very efficiency -- efficiently.
They don't have to hire extra clerks like they used to have to do in the old days to buy T-bills and roll them over.
And so it is a very very efficient system.
They've also designed their systems to be able to accommodate the $1 net asset value.
Now everybody says "Okay fine.
You can change any system." I guess that's true but that comes with a lot of cost and consternation as well.
And so yes they have consistently -- on survey after survey I indicated that they strongly prefer the use of the money fund.
And when you look at the pricing of that when they could've gotten in a Ultrashort fund a hundred basis points more in yield and they still remain with the money market fund it tells you that it is very very serious item for them.
The Ultrashort funds are what $100 billion against $2.5 trillion? And so the evidence on surveys on use and then on the practical aspects of a corporate treasurer's life are really overwhelming in favor of the $1 NAV.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then our second and related question relates to just what is required.
We've heard that there were many -- and the ultimate question is is this true that there were many professional money managers particularly in the public sector that have to have NAV of $1? Is that true that there are municipalities states so forth that if NAV were floating in certain circumstances they would be required to take their money out or -- is that the case? Yes that is exactly the case.
And it happens in a number of ways.
The first way is under state law.
I think it's now all 50 states have state laws that have declared certain types of money market funds to be the functional equivalent of the underlying investments so long as it's in a money fund that pays $1 or that's $1 in [Audio Gap] So there are trust indentures that are operated under those laws there are trust accounts operating under those laws and they would all have to leave.
The next area where it happens is under the individual trust instrument or in under the individual trust arrangement due to beneficiaries or due to what the donors have intended that cash had to be invested in cash and couldn't take a gain or a loss position.
And so that would be another gang.
And there's yet a third one that's a little further than what you're getting at but when you have these omnibus systems that go in dollar in dollar out it is impossible for them to function unless you have the dollar in dollar out because they are giving us net positions for underlying accounts that could number in the thousands.
But there are large number of our accounts that would have to quit the money fund if it had a variable NAV for legal reasons.
There would also be others who would quit because of technical reasons efficiency reasons and computer systems reasons but a large component of them would quit because of the state law provisions.
The next question comes from the line of Patrick Devitt with Autonomous Research.
I'm curious if floating NAV was enacted on solely prime funds do you get the sense that that money would just move to the govies or not? And why? As I said I think twice already on this call that I think that there would be some movement to govies.
How much? I just can't say.
I just don't know.
But there would be a good bit.
And I think the other place people would move would be into deposits at primarily the largest banks.
So those would be the first 2 beneficiaries if they simply throw prime funds under the bus.
But as you know we are not in favor of that and don't think that that's a very logical or proper thing to do in the marketplace nor is it justified.
Okay.
I mean I think that there is a presumption there that that's where the SEC is going and the FSOC is going though right? Or is that not your understanding? Well everybody has their own opinion about it.
And somehow it's interesting that everybody's opinion seems to follow their own book including me.
Okay so we have $100 billion of prime funds and so we are a big player.
And we tend to argue strenuously for our clients for the issuers and for the efficacy of these funds.
Others who may have only a little bit of prime fund are happy to throw them under the bus and others who have a different clientele that they may want to approach want to approach the other clientele.
So yes everyone's talking their book.
Now what these proposals will be I don't think anybody knows.
We have been told for years that this proposal or that proposal was going to come out and is going to come out at this time and that isn't exactly what happened.
At the FSOC meeting yesterday they said well if the SEC comes out with meaningful proposals then they will demur because they have acknowledged the importance and the legitimacy of SEC regulation here because they have done an excellent job the SEC and are very knowledgeable about money market funds.
And that's what convinces me that good policy will win out and that the resiliency of money funds will govern the outcome of any proposal or any proposal that then turns into a rule.
The next question comes from the line of Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Tom Whitehead filling in for Matt.
Just a quick question on fee rates.
Have you guys seen a change in fee rates in the last quarter? I'd say even looking at the last year if you back out the money fund fee waivers fee rates look like they ticked down a little bit.
So any comments you have on that would be great.
Well as you point out Tom the money fund fee waivers really are the primary thing that have affected fee rates.
And that was the primary driver of the decrease and the first quarter change.
To a lesser extent the equity fee rate ticked down a little bit and that would've been driven by the gains on the separate account side where the fees are a bit lower.
But that's really apropos of Q1.
I would say the same trends were in play looking back over the last year.
The next question is coming from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first for Debbie.
Overnight rates have fallen off most recently looking at repo rates.
What's driving the recent declines? And how do you kind of see your outlook for short-term rates over the next couple of quarters? Sure.
They -- if you looked at overnight rates during the second half of 2012 they averaged in the low 20s 22 23 basis points.
In the first quarter we were a little bit pleasantly surprised that they did not fall down into the high single digits.
They were instead right around 15 16 basis points.
They've subsequently now in the month of April for the last 1.5 weeks been fairly volatile in that single digit -- high single-digit to mid double-digit range.
We do believe that the April timeframe is reflective of a large amount of tax payments being received and a lack of a need for funding if you will because of that in the second half of the month of April.
We do expect that to rebound a little bit in the -- at the end of the month when there are some issuance of -- expected issuance of treasury securities that will be put back into the marketplace.
Our outlook depends to some degree on what we think will happen from a QE perspective.
Right now we all know that the QE buyback program by the Fed on a monthly basis is about $85 billion.
Our expectation is with a little bit better pace in the economy from the U.S.
perspective at least that that buying program will taper off to some degree or be modified in the second half of 2013 which in our minds will put a little bit more collateral out there for the financing side of the equation and keep a floor under the repo rates of again back in that mid-teens area.
Probably not back up to the high end of the 0 to 25 basis point range that has obviously been in place for many years now but better than the high single digits which was sort of the low end of expectations.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe Chris Federated had done -- had gained meaningful market share since the financial crisis.
The percentage has really increased quite a bit.
But over the last year or so it seems as though Federated has been giving back share.
It looks like a little less than 50 basis points has been given back and you mentioned in the latest quarter it declined a little bit more.
What's happening there? Is there anything that you can point to? Is it just mix and distribution? Your focus is a little bit different than some of the others.
Is competition getting a little bit more active on the pricing side? Is there a reason or is it just kind of noise? I would view it as the latter.
When you look at the total picture from a 5% market share in 2000 to 7% in 2007 and 8.5% as we concluded '08 and 8.7% in 2010 9.4% in June of 2012 then it got to 9.5% and so then at the end of 2012 we were 9.6% and now we're at 9.2%.
Okay.
To me this is just the ebb and flow of natural moving money.
We don't see any particular aspect of this business that is -- been under fire or isn't performing or where competition is taking more.
We generally have a large component of taxpayers in our mix and maybe that is a little bit of what's going on here.
But I just wouldn't make too much of the move from 9.6% at the end of the year to the 9.2% right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally in a world that's -- that transitions to floating NAVs does price competition for treasury funds start to increase? My thought is there's a lot of money moving around.
Treasury funds government funds are more commoditized than a prime fund which has a much bigger credit component to it.
Do you think the competition will start to use price as a way to kind of gain share given what probably is a lot of potential business moving around? It's very difficult to see price competition when the return i.e.
the price competition the effect of it is either 0 or 1.
And that's where these funds are.
And so it's just -- I just don't see how that materializes at least under the current rate environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does that mean it's 0 for 1 to -- for you as well or is that sort of more for the industry? Oh no no no.
We -- you're seeing gross yields of 9 -- okay whatever the repo rate is that you and Debbie were talking about would be the gross yield.
I'm talking about the net yield to the customer because when you talk about price competition you have to be talking about what the experience is to the investor.
And so right now all of those funds -- anyone who's offering them are either 0 or 1.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any concluding remarks.
Well thank you for joining us today.
That concludes our remarks and we appreciate your time.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a beautiful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors' Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ray Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Mr.
Hanley you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter results conference call.
And today leading the call will be Chris Donahue Federated CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer; and we also have Debbie Cunningham joining us for some remarks on the money market condition.
Let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements.
And we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning.
I'll begin today with a brief review of Federated's business performance and Tom will then comment on our financial results.
Looking first at cash management.
Average money market fund assets were down $13 billion from Q1 and period end money fund assets decreased by $10 billion.
The decrease included seasonal effects of tax payments and decreases by certain institutional investors against the backdrop of declining rates and yields over the quarter.
Debbie will comment later on on market conditions and our outlook for rates.
Our market share for money funds decreased slightly in Q2 to approximately 9% from 9.2%.
For historical purposes recall that in '08 our share was about 8.5% and back in 2000 it was about 5%.
The impact of yield-related fee waivers increased in the second quarter.
Repo rates have been at very low level since mid-May which of course impacts the waivers.
And Tom will comment on this in his remarks.
On the regulatory front the SEC issued its 700-page money market fund reform proposal for public comment last month.
We commend the SEC for taking a thorough and thoughtful approach proper to preserving their jurisdiction for money market funds.
We're working on a series of comment letters to address various aspects of the proposal.
The main points of the proposal have been extensively reported so I won't go through them.
Our initial reaction to the proposal is that parts of this are workable like gating and would improve money funds and other parts are unworkable like floating the NAV and unnecessarily detrimental to money funds with negative implications for investors issuers and the financial market.
Our core beliefs remained consistent.
We continue to advocate for sound policy that enhances the resiliency of money funds for our clients who fully understand that money funds like other investments have elements of risk.
They are not interested in radical costly and unnecessary change like floating the NAV.
The floating NAV would create market inefficiencies without providing meaningful benefits.
In particular as both the Fed and the SEC has acknowledged the floating NAV would not eliminate the idea of runs.
We know that many institutional money fund users have gone on record to make it known that they cannot or will not use any floating NAV money funds due to a host of legal and/or investment policy restrictions operational complexity and tax burdens.
Tax issues remain unsolved and significant.
The cost with that systems to accommodate the floating NAV would be enormous.
These and other issues will cause many users to move from the product if subjected to a floating NAV.
We believe that some of these money fund users will migrate from institutional funds to government agency money funds creating dislocation in that part of the market.
Others will increase deposits in banks in particular among the largest banks making them even bigger.
So others will look to separate accounts offshore products and other less regulated and less visible alternatives.
This process is unnecessary and will be very disruptive to investors and to the financial system.
The cost will be significant and real.
And the benefits will be minimal if any.
The impact of the floating NAV were it ultimately to be enacted on the money fund asset levels of our clients is difficult to assess.
We are hopeful that a significant portion of our current $97 billion in prime money fund assets would be properly classified as retail under the proposal's definition recognizing that the implementation of a retail exemption could be operationally difficult and involves added complexity because a large portion of our assets are held in omnibus accounts.
In contrast with the floating NAV gating that is giving the fund's Board of Directors the option of a gate on redemption in extremely rare periods of a dysfunctional market as experienced by money funds and other participants in '08 promotes the equal treatment of investors and improves financial markets by potentially stopping a run dead in its track.
It has proven to be effective in practice avoids costly and unnecessary disruption and most importantly preserves the critical features and benefits of money funds for investors issuers and the capital markets.
Following the meaningful reforms enacted by the SEC in 2010 and voluntary efforts by major industry participants which continue today to further increase transparency by publishing daily shadow price NAV money funds are among the safest and most transparent investment products.
And will be further enhanced by adding the gating option.
Radical change like floating the NAV will unnecessarily cause the demise of the institutional prime money market funds a high-quality product that enhances our financial system on many levels.
Let's turn to equities.
Flows for equity mutual funds and separate accounts were positive for the second quarter with solid results in a number of products.
Combined Q2 net sales of equity funds and separate accounts was $383 million.
Gross equity fund sales in the second quarter were a little over $1.9 billion.
One of our best quarterly totals ever and net fund flows turned solidly positive.
Our equity product line is very strong with solid performance across a variety of products.
We had 13 funds produced net positive sales in the second quarter.
Some familiar faces: Strategic Value Dividend Capital Income International Strategic Value Kaufmann Large Muni Stock Advantage Clover Small Managed Vol International Leaders and others.
Inflows were led by the Strategic Value Dividend Strategy to domestic and international I mentioned.
We also saw solid increase in the sales of our Capital Income balance allocation fund.
This fund is a very strong investment performance record and has gained sales momentum over the last several quarters.
Another highlight is the Kaufmann Large Cap Fund where sales have also increased substantially over the last couple of quarters.
This fund is nearing $700 million in assets up from $370 million at year end with very strong performance over the 1 3 and 5-year timeframes this fund is positioned for substantial growth.
Other fund strategies with net flows I have already mentioned.
As we mentioned in April our second quarter flows in equity separate accounts were negatively impacted by model changes for 2 of the MDT fundamental quant strategies.
And this added up to a couple of hundred million dollars in All Cap Core and Small Cap Core when combined.
Our MDT strategies continue however to generate very solid investment results in the second quarter.
All 7 managed account strategies outperformed the benchmark for the second quarter and the trailing 1- and 3-year periods all 7 are ahead of benchmark since inception.
We have begun to see heightened RFP interest in the MDT strategies.
A comment on early Q3 flows.
Actively managed equity flows are solidly positive a hair under $60 million led by domestic and international strategic value dividend strategy's Kaufmann Large Capital Income Fund.
Equity asset inflows are also positive here in the early -- in the third quarter.
In our equity index funds we had a client redeem $220 million from the mid-cap index fund which uses an enhanced indexing strategy and they did this due to a change in the investment process they made last year.
As a result our combined equity and SMA flows are slightly negative.
Looking at equity performance at the end of the second quarter.
We had 12 equity strategies in a variety of styles with top quartile 3-year records and 8 in the top quartile for 1 year.
Turning now to fixed income.
Federated and the industry experienced the rapid reversal in investor sentiment for bond funds in the second quarter.
After generating slightly positive bonds on close in April and May we saw net redemptions of about $1.7 billion in June.
July is much calmer.
Our bond fund flows are slightly negative for the first 3 weeks of the quarter.
In June investors moved out of bond funds of nearly all types including corporates Govies mortgage-backed multi sector Munis and international.
High-yield funds remained positive though at a diminished rate.
We also saw enclosed into our Floating Rate funds which is building some momentum and into other short-duration products as a reaction to higher rates on the longer part of the curve.
While the industry as a whole experienced significantly higher bond fund redemptions in June our results were particularly impacted by a change made by one of our intermediary clients which led to an $800 million redemption from our Total Return Bond Fund.
This fund has been just about or just below its category median on a 1- 3- and 5-year basis and yet its top quartile on a 10-year basis.
This fund has had a retirement-based portfolio manager change in mid-April.
Its performance since then has been improving.
The fund's pure ranking in the second quarter was in the top half and the fund is in the top quartile for the first 3 weeks of the third quarter.
At quarter end we had 10 Fixed Income strategies with top quartile 3-year records and 12 strategies in the top quartile on a 1-year basis.
Our 3-year performance stars include Fed Bonds Fund our High Yield products emerging market debt products and Ultrashort Bond Funds among others.
Fixed Income separate accounts were slightly negative.
New fundings were offset by a sizable redemption from a client as a result of their company being purchased and by series of smaller redemptions due to reallocations and use of cash.
The disruption in the fixed income markets was a factor in some of these redemptions.
Turning to overall fund performance and looking at Morningstar-rated funds 53% of rated equity fund assets are in 4- and 5-star products as of quarter end.
And 79% are in 3- 4- and 5-star products.
For Bond Funds the comparable percentages are 45% 4- and 5-star and 85% 3- 4- and 5-star.
As of July 24 managed assets were approximately $364 billion including $267 billion in money markets $40 billion in equities $57 billion in fixed income which includes the liquidation portfolio.
Included in these figures of course money market mutual fund assets stand at about $233 billion.
And so far in July our money market fund assets have ranged between $231 billion and $236 billion averaging where they stand at $233 billion.
Looking at distribution.
Equity fund to grow sales grew by 9% in the second quarter compared to quarter 1 and increased 25% compared to quarter 2 of 2012.
We saw the strongest absolute growth in the broker/dealer channel where we continue to leverage our investment in additional distribution capacity.
We are steadily expanding the number of advisers doing business with us and growing the product set used by these advisers.
But we are also considering further modest growth in sales personnel in this channel as the year proceeds.
Interestingly the number of advisers doing business with us is approximately 39 000 up from 36 000 in '11 and 29 000 in '08.
In the institutional channel at quarter end we had about $600 million in equity and Fixed income account additions expected by year end.
Roughly $325 million in equities and $275 million in Fixed Income.
Turning to our offshore business and acquisitions.
We continue to develop our Asia Pac operation based in Australia.
We're in the process of adding our first sales personnel with the position planned to be Head of Sales in Hong Kong and another in Singapore.
In Europe we had our first trades booked in Q2 from our expanded distribution efforts with Bury Street.
We are making progress in Germany with the LVM family of funds which had positive flows during the quarter.
We continue to actively seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Asia in Europe as well as in the United States.
Now I will turn over to Tom to discuss our financials.
Thank you Chris.
Taking a look first at money fund fee waivers.
The impact of pretax income in Q2 was $23.7 million up from $21.7 million in the prior quarter.
The increase was due mainly to lower rates for treasury and mortgage-related securities.
Based on current assets and assuming overnight repo rates for treasuries and agency securities run at 3 to 8 basis points over the quarter the impact of minimum yield waivers to pretax income in Q3 could increase to $28 million.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 45% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
It is important to note that the variables impacting waivers can and do change frequently.
Revenues in Q2 decreased 2% from the prior quarter due largely to minimum yield waivers and lower average money fund assets partially offset by an extra day and by higher average assets for equities.
Operating expenses decreased from Q1 due largely to lower distribution expense due to higher minimum yield waivers.
Comp and related was up from Q1 which included a reversal of $3 million of incentive compensation expense that was accrued in 2012 but not paid.
Q2 comp and related has been estimated to be $69 million came in at $67.9 million as incentive comp was less than expected.
The Q2 effective tax rate was 37.4%.
Most of the increase from Q1 was due to increased state taxes resulting from a tax law change during the quarter.
We estimate the effective going forward rate to be around 38%.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Cash and investments totaled $303 million at quarter end of which about $231 million is cash available to us.
Our net debt was below $75 million.
We announced the 4% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.25.
Based on the performance and financial strength of Federated it is appropriate to further reward shareholders with the first increase in our quarterly dividend since 2008.
Looking forward cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flows from operations and availability under present debt facilities provide us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisitions acquisition opportunities and related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new product seeds and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayments.
[Audio Gap] That completes my part of the presentation and I'd like to ask Debbie Cunningham to make a few comments on money market.
Debbie? Thanks Tom.
Just giving you some guidance from an outlook perspective about the third quarter and where we stand from a rate perspective.
[Audio Gap] versus the second quarter.
Right now we are currently on a 1-month LIBOR basis right around 19 basis points.
For most of the second quarter we were at 20 so down slightly [Audio Gap] basis point similar for 3-months LIBOR currently right around 27 basis points.
From the second quarter it was right around 28.
6- and 12-months LIBOR are up a little bit more 3 basis points lower from a 6-month LIBOR perspective and 4 basis points lower from a 12-month LIBOR standpoint.
Ultimately giving us a flatter yield curve currently than what we have been dealing with in the first half of the year.
Also detrimental so far in the third quarter as it is the second has been the overnight rate seasonal rates basically single digits and most single digits have been prevalent in the third quarter so far as opposed to what were higher single digits to lower double digits for a portion of the second quarter.
Our expectation would be however that this improved for a couple different reasons in the third quarter as we enter into the mid-August timeframe.
Number one would be from a supply and demand perspective we expect that the Treasury will need some additional financing and we'll do so in the form of cash management though which will essentially bring a little more supply into the marketplace and as such improve rates in that process.
Secondly with regard to quantitative leasing the $85 billion that is currently being purchased on a monthly basis by the New York Fed out of the marketplace in both Treasury and agency and agency mortgage-backed securities we do believe will be announced to be cut back or tapered in the context of the market terminology beginning at the September FOMC meeting.
We think that will be done sequentially probably somewhere in the neighborhood of $15 billion to $20 billion cutbacks from us.
But again that additional supply in back in the marketplace as opposed to being held on the support of the New York Fed that should really improve their process for a very short-term and overnight rate.
We also think that although Bernanke has been very stressful in telling us that the tapering of quantitative easing is still in an easing process it's just less than the formal easing.
We do think that the market will interpret that to some degree and as a beginning of an ongoing process which ultimately should have an impact that can even out the deal curve again into the second half or the end of 2013 beginning of 2014.
Thank you Debbie and we'd like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Bill Katz from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] A ton of question for you.
You mentioned that fee rate were in the single digit-basis-point here would be about $28 million.
How sensitive is it to Debbie's forecast to the extent that rates would move up into August how quickly could that reset? And then before that question is prepositive short [indiscernible] rates are actually higher from here and the $28 million were to go away hard to do believe right now but could you we envision that that would drop to the bottom line? Or is there some back-up investments that are needed against that? Okay the first part Will we have -- we're basically using Debbie's forecast for this quarter.
So while we're saying 3 days the first part of the quarter and the end part of the quarter that's what we're averaging.
So $28 million is our forecast.
The second part do we expect that to fall to the bottom line if it goes away? Is that what your question was? Research Division</strong> Yes.
If rates go up do we expect that fall to the bottom line? So of course we have the distribution expenses that when our revenues go up our distribution expenses will go up.
And other than that we'd have slight changes to our -- depending on how much it went away would have slight changes to incentive comp as overall if the company does better we face a little bit higher incentive comp.
But fundamentally the major portion of it would go to the bottom line.
And Bill on the other thing you mentioned there is no backed-up investments spend? Research Division</strong> Okay and the second question is Chris as you've gone through this SEC document it's a bit luminous.
Any sense on the timeline when we might start to get any further public comments or any extension just given now the IRS will sort of comment with their own proposals on that rule as well? On the timeline Bill overall as it's currently listed that the comment period will go until about September 17.
That of course could be extended.
There have already been I think 60 or 70 comments filed.
We expect there will be thousands of comments filed.
And as I mentioned we are working on various topics to file comments.
The SEC on the timeline will have to go through those comments and spend a bunch of time on that.
And we would expect therefore it would be very very difficult for them to conclude anything before the turn of the calendar to 2014.
So I don't expect the SEC to make intervening comments regardless of what the IRS has done on the Wash-Sale rules.
And although the Wash-Sale rule thing is nice if they -- as I mentioned in my comments if they persist with their notion of the variable NAV that hasn't solved the problem because the problem has to do with the compiling of capital gains and losses of miniscule amounts on every money market fund trade and the information we have from before was that that would be requiring a statutory move on the IRS which has to do with congress tax law and things like that which would be highly problematic.
And I don't have a timeline for that.
The only thing I would add to that was in the context of the proposals as they stand today alternative one should it be enacted which would be the floating NAV for institutional funds which we don't take lightly but if it were to be enacted that would be at least a 2-year timeframe from an implementation perspective.
Alternative 2 which will be the gating and seed idea which is one that we are supportive of that would be 1-year transition time period and then the other ideas that they have put forward on a proposal basis to strengthen some of the other types of diversification fresh taxing and the merger requirements would be somewhere in the neighborhood of about 9 months.
Research Division</strong> And so just last one for me inside the money markets today.
You mentioned that the vast majority of your institutional prime might [indiscernible] to this retail designation.
How comfortable are you with that notion now that you've been to the document relative to maybe some of the nuances of the categorizations? Okay let's tear into the numbers a little bit Bill and you'll see how we get to where we come out.
So we're right now we're at $97 billion in Prime $12 billion of that is from offshore products okay? So that's not subject to the SEC so that's over on the side.
Another $5 billion is our leftover historical direct retail along with our internal use of Prime funds where one fund is used in another fund.
So that's not an issue.
Then we have $25 billion of the $97 billion that comes from broker/dealer sweep accounts where usually the underlying customers tend to be retail as defined.
And retail as defined currently in the proposal is they don't want to receive -- redeem more than $1 million a day.
And so we think that that would probably be okay.
Then we have $8 billion that comes from our institutional cash market which tends to be large corporate customers who could not meet $1 million day-type redemption.
Okay.
So then we have 2 other categories.
We have $32 billion in Trust and Wealth Management which is our bank trust business is basically.
And another $15 billion in our capital markets.
So this $47 billion all these clients more or less have come in through omnibus accounts and they are very difficult to characterize.
We do know from incidental comments with some clients who are on their own going to comment in this success and some of them is the $1 million isn't going to work for them and others say that most of the time it works but sometimes it doesn't.
And so they might be thinking about different numbers.
So it's very difficult for us to characterize that $47 billion because we don't see behind the curtain as to what their redemption profile is.
The next question is coming from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First question.
Just in terms of the institutional channel.
Curious if you're seeing any signs of maybe some shifts in allocation trends or pickup in rebalancing? And then related to that can you just give us an update on the pipeline and where you stand maybe versus last quarter? Sure Michael.
On the institutional side we have certainly seen a step-up in the equity activity.
And so from an RFP standpoint we had more than twice as many in the second quarter than we did in the first quarter.
And it would be running at about a 50% higher rate based on Q2 than what we saw a year ago.
So we're certainly seeing heightened interest in equities in a variety of strategies.
The Clover we mentioned the Clover small cap.
We did mention our $600 million yet to be funded which is about $325 million of equity and a big piece of that is in the Clover Small cap value area.
That continues to show up in a lot of RFPs.
The Strategic Value Dividend Strategy is probably the next one I've mentioned.
And then some interest in our tail risk and managed volatility type of strategies.
And we mentioned MDT.
We're getting several RFP requests and the performance there has been outstanding.
So we have seen a shift to equities in the institutional channel both from an RFP standpoint and from a pipeline standpoint.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe can you give us an update on what you're seeing in the M&amp;A markets in terms of opportunities competition pricing trends what have you particularly in light of sort of the recent step-up in market volatility? Uptick in market volatility never really seems to be a big factor with us Michael.
The people who we're trying to do transactions with have to fit in with us culturally.
And on the sites where we're getting centers of excellence we're interested in the people staying here and having a long-term view.
So they aren't usually going by drawn or controlled by something happening in the marketplace and there's more volatility here or there.
On the roll-ups that does work only when it's time to get out of the business and if you do see some uptick in volatility there.
But on the -- I'd say we have more activity going on as we focused on the Asia Pac and in Europe and we've got lots of meetings and it's taking us significant amount of time to develop relationships over there spending time.
And actually with our team in Australia people down there with Craig Bingham and his contacts we're developing and starting to have some pretty decent discussions.
And the same thing in Europe we've met people for 2 to 3 years now and are -- and can see our way to having pretty decent discussions.
And that's what I have to say about that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just one more for you Tom.
In terms of the adjustment and the bonus accrual in the second quarter can you quantify that? And then any color in terms of how you're thinking about your comp line as you look out to the back half of the year? Yes we thought we were going to have 69 and we basically had 68.
So if you -- the way the bonuses work we have to accrue what we think it's going to be for the full year.
So that if we were about $1 million off that means that we had since it's half year it means we had $2 million less for the whole year than we thought we were going to have.
And in terms of our run rate into the future it's -- for the next quarter we would expect it to be in the $68 million range.
Our next question is coming from Robert Lee from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I got on a little late so maybe you did touch on this.
But can you maybe just -- I think Chris you have mentioned -- well you did mention this.
You talked about the outflows from the I guess lower return [ph] products and you're changing management.
Should we be expecting that with the change due to retirement that there -- are you aware that there could be some other flows related -- outflows related to that? Or you're not concerned about that at this point? Well at this point we're not aware of any other big lumps like that coming out.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe looking at -- and this goes for both the fixed income and the equity business on the funds side.
I mean you guys have always kind of run with higher redemption rates particularly both for those product lines at least positive for the industry.
And I understand that's somewhat driven by distribution and probably a decent portion of short duration products.
But as you look out is there anything -- is there anything as you think about just kind of running the business that you think could cause that to demonstrate via -- I'm thinking about this over time.
The kind of moderate maybe shifting the distribution patterns or anything related to the shifting product mix? Does it require you kind of produce a lot of growth sales every quarter just to kind of stay in place? Well there is a lot of Red Queen involved in the mutual fund industry in general and in this product in particular as you have noted.
By Red Queen I mean you have to run twice as fast just to stay in one place.
And what we've seen even with the turnover that occurred in June from what was going on in April and May there's still a lot of interest in these types of products as standard issues inside our client base.
So even though it was on top of the pipe on the chart so to speak you're getting increased volatility.
The core demand for the product remains strong.
And Don Allen Bergeder [ph] and his team have done an excellent job in these kinds of circumstances.
And the watch word that this fund has had with its clients has been consistency over time.
And that's why I mentioned the 10-year record because that's what this fund is all about.
So with that I don't think we're going to see the kinds of fundamental changes that you're talking about.
Ray? Rob to your point on the fixed income side I think you would look at the shorter duration products which are a significant part of our product set.
And so we would have higher than industry redemptions there.
However on the equity side I think our redemption rate this quarter if you annualize it would be something in the 24% range I think.
And I think that's probably a bit more consistent with the industry.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one last question.
I'm just curious.
As you look to broaden -- expand in the Asia Pac can you maybe update us on just what do you kind of think of as your kind of lead strategy that hope you kind of get in maybe just a bit on the running and probably gain some new traction quicker if there's a couple of specific ones and maybe even some new ones you have there designed specifically for that market? It has to be answered in 2 parts Rob.
One is as Tom mentioned that we're having some discussions and interesting things and have done some [indiscernible] that there -- that one of the things we have in mind is doing acquisition of some investment managers that already have product out there.
So that would be one thing.
And I'm not going to characterize it because then that gets you too close to who we might be talking to.
Then internally what we have looked at is our high-yield our Total Return Bond Fund our emerging market debt as kind of the triumvirate of lead type products.
And there are couple of others that we think would work as well.
Yes I would throw in to that the dividend strategy the Strategic Value Dividend as one that we've had some indications of interest in as we've done our due diligence in those areas.
Our next question is coming from Cynthia Mayer from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So maybe just circling back to the math that you were doing on the money market funds which might qualify for retail and which might not.
It sounds like you think you have $8 billion that's definitely institutional $47 billion which is hard to characterize.
So of that call it $55 billion have you surveyed the clients? Do you have a sense of what proportion of those would leave if the NAV floats? What proportion would leave if there are gates? And also is there -- of the money that might leave is there any offset in expenses? We have not done that as of yet.
And it is very difficult to do.
There are others outside firms that are working on doing those kinds of things exactly as part of the comment process.
Incidentally when you're talking to people you find out that they go through the list of things that we mentioned -- that I mentioned in my remarks.
They'll look at govie funds.
They will look at bank deposits primarily the 2 big retail [ph] banks.
And some will be willing to look at other types of things separate accounts individual separate accounts if they are really big team separate accounts on private-type offerings.
And maybe even some of them can squish money offshore.
So I really can't give you a chapter and verse like I would like to on where that money could possibly end up because we haven't asked them exactly where they think they would go.
And Cynthia on the expenses the simple thing is that the revenue would go away like you're talking about and the distribution expense would go away.
So a lot of the big dollar expenses are answered.
And then we would have to go through and say if we get that money in the other places like Chris mentioned possibility and see what effect it would have on our margin and how we wanted to manage it for growth and for investments just like you would expect we would do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
First off that's truly institutional.
Is there much in distribution expense? [ph] It would be lower Cynthia than the retail.
If you look at in normal yield environments where we don't have the extremely low rates like we have now the distribution expense is effectively about half of the money market revenue but that varies across the channel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so if a lot of money goes into government money market funds could that potentially push the yields negative? And can you just remind us of what your policy is when yields get negative or close to negative? I'll let Debbie discuss how much movement of money in the governments could go into -- cause them to go negative which I don't think would happen.
But nonetheless Debbie will handle that and then I'll to talk to you after that about the second part of your question.
Cynthia We haven't really feel about negative yields as much of a threat at this point even if there were a substantial movement of client assets out of prime assets from an industry perspective and into the govie side.
Having said that we're getting a little bit of positive momentum in the context of supply that we expect to be better from a performance perspective for the rest of the year.
And if we continue to chug along from an economic standpoint the improvements for that should continue to be pretty good.
We do think however that it is dislocating if you will in the context of too much filling in for the government space and driving yields closer towards that zero number.
Negative yield is something that although can be handled by the Treasury at this point it's not something that they feel is in the normal and sort of ordinary operating procedure.
And we would expect that even on certain instances where specialty bills or treasury security might trade negative for a short period of time in the secondary the expectation would be that Treasury would work very hard to make sure that in an auction there would be no such thing as yields which ultimately would be sort of the precedence that will be set from a market perspective.
And then in answer to the second part Cynthia in terms of what our attitude about negative yields in the funds would be.
If it is short-term type thing then it would be handled in an analysis related to waivers.
But if it is a long-term negative yield on the money fund then we soon discover the Federated Investors Inc.
is not a charity.
And that if the marketplace says that this kind of product is no longer viable then that's the result that the marketplace has cried for.
But we don't think that's what's going to happen.
So on the short term it would just fall into our regular waiver type analysis and we'd see what that meant to us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just on expenses it looks like apart from distribution which was lower due the waivers and systems there were a bunch of other small item -- expense items they all rose.
If you combine them it was like those expenses were up 2.4% versus the previous quarter -- comp travel advertising and others.
So is that seasonal? Or are there some expenses there which have to do with responding to regulatory stuff? Is that a new good run rate? You've captured -- with the way you phrased it is basically stuff happens.
We have increased the advertising a little bit.
And we do -- are going to expect some more expenses with the money market dealings.
And we're picking up a little bit in office and occupancy as we opened up our Australian office and things move up.
I don't know if I have a forecast on exactly the next quarter for the other expenses like you're looking for.
Maybe we could talk to you after the call.
I would say Cynthia that the travel season we've seen that kind of step-up from Q1 to Q2.
And so trending that over a longer-term would be the way to model that.
But we can certainly go through that.
Our next question is coming from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chris acknowledging that the municipal market is one of many many businesses in which you compete I nonetheless like to get your views on sort of what's happening right now? And by that I mean the following: Detroit broke: Chicago [indiscernible] ; Illinois in very bad shape; and many other examples.
A 2-part question: first what do you consider to be the threshold the most important issues that need to be resolved in the Detroit matter? And what would you consider to be for the municipal market in general given all these difficulties to be sort of the best case and worst case outcome? Just how could this story end either favorably or unfavorably? Let's first cleanse the table by saying that in none of these circumstances do we have any money market assets so that nobody gets the idea that because we're discussing this that somehow this has gotten into any of the money market funds because -- and this gets into the answer to your question the first thing is that these things are very slow trains coming down the track that every analyst who does his homework sees.
And that was especially true with New York.
It was true in Harrisburg in our home State of Pennsylvania.
It was true in Birmingham.
It is true in Illinois and the other instances that you mentioned.
It was also true in New York back in the day during those times.
So that is one thing that supports having a financial advisor and going to the advice routine when you're dealing with your municipal securities that it isn't just a buy and throw it into a bucket and then everything works out.
And so the way that we look at it is that this is an endorsement of the importance of doing real credit work and real analysis on the whole thing.
Now what are the most important issues? The most important issues are to stop the bleeding and get things reorganized.
And I don't know all of the facts about Detroit but I do know that they're spending and making promises a lot more than they can handle.
And one of the issues is the underlying efficacy of what a pension promise really is.
This will get way beyond the scope of an earnings call on Federated.
But at some point when these pension promises get made they're really made to save money today in order to burden the future.
And this kind of thought -- thinking doesn't always work out.
And how can it end? Well it ends in unfortunate ways for those whose pensions get cut because of the bankruptcy which is indeed most unfortunate.
And -- but because you see these trains coming down the track in a municipal area careful investment managers can work it out.
And all it does is tell you that yes this is a marketplace there's risk in this area and you have to be attentive to it.
So I don't look at it in any draconian terms because the marketplace is well informed on the numbers and on the trains that maybe coming down the track.
And by the way I'm not a muni manager.
-- the other thing that I would add to that -- this is Debbie -- is that in the sense of the possibility or the discussion about whether GO-type financing would be included in the bankruptcy filing.
This obviously wasn't the case.
I think that the discussion of that was not of a scare for the muni market to really go back and rethink in terms of what Chris was saying from a currency diligence and analysis perspective sort of why rated issuers even if GOs were put into subjectivity with regards to their contractual nature and the ability for tax collection for repayment when the subjectives are problematic.
But when you're talking about single-A issuers they would be and people would think a little bit to be more diligent on what I call the sort of the lower of the investment group products that would be out there from a municipality standpoint.
Certainly that can't be helped here from a treasury refinancing standpoint so we as well as others in muni marketplace will continue to work with the industry to making sure that in fact those prices -- the GO prices and the taxation behind those types of bond shares perspective are not compromised.
LLC Research Division</strong> That was really what my ultimate question was.
That was implicit in my question.
There wasn't enough -- I'll finish up really quickly.
But if it turns out that the very nature of general obligation bonds changes so that other courts rule that municipalities are not required to raise taxes in order to meet those obligations why wouldn't this affect all of the municipal issuers? Why would this be particularly harmful for the single-A marketplace? Well I think it would affect all municipal issuers but if would affect the higher -- highest rated ones last.
So certainly you're going to see a slide right down muni finance themselves not as cheap with U.S.
government but certainly not as expensive as corporations.
And I think that that would narrow in the refinance much more like of the corporation that doesn't have the kind of security bond behind it and than they do today.
Our next question is coming from Greggory Warren from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I just have a thought about the money market industry going forward.
It's easier to make a case for consolidation when there are proposals put on the table for capital buffers which will have made it a much more expensive business to run.
Based on where the proposals are now and based on kind of what the feedback you're hearing out in the industry do you think that there's going to be a larger level of consolidation going forward? And then I guess the question is are you guys interested in being a major participant in that? Or is your acquisition-related activity more going to be focused on the fixed income and equity side? We will answer the second question first.
We would be open to discussing with others who choose to get out of the money fund business at any time.
So we will be open to doing that.
And we have been doing that for many years okay.
On the idea of consolidation remember that I guess it was about in '07 there were over 200 people doing money market funds.
Today if you look at the list they list about 80 people doing money funds.
And I think the bottom 10 or 15 of those have 10 million or 20 million in it.
So you barely have 60 people 60 firms doing money market funds.
And if you look at the names of the firms you can very quickly decide well how many of those will actually be consolidation candidates and how money wouldn't.
And I think there are consolidation candidates there.
But there has already been a consolidation going on here or look at the other way an oligopolization of this business.
And that is encouraged each time you put on more rules regulations and challenges.
And so that will just continue.
Research Division</strong> Yes that was sort of the thinking I was going out there because you've seen a lot of consolidation just because of the impact of fee waivers and interest rates over the last 5 years.
But I was just curious if that was something that you guys will continue to focus on going forward? I mean I know it's a big piece of your business but looking at equity and then fixed income your higher-fee rates and the better contributors of top line going forward? Owner operators like revenues and business even if it may not be the best.
It would be best if we could just do acquisitions and equity that will help the ratios the PEs and all of that.
But if we think we can make a good trade on money funds we're happy to do it.
Our next question is coming from Roger Freeman from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just have one question.
I wanted to ask about another area of great development.
I'm curious on your thoughts on the Fed's Basel III rule proposals for the banking industry with this focus on leverage now and as currently proposed doesn't provide offsets for low risk of pretty tight assets and could reduce repo activity further.
And I'm just wondering if not about what impact that have on your business.
Maybe on one hand yields could be higher but on the other hand it can just reduce the total size of repo back funds? I'll let Debbie address that directly and then I have a comment that's slightly related to that when Deb concludes.
Certainly when you look at the impacts of banking industry reform and Basel III in particular there are implications most clearly felt from a repo market standpoint at least as far as money markets are concerned.
We've been going through some gut wrenching changes already over the course of the last 5 years.
In the sense of the repo marketplace it seems cut back by 2/3.
From a size perspective on where it was in the financial crisis that must have been in '08 that that type of collaterals that are being financed from the institutions that are doing that finance are much higher and more kind of where the levels today than they ever were historically.
So I think despite the fact that the regulation will make it a little bit more costly from a business perspective the institutions that are currently in that business that remain that have been able to weather the storms over the last 5 years will continue to do that as it happens of financing in that particular way.
It may become a little less lucrative.
So currently if you look at the structure of many types of the government money market fund whether it would be treasury or treasury and agency a predominant portion of the assets within that product are generally repo repo back so indirect ownership bring the repo marketplace on their Treasury and several agency securities.
Perhaps that contract will change to some degree if in fact the financing side of the equation for repo becomes a little bit more expensive and trends more towards the direct ownership of those particular types of securities.
Again but it's sort of [indiscernible] and undertaken as that implementation quandary for a lot of these things is further down the road from a timing perspective and the potential likely sort of additional change is still pretty high.
The comment I'd make it relates to the liquidity coverage ratio which is arguably related to the question you've got.
But when the Fed's representative testified in front of the Senate about 10 days ago or so he made the comment that while they were going to get to that and it would probably be by year end.
And this is the way that the Fed has the ability to regulate how the banks utilize money market funds on a short-term basis.
What they're now calling of course the short-term wholesale funding market.
And so we would applaud their efforts to continue to do the regulation they think appropriate on the liquidity coverage ratio for the banks because we think it's a much more efficacious way to regulate bank use of money funds than by trying to clobber the money funds on the other side so that it's not unavailable alternative especially on the prime side.
Our final question today is coming from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions maybe first for Debbie.
Debbie what is the risk to your near-term rate forecast? If ever that you're going to be wrong what would be the likely cause? And if -- I hope you can frame this.
If rates were to stay as low as they were today and not rebound in August what does that do to fee waivers? Does it increase them a little bit? Does it increase them a lot? I know that it's very sensitive around rates when they get especially low but just framing the magnitude would be helpful there on the waivers.
Hey Ken.
It's Ray.
I'll take the second part of that and then Debbie can comment on her forecast.
If you look at where we're trending now in July we would be roughly heading towards a 9.5 million month of July.
So if we had 3 months of July it would be at $28.5 million.
But as we've said we expect to see some improvements around the middle of the quarter.
Ken I think from a risk perspective it would be toward the lower end and not the opposite of that that we're looking for at this point of up to 2 basis points of improvement.
Having said that it's a few basis points that we're looking for in this quarter.
So I do think it's purely impactful in the context of the overall product.
Why do I think it's more potential for downside risk and that just has to do with a couple of things.
Number one the price side of the equation.
Certainly we were surprise with the strength in the supply or the strength in the receipts the Treasury was able to take in during the second quarter.
And the tax implication for that is it would give us -- it's no surprise again in the third quarter that has some negative implications from a financing needs standpoint.
Also at the end of the second quarter Fannie Mae paid out on a dividend basis back to the Treasury $60 billion because the housing money market is now improving.
They're able to start repaying some of their debt.
Freddie is going to be doing something similar at the end of the third quarter although much smaller in magnitude only $15 billion.
So again that has -- we're taking that into account like it potentially has a little bit more impact on the supply side of the equation.
And then I think the other targets that we are continuing to be wary about is the economic growth in the marketplace.
Certainly we've seem to have more positive step forward than negative step backward at this point.
Nonetheless I don't think that we are completely convinced that we are on firm footing for ultimately good growth going forward.
So I think that would be sort of again the impetus to -- the board has been a little bit more on the negative side than what we originally would like.
Research Division</strong> Moving on to Kaufmann how much institutional or quasi-institutional money is run by Kaufmann these days? And as we think about Lawrence and Hans how much of the assets are really at risk if they depart or retire? And are there any contingency plans in place? Or is there a plan in place to kind of the transition to management of these products just based on them being well into retirement age? As regards to the institutional participation it is negligible.
As regards to Hans and Larry they remain as strong at the ship of state and are working hard.
I might add as a footnote for that one of our founding partners Dick Fisher is in here.
He had his 90th birthday in May and he's in here working every day traveling talking to broker dealers and things like that.
So these guys are turned on and tuned in to their portfolios and got some good things going.
next point would be that they have a gang of analysts/sub-portfolio managers that are outstanding and have been together for a long time.
When we bought the enterprise years ago one of our fellows went up there by the name of Aash Shah and he remains a part of that team.
And the individuals in that team run sections of those portfolios which would continue.
So the succession plan is that you have Mr.
Lerner in there who's been with them for many many years and you have a strong portfolio management team that has segmented that portfolio for a long time.
And I have not heard from any of them nor do I expect it to be true that either Hans or Larry have any idea of retirement.
They like Dick Fisher love it and have to have it and we're happy to have them.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Well we'll conclude the call and we thank you for your time today.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ray Hanley.
Thank you Mr.
Hanley.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
And we also have Debbie Cunningham Chief Investment Officer for Federated Money Market participating in our Q&amp;A session.
And let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements and want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning.
I'll begin today with a brief review of Federated's business performance and Tom will comment on our financials.
Looking first to cash management.
Period-end money market fund assets increased by $5 billion from Q2 while average money market fund assets decreased by $3 billion.
We saw gains in government funds partially offset by lower assets in Prime and Muni.
Our market share was just under 9%.
The impact of yield-related fee waivers increased in the third quarter as repo rates declined substantially from the prior quarter.
Tom will comment further on this in his remarks.
On the regulatory front Federated filed a series of comment letters in response to the SEC's money market fund proposal which was published in June.
We were heartened to see that many of our clients and issuers that we invest with went on the record to express their strong concern with the measures proposed by the SEC.
The overall response to the SEC has been broad based.
Many individuals and groups representing literally millions of businesses treasury and financial professionals as well as state and local government finance professionals and investment officers have submitted their views for consideration.
These responses overwhelmingly express opposition to Alternative One the SEC's floating NAV proposal.
In fact over 98% of the more than 1 400 letters expressed opposition to the SEC's floating NAV proposal.
Some of the noteworthy groups going on the record against the floating NAV proposal include the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce representing more than 3 million businesses and organizations; the American Bankers Association the voice of the $14 trillion dollar banking industry; the Association for Financial Professionals representing more than 16 000 treasury and financial professionals; the American Council of Life Insurers representing 300 members and 90% of the assets and premiums of the life and annuity industry; and a host of government and municipal finance and investment organizations like the National Association of State Treasurers The U.S.
Conference of Mayors the National League of Cities and others.
Now approximately 90% of the comments supported Alternative Two which is the voluntary gating and fees concept that was proposed.
And many proposed to accept this but with modifications.
Given the significant issues raised by Federated and others we expect a lengthy review process that is likely to go into 2014.
We and many others find that the case has not been made for floating the NAV of a money fund as a remedy for the regulator's expressed concern about increased redemptions in periods of market stress.
Floating the NAV would impose significant operational burdens create extensive new tax and recordkeeping requirements and result in enormous new cost for system reprogramming and recordkeeping.
Less efficient capital formation would add material cost for corporations and other issuers in a post-institutional prime money fund world.
While the costs are large and burdensome the benefits are illusory at best.
We believe that there is no discernible meaningful benefit that would be achieved by floating the NAV.
And certainly there would be no benefit in stopping so-called runs.
In contrast with the floating NAV gating that is giving the fund's Board of Directors the option of imposing a temporary gate on redemptions in extremely rare occurrences of dysfunctional market conditions promotes the equal treatment of investors and improves the financial markets by stopping a run dead in its tracks.
It has proven to be effective in practice recall the Putnam transaction in '08 and most importantly preserves the critical features and benefits of money funds.
Money funds continue to enhance our financial system and to operate effectively.
The recent U.S.
government debt ceiling crisis is only the latest in a series of tests that money funds have convincingly passed since the extensive regulatory changes were enacted in 2010.
We expect that sound policy will win out thereby preserving the crucial features of money funds that have made them so important to tens of millions of investors to thousands of short-term debt issuers including state local government entities and corporations.
Now turning to equities.
Gross equity fund sales were strong up 28% compared to Q3 of 2012 down only slightly from the recent high level attained in the second quarter of this year.
On a year-to-date basis gross equity fund sales are up 15%.
Equity separate accounts showed positive flows driven again by the Strategic Value Dividend strategy.
Net equity fund flows were negative in the third quarter due to approximately $1 billion of redemptions from 2 clients.
In addition to the $220 million index fund redemption mentioned on the last call another client redeemed $770 million from the Kaufmann Funds.
Recall that even though through September 30 the Kaufmann Fund was in the fourth quartile for the third and -- for the 3- and 5-year period for the trailing 1 year it has climbed into the top third.
Now overall our equity franchise is very well positioned with a variety of products exhibiting strong 3-year records and positive flows.
We have 12 funds or about half of our strategies with top quartile 3-year records covering a wide span including international balanced allocation income growth large and small cap global allocation core value and index strategies.
We also had 12 funds with net positive sales in the third quarter including Kaufmann Large Cap growth Capital Income balanced allocation fund Strategic Value Dividend both domestic and international Clover Small Value International Leaders and the Managed Volatility solutions product.
Looking at early Q4 equity fund flows net flows are solidly positive led by Capital Income Kaufmann Large Cap and domestic and international Strategic Value Dividend Managed Volatility and the small -- Clover Small Value Funds.
Equity SMA flows are also slightly positive early here in the fourth quarter.
Now taking a look at fixed-income.
The third quarter produced lower net fund outflows compared to the prior quarter where Federated and the industry experienced a rapid move by investors out of bond products in June.
Fixed-income separate account net flows were positive.
We continue to see solidly positive flows into high-yield short duration and stable value funds and into a collective fund pursuing a multisector strategy for a large institutional customer.
We are seeing an uptick in flows in our floating-rate strategy which takes a differentiated multi-asset class approach to the floating rate space.
At quarter end we had 12 fixed-income strategies with top quartile 3-year records: Federated Bond Fund high-yield institutional our Intermediate Gov/Corporate Emerging Market Debt Ultrashort Bond Short-Intermediate Duration our muni trust among others.
Fixed-income outflows are slightly negative for the first couple of weeks of October.
Turning to overall fund performance and looking at Morningstar-rated funds 44% of rated equity funds are in 4- and 5-star products as of the end of the quarter and 73% are in 3- 4- and 5-star products.
For bond funds the comparable percentages are 49% 4- and 5-star; and 86% 3- 4- and 5-star.
As of October 23 managed assets were approximately $363 billion including $265 billion in money markets $42 billion in equities and $56 billion in fixed income which includes our liquidation portfolios.
As part of this money market mutual fund assets stood at about $233 billion.
So far in October the money fund assets have ranged between $229 billion and $238 billion and have averaged $233 billion.
Turning to distribution.
Equity fund gross sales are up 15% year-to-date compared to the same period last year.
We have seen a 26% growth in the broker/dealer channel which has been helped by the addition of wholesalers and related resources.
We have expanded the number of advisers doing business with us and increased the product set used by these advisers.
We are considering further modest growth of sales personnel in this channel.
Interestingly the number of advisers doing business with us is approximately 39 000 FAs up from 36 000 in '11 and 29 000 in '08.
In the institutional channel at quarter end we had about $476 million in equity as separate account additions yet to be funded.
Regarding our offshore business and acquisitions we continue to develop our Asia Pac operation in Australia and we are in an active search for a Head of Sales in Australia followed by similar additions in Hong Kong and Singapore.
We recently announced the expansion of our U.K.
operations.
We are moving a Pittsburgh-based trade-financed Portfolio Manager to London in a supervisory capacity and added 3 highly experienced trade finance investment professionals to our London office.
We also added 2 London-based emerging market debt investment professionals who bring decades of experience to our EMD team.
We continue to actively seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Asia Europe as well as in the U.S.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Taking a look first at money fund fee waivers.
The impact to pretax income in Q3 was $30.3 million up from $23.7 million in the prior quarter.
The increase was due mainly to lower rates for treasury and mortgage-related securities.
In July our estimate of $28 million for the Q3 waiver impact used a repo range of 3 to 8 basis points.
The actual repo range was lower at about 2.5 to 4.5.
In addition approximately 500 000 of the higher waiver impact was from proxy costs related to changes in the Federated Fund Board of Directors.
Based on current assets and assuming overnight repos for treasuries and mortgage-backed securities run at between 3 and 6 basis points over the quarter the impact to minimum -- of minimum yield waivers to pretax income in Q4 would be about the same as in Q3.
Revenues in Q3 decreased 5% from the prior quarter due largely to minimum yield waivers and to a lesser extent to lower average fixed-income and money market assets and to the impact of higher waivers due to the director proxy costs.
These items were partially offset by the impact of an extra day in the quarter higher average assets for equities and performance fees.
Operating expenses decreased from Q2 largely to lower distribution expense resulting from higher minimum yield waivers and to lower comp and related expenses.
Distribution expense included approximately $1 million of director proxy costs.
The impact of director proxy costs also reduced noncontrolling interest by about $0.5 million.
In total the impact of the director proxy to pretax income was a reduction of approximately $2.2 million.
Nonoperating income included $4.4 million of realized gains from investments and an impairment charge of $3.1 million related to a change in the fair value of a minority interest investment which now has a remaining book value of $600 000.
The Q3 effective tax rate was 35.7%.
The rate was reduced by about 2.2% due to the reversal of a capital loss carryforward valuation allowance related to the capital gains realized.
We estimate the effective going-forward rate to be around 38%.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Cash and investments totaled $351 million at quarter end of which about $259 million is available to us.
Looking forward cash and investments combined with expected additional cash flow from operation and availability under present debt facilities provide us with significant liquidity to be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities and related contingent payments share repurchases dividends new product seeds and other investments capital expenditures and debt repayment.
We would now like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions maybe first on the non-U.S.
equity presence.
Maybe can you update us on how sales are progressing in Europe? You've got some distribution relationships there.
How you're thinking about Asia? And then lastly given RDR in the U.K.
how do you kind of fit into the new world given new rules that have and will continue to go into effect in the U.K.? Let's work backwards.
With RDR obviously that has already been implemented and has already had some effect in the U.K.
And we think one of the things this will do is expand distribution opportunities -- I mean acquisition opportunities for us in the U.K.
because it throws all the balls up in the air.
When you eliminate commissions it does change things.
So I think there will be some attrition of selling FAs in the U.K.
as people look at their businesses and realize that the models have to change.
But I think it will also give opportunities for people like us who are looking to move in there some opportunities.
So that would be the first part.
In terms of what's going on in Australia and Asia we are not currently selling any of our mandates.
As I mentioned we are looking to bring on the salespeople in order to do that.
So it's a little early to be talking about the actual equity flows in the Asia Pac area.
Research Division</strong> And then in Europe how are the sales progressing? And I should expand it.
I know fixed income the high-yield product is bigger there.
But how are sales progressing on the European side? Ken we would describe that as early stage.
We're as we've talked about working with Bury Street there.
We've had some sales in the high-yield space and we're also looking at our dividend strategy.
But that's still kind of in a more or less of a startup phase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe next turning to the profitability of the money market fund business the treasury business appeared to waive maybe record fees last quarter.
And some of the products that we audited seem to have higher fee waivers than management fees at this point.
And I think profitability was limited previously but my understanding was that profitability was still positive.
So as we stand today in the third quarter is the money market fund business still profitable for you today? And is the treasury fund business still profitable for you today? Yes and yes.
And I think what you're seeing is that as we share with our intermediaries in the waivers and as it has gone down the rates are so low that there's -- we end up bearing depending on which fund it is more of the sharing.
Research Division</strong> Yes but it's still -- but you're still net-net even with allocated costs -- everything is still profitable? We don't allocate the costs but we believe that everything is profitable which is why I so quickly said yes and yes.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
This is actually James Howley filling in for Michael this morning.
Just wanted to come to fixed income and see if maybe you guys have started seeing some investors who pulled away from fixed income more broadly earlier in the year maybe starting to come back into some of those less correlated strategies maybe some international and high-yield stuff? That would be great.
James yes we are certainly seeing interest in particular on the high-yield side though I would describe that as sort of -- that's been a running trend for us.
The product set that we have there is outstanding.
We have funds literally in the top percentile top decile.
In the institutional product I think to your point the flows into that product shows that we're obviously in a yield-starved market.
And our high-yield team thinks there's still a good ways to run on the high-yield side and it's resonating with our clients.
Great.
And maybe one for Tom.
Just any adjustments in the bonus accrual in the third quarter? And maybe any color on how you're kind of thinking about the comp line as you look out into the fourth quarter? Sure James.
We did have an adjustment and it was approximately $2 million.
And so when you factor that in for the year if you're looking at the fourth quarter you'd probably add $1.5 million to the number that's on there.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Katz of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Chris you may -- I think I caught the tail end of your commentary but could you just and I apologize in advance to everyone can you just repeat what you were saying in terms of the timing of reform when you expect some of these comments to be filtered by the SEC and for their rebuttal to come out and then the reaction from that? What I said there was that because of the depth and the high quality of the comments it would take them a good bit of time to get through all that and we would be well into 2014.
If you press me on it I don't think they can get it done in the first quarter of 2014.
And after that that's up to the worker bees at the SEC.
And don't forget they did have a couple of weeks off.
So it's impossible to exactly say when this will come about.
But that would be about as close as I could guesstimate.
And remember I don't control it and I don't have any inside information.
I'll just add one comment and that is that for the 2009 proposals that ultimately resulted in the 2010 amendment they were slightly less than 200 pages in length and much much less in the context of the actual potential changes that could be occurring.
That was a 5.5-month process for the SEC to review those comments.
This document is nearly 700 pages long.
So I don't know whether you can interpolate from that or not but just a comment.
Research Division</strong> Yes it helps.
And then just staying on the money market discussion again you might have covered that so I apologize again I think the Federated share of this quarter was particularly high.
Is it just a mix issue? Was it an absolute level of interest rates? And is that part of your guidance for the fourth quarter in terms of that share staying about the same? Bill I would attribute it to mix.
We mentioned being up on the government side in terms of the asset flow but it's overwhelmingly a function of where rates ran in the quarter especially for the repo rates being in the 2.5 to 4.5 range.
You may recall back in 2011 we had a period a quarter where the share of waivers that we bore went up in a similar way.
So it's driven mainly by rates and by the mix.
And yes we factor that in among the multi-variables when we do a calculation of where we think the number's heading for the upcoming quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one last one just in terms of your guidance on assets Chris the money markets look like they're trending up just a little bit how much of that is maybe seasonal versus maybe the backdrop of short-term interest rates and/or what's going on in capital markets and equities in particular? I know it's sort of omnibus in relationship in many cases but any general trends you're seeing in terms of appetite for cash right now? Well let's talk specifically about the first couple of weeks and then I'll have Debbie talk about the flows more generally and the seasonality thereof.
But if you look at just this month of October what we saw happen was on October 1 we had about $123 billion in our government funds which are agencies and direct treasuries.
And that got to a low of about 1 16 on October 16 and on the 23rd stands at a little over 1 18.
And it's interesting that at the same time and on the same time frame our Prime was just about 94 on the 1st of October and then about 400 over that by October 16.
And then is also up from there another $1 billion by the 23rd.
And the Muni funds were more or less about flat.
So there was some movement of about oh $7 billion out of institutional government and treasury related to all of the shenanigans with debt ceiling and default threat et cetera.
And interestingly enough during that time the Prime funds were up while the government funds were down.
This is more or less a distortion to the regular pattern.
And as I mentioned to the numbers they're starting to right themselves and get back into the more normal regular flows.
So with that comment on October I'll let Debbie talk about the seasonality of the rest of the activity.
Thanks Chris and certainly what generally happens in the fourth quarter is that the week preceding the end of the year you will see a run up and sometimes it's even 2 weeks.
You'll see a run up in positive assets coming into -- flows coming into the government money market funds including both treasury and government agency products with a smaller outflow but definitely a negative flow to the Prime fund assets.
I'm sure that's reflective of year-end window dressing in many instances.
That's also -- we see that every quarter end.
But in a more minor fashion.
Year-end is generally a larger version of that same thing.
As far as the month of November and into early December and the rest of this month October no expected seasonal movements and from contacts with our own clients over the course of the first several weeks of October due to what was going on in Washington no outlook for change from our customers' preferences at this point in time.
Just throw in to your comment about whether we see money going to equity we don't really see or able to track that but I would point out that about a 1/3 of our money fund assets are retail in nature through the broker/dealer channel and those assets are actually up money market assets are up year-over-year.
So there's still a lot of money in cash.
Our next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on money market share in the industry.
It looks like looking at strategic insight data like you've been losing share this year both overall and in terms of institutional money market funds.
And particularly in terms of Prime it looks like you guys were the only ones that actually had Prime outflows in 3Q.
So is there something particular to Prime funds where you might not be in the same channel as others? Or is there something else going on in terms of institutional channel? What explains the share? Well it would be tough for us to pinpoint the movement of the Prime assets over that relatively brief period of time.
I -- we mentioned that on the government side we had assets were up in the quarter.
On the money share we've comment -- that market share we've commented on that before.
We've seen that sort of ebb and flow over decades.
Part of it has to do with differences in yield which tend to correct themselves over periods of time.
I would tell you that it's not -- there isn't a particular thing that we would point to.
We would prefer to look at it over longer periods of time.
And generally our share has gone up.
Research Division</strong> I guess a question on the yield being a differentiator.
Is -- in such a low yield environment is this -- does the yield continue to be a differentiator? The principal differentiator is daily liquidity at par and this is the main show.
Yes there is some ancillary or sporadic competition from those who are either able to put an extra basis point on or want to put an extra basis point on.
And this really isn't a lot different than we've seen over 40 years of being in this business.
So to us the core is to maintain the whole position of the money market fund as a cash management service.
And if people choose to waive more which some people periodically do then they can at the margin capture more assets.
But we don't ever end up losing clients.
And the differences in market share are measured in fractions of a 1/10 of a point.
And as Ray said it's really hard to get excited about that.
I mean we note these things.
But boy they go in ebbs and flows that it's really hard to get excited about.
Research Division</strong> Okay I guess just one follow-up on that.
So if you did feel as though others were waiving shares waiving fees more and gaining some share would that make you inclined to waive a little more or to maybe pursue acquisitions more? I guess how important is it to you to fight for that share? Or are you happy to see it go as long as you can maintain the fees a couple of basis points higher? The marginal battle for share is not the goal of the operation.
And our decisions on what to waive are really made independent of that.
And would it inspire us to do more or whatever on the acquisition side? We are fully inspired to acquire money fund assets whenever they're available and analyze all the deals and would be still inclined to do that regardless of the lay of the land on these moves in market share or other people's enthusiasm for higher waivers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just moving over to equity side.
It seems like Clover small cap's doing pretty well.
Is there any capacity issues at Clover we should know about? Not currently.
No Cynthia.
That fund is a little over $500 million.
We've seen a steady ramp-up in the sales each of the last 3 quarters.
That continues to get positive flows but we would be a fair ways away from a capacity issue there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Strategic Value it's still at bottom decile year-to-date but you're getting inflows.
Is that still a function you think of basically people viewing it in a different category as really a yield kind of fund? Well more particularly it does exactly what it says it's going to do.
So yes they look at it as a 5-and-5-type fund.
And the signal that we continue to get flows when it ends up being in the bottom quartile or bottom decile or wherever is really a tribute to the fact that the customers understand exactly what the fund is doing.
And so it really doesn't matter where they show up on that -- on those comparisons because that's not really what that fund is doing.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Lee with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quick question just on capital usage.
I'm just trying to remember did you have any legacy contingent payments coming up in the fourth quarter than maybe what you have ahead next year whether it's related to the SunTrust deal Clover or some other transaction? One second.
[indiscernible] I don't think in the fourth quarter.
But in the first quarter we have our final Clover payment.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that it for most of next year? I'm just trying to get a sense of demands on capital that's it.
Yes Rob for next year -- I mean for this year when it's all said and done including SunTrust and Clover we'll have about $8 million of payments for next year.
Based on where things stand today it would be around $12 million.
So a little bit of a step up but not material.
One more Rob the SunTrust thing is in December not next quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
I just was curious -- I know you had put out the press release and Chris you mentioned in your comments about moving some trade finance people to London but quite frankly I guess I'm just curious to know can you describe what that business is? And what -- I guess when I think of trade finance I don't typically think of it in an asset manager context.
The -- what trade finance is is basically good old-time factoring where you finance material products whether it's coal from Mongolia or grain from Brazil and it's over a short time frame.
And the banks don't generally want to do the financing.
So you end up with pieces of paper that are financed a maximum of 18 months a duration of probably 6 months or 9 months a wide variety of different kinds of products moving around short duration.
And the idea is to beat the T bills by 400 basis points on an annualized basis and this product has been doing that.
So that's pretty much what it is.
Now the challenge in it is to develop the paper and to develop the actual positions.
And so this requires a very comprehensive and creative network of people to be able to do these financings and do them efficiently in order to package them up into our various products and for our various customers.
And we think there are outstanding opportunities for us in this field both to enhance the performance of our own funds to take positions and to offer to institutional clients as part of large pension funds' desires to have yield to have relatively lower risk and a diversified type investment.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> But to make sure I understand so you have some standalone products that specifically raise whether it's an institutional fund or whatnot this is the mandate.
And then some amount of this paper gets placed in other kind of credit products that you may have.
Is that the way to think of it? Yes we have a core fund that is our trade-finance fund.
And some of the other funds can take positions in the core fund.
And then institutional clients we may develop a portfolio for them as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> But just out of --is it possible to kind of size what this business is? Or do you see this as -- clearly [indiscernible] Well it's grown to $400 million now.
But I think that it is a multibillion-dollar enterprise.
That's one of those forward-looking statements.
Right.
We mentioned Rob the floating rate product that ours are differentiated compared to funds that use all bank loans.
We have a heavy mix of bank loans but this would be an example of utilizing the trade finance asset class with -- that will react pretty quickly to upticks in rates and we think that's additive to our floating rate funds.
Our next question is from the line of Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm going to presume from your comments that you are part of the obviously opposed to option 1 in the money market reform discussion and that Federated supports option 2.
But Chris why? I mean not why do you -- why are you opposed to option 1.
You've made that very clear on multiple occasions.
But looking at the option 2 of gating or redemption fees in particular I mean isn't it the case that if you in a time of upheaval if you gate a fund you're just sort of putting off the inevitable that when the gates come down you'll have the same sort of rush to the door to the fire exits that would've been the case absent the gates or maybe not.
I'd like to get your thinking on why this is not just a better approach than option 1 but a sensible one.
There was an example Eric and that's why I mentioned the Putnam in my remarks.
And what happened there was that they had a $12 billion fund had $5-plus billion of redemption requests.
And the independent directors of that -- the directors of that fund decided to gate the fund.
And over the weekend a solution was found.
It was a combination of various things: The Fed coming up with a liquidity program and their fund deciding to come into one of our funds.
And so then in 1 week there was no disaster.
There was no forced selling of securities.
There was the honoring of all of the redemptions.
And it was no harm no foul no one ever heard of it.
The SEC in their 700-page proposal also articulated other examples of where gating in Europe and other places had been done successfully.
Next point is that when the 2010 amendments were put in the SEC put in the idea that you could gate the fund.
But if you gated the fund then you had to go into liquidation.
So the concept of the gating was already in the 2010 amendments except that the only solution was to liquidate.
And what's being proposed in option 2 today is to give the board of the fund the right to do the same thing that the Putnam board did.
And that we have articulated that is a very logical thing for a board to do because it looks at it and says "We want to treat all shareholders the same and fairly.
We don't want to have to artificially sell securities into the market.
And we want to take a time out to see if we're capable of figuring out a solution." And if you can't figure out a solution then you just gate the fund and you liquidate.
And don't forget that a money market fund among all investment products has baked in the cake a so-called living will.
You just hold the maturity and pay everybody out.
That's what would happen in the worst kind of circumstance.
One other point I would mention is that a part of the Investment Company Act since 1940 has been the right of the board to delay redemptions.
And notice I didn't say forbid redemptions it's just they delay the payment of the redemptions for 7 days.
And this has been baked in the Investment Company Act since 1940 so it's not unfamiliar territory.
Our next question is from the line of Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chris I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the floating rate funds and it seems to be a lot of retail flow going that way.
And maybe talk about the underlying liquidity of some of those markets.
Is there a sort of -- how do you sort of mitigate or sort of think about the flows that are coming in there for retail investors versus maybe the underlying liquidity of some of those asset classes? Are you talking about the bank loan fund or the money market funds? Research Division</strong> The bank loan funds.
So it's just outside of money funds.
I have a question on money funds of course too.
But just on bank loan funds I'm curious in particular how you think about all the retail flows that are heading that way versus underlying liquidity of the market managing that.
I don't think there's going to be a liquidity problem in that area.
And I'm certain we haven't heard of anything like that.
We think that the category is very very attractive because of yield-seeking investors who don't want to take a big risk.
And it's not unrelated to the overall Fed policies of keeping yields lower and people then searching everywhere they can.
And Mark I mentioned before that we have taken more of a multi-sector approach in that area.
It's not due to liquidity necessarily.
But because we think especially for institutional applications the idea of having bank loans but also having corporate exposure trade finance which I mentioned even a bit of mortgage exposure is an improvement over a full bank loan product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Chris just in terms of reform and discussions around it I'm just curious if you have a view overall on the OFR paper and just maybe how sort of money market reform plays into the overall idea of just asset managers being systemically important maybe some thoughts on that? Sure the OFR report the first comment I'd make on that is we are very very encouraged by the fact that the SEC has grabbed the ball here and put this out for comment.
Because it demonstrates to us a willingness on the part of an independent agency to actually defend its jurisdiction when it has the expertise and the directive from Congress to protect investors.
So this I think is the first and very important part of this.
When you get into it into the OFR report I think it has a lot of weaknesses.
Even though the report acknowledges that investment management is an agency activity and not a principal activity and that there's not leverage at the investment adviser level much like a bank they go on to just paint everybody the same and come up with ideas that don't really implement the acknowledgment of the agency aspect of this business.
And this will tend to send them in the wrong direction which is where I think they want to go anyway.
Interestingly enough as you mention systemic risk I'm attracted by Professor Hansen's definition.
He's the -- one of the 3 Nobel Laureates and he is quoted as having said that there is no academic basis to systemic risk and no definition and therefore it is a "grab bag for the regulators to go where they want to go." So I think we need more definition on what is a systemic risk.
And I think when you look at the report what they're talking about in there are possibilities of things happening.
And then therefore oh my gosh we have to do something.
And so they're taking the possibility not looking at the likelihood and then they make the perfect become the thorough enemy of the good.
And this is a dangerous way to try and jump into the capital markets.
But most importantly I think that some of the ideas that they've got in there will negatively impact investors.
And this is why it's so important to us that the jurisdiction be claimed by the SEC because their practice their mandate and their experience is the protection of investors.
Now we can quibble about the process and how they've gone on here but we will have commented by the time November 1 rolls around because we don't really think that firms like Federated and others meet some non-definition of systemic risk and we're very very concerned about what it will do to investors.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And then just a question on the long-term business float trends there and outflows I guess have somewhat persisted.
I'm just curious when you take a step back is it maybe it looks like Strategic Value is underperforming a little bit.
Is it performance product or what do you think it's going to take to really get the flow trends in the -- is it distribution? What's it going to take to get the long-term flow business on a more steady reliable trajectory? Just as a footnote I can't accept the -- a performance hit on Strategic Value.
We went through that a few minutes ago.
They're doing exactly what they were said they were going to do exactly for the clients.
So the flows continue to be good there.
And if you look at September there were positive equity flows for us; October as I mentioned in the call positive for us; and we had those 2 big hits over the summer.
And so that's why I went -- spent so much time on the 12 mandates that are top quartile for 3 years and the 12 that have positive flows.
That's what it's about basic blocking and tackling.
So it is a combination of those.
We're seeing some good numbers here.
But they obviously weren't enough to offset the lumpy ones but that's what you've got to do is continue to pump out the performance.
And I think the 200 person -- 210-plus distribution is working well.
That's why I highlighted the up performance in the broker/dealer where we just expanded that sales force.
And it's the forces of redemptions that are tough to overcome.
But I think we're well on our way to doing that and we're looking for good growth in all of those equity areas.
And Marc the other thing I'd add is on the institutional side where we have about $0.5 billion to fund which is a big number a big number particularly for us.
And with the performance that Chris mentioned we're seeing a lot of interest we continue to see it on Strategic Value Dividend we've seen a lot on Clover a lot for our international products.
We mentioned on the last call interest on the MDT side.
So there are a number of bright spots there that we have that we fully expect to blossom into higher flows both for mutual funds and for separate accounts.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions one is on the 2 big equity outflows over the summer.
Were those removals from platforms? So there might be some follow-through in terms of slower sales? Or were those just one-offs? There will not be follow-ups on that.
They were one-offs if you want to call them one-offs.
They're pretty big one-offs.
Research Division</strong> But I guess were those removals from platforms where had they stayed some sales might have continued? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a narrow modeling question on expenses.
Appreciate the comments on comp but beyond comps the professional fees advertising have been a little bit elevated recently and I assume that's a function of all the regulatory work you guys have been doing.
But -- so as that continues should those remain elevated? Or is the bulk of that done for you guys so that it would tail off in 4Q in next year? Yes Cynthia we talked to the -- actually started our budget process and started talking to the people spending that.
And they said "Well it could either be similar to last year or lower." So we'll have to see where things go where the SEC comes out and we'll see where it comes out.
I guess when we go to do our budget we probably will have a decrease but that doesn't mean that's what will be the answer.
Research Division</strong> Right you'll budget for less but then play it as it happens okay.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Well thank you very much.
That concludes our call.
We appreciate your joining us today.
Thank you.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Fourth Quarter 2013 Investors Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ray Hanley.
President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you.
Mr.
Hanley you may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
We'll have some brief remarks and then open up for your questions.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated's CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
And joining us for the Q&amp;A is Debbie Cunningham CIO for our money markets.
Let me say that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosure in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it over to Chris.
Thank you Ray.
Good morning.
I'll begin with a brief review of Federated's business performance and Tom will then comment on our financial results.
I'll start with equities where we derived 40% of our fourth quarter revenues the highest percentage among the various asset classes.
We nearly reached our all-time high for equity managed assets this week with assets hitting $44.4 billion.
Sales results were strong in the fourth quarter with net positive sales of over $800 million for combined mutual funds and separate accounts.
Separate accounts were particularly strong at over $600 million.
For the full year gross sales of equity products reached an all-time high at just under $12 billion up over 13% from 2012.
Our broad and diversified mix of solid equity strategies positions us well for the renewed investor interest.
More than half of our equity strategies were in the top quartile for the trailing 3 years at year end and nearly 3/4 were top half in 2013.
The mix of strategies with top-quartile 3-year records includes international balanced allocation income growth core value alternative and index.
Our sales have become more diversified without the strategies like International Leaders and Kaufmann's Large Cap joining solutions products like Capital Income and the Strategic Value Dividend Strategies where income is the primary objective.
Nearly half of our equity funds had positive net sales in the fourth quarter led by strong results in the Capital Income Kaufmann Large Cap International Leaders International Strategic Value and Clover Small Value Funds.
Equity separate account growth was led by Clover Small Value Clover Value and Strategic Value Dividend.
MDT Mid Cap Growth was positive as well.
Early in the first quarter equity fund net sales are solidly positive almost $100 million led by International Leaders Capital Income Kaufmann Large Cap Clover Small Value and International Strategic Value Dividend.
Now let's turn to fixed income.
Fourth quarter net flows for combined funds and separate accounts were slightly negative yet improved from the prior quarter.
Fixed income separate accounts showed positive flows driven by a new mandate from munis and other fixed-income assets and additions to high-yield accounts.
We are seeing an uptick in RFP activity for trade financed mandates and expect to have new account activity in this area soon.
We continue to see solidly positive flows into High Yield Floating Rate and Sterling Cash Plus Fund strategies.
Outflows were concentrated in government and mortgage-backed products munis and the total return strategy.
Fixed-income fund flows turned solidly positive early in the first quarter led by the Total Return Bond Fund which improved its record with top-quartile performance for the third and fourth quarter of 2013 moving the fund from below median to the 27th percentile for its one-year performance at year end.
Also generating inflows are our high-yield strategies that have maintained very strong performance records and of course various short-duration strategies.
At year end we had 10 fixed-income strategies with top-quartile 3-year records.
Some of these products include our high-yield funds several government funds our Ultrashort Bond fund and our short-intermediate municipal fund.
Looking now at money markets.
Period-end money market fund assets increased slightly from Q3 while average money market assets were about the same.
Our market share was just under 9%.
On the regulatory front the SEC continues to digest the voluminous comments filed in response to their money market fund proposals with 98% of the commenters opposed to the fluctuating NAV for money funds including leading organizations of government and private sector financial professionals business representatives state and municipal leaders and many others.
It is clear that money market issuers and investors understand the negative impact and the lack of benefits from the floating NAV.
Additionally approximately 90% of the commenters supported Alternative Two which is the voluntary gating and fees concept as proposed with some modifications which would provide fund boards with the tools to deal with regulators' stated goal: stopping runs.
Congress is also monitoring money market fund regulations.
In fact consideration of the concerns of money market fund stakeholders and the negative consequences of impairing restricting the use of money funds was specifically listed as an expectation of Congress in the conference report to the large spending bill just recently signed into law.
The SEC also is reviewing the comments generated by their request for comments on the OFR report that provided insight into the views of those advising FSOC on the need for structural changes to money funds.
We think that the OFR FSOC fed views on money funds and asset management broadly illustrate a flawed bank-centric approach that could have dangerous consequences to the efficiency and effectiveness of our capital markets.
As stated in Federated's OFR comment letter the OFR report should be a wake-up call for those segments of the mutual fund and broader investment management industry as well as for the SEC the CFTC and state insurance commissioners who thought that FSOC had its eyes on money funds alone and would not reimagine all segments of the investment management industry as de facto banks that should be regulated like banks.
Indeed coupled with the designation of nonbank financial institutions as systemically important should be a wake-up call for participants in all aspects of the financial markets.
Taking a look at our most recent asset totals as of January 22.
Managed assets were approximately $379 billion including $278 billion in money markets $44 billion in equities and $57 billion in fixed income which includes our liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $239 billion.
The January average for money market fund assets are running at about the same $239 billion.
Looking at distribution.
Equity fund gross sales were up 20% in 2013 when compared to 2012.
We saw 31% growth in the broker/dealer channel helped by the addition of wholesalers and related resources.
We're planning further modest growth of sales personnel in this channel adding 4 field and 2 internal reps.
We are also planning to add sales capacity in our SMA business which has produced strong growth and has recently been ranked in the industry top 10 managers for SMAs plus model portfolios.
In the institutional channel we had several account additions that I mentioned earlier that funded in the fourth quarter resulting in strong quarter 4 growth for gross and net sales.
One of these a mandate for munis and other fixed-income securities for over $300 million was both won and funded during the fourth quarter.
The level of funding exceeded our expectations in the fourth quarter and we have another nearly $100 million in additions yet to be funded.
We anticipate that number to increase as we progress through the quarter.
RFP and related activity increased 20% in 2013 and remains high.
We expect to continue to win new institutional business in 2014 based on our performance profile product mix and sales effort.
The institutional team is also having success adding our products to new distribution opportunities within major platforms.
Examples during the fourth quarter included Kaufmann Large Cap Floating Rate Trust High Yield Trust International Leaders Capital Income and the domestic and international strategic value dividend strategies.
These and other placement successes offer solid growth potential.
Now turning to offshore business and acquisitions.
In our Asia Pac operation based in Australia we continue to look for an acquisition to move this effort forward.
Our expanded U.K.
resources are responding to the increased interest in our trade finance strategy that I mentioned previously.
We are seeing success from a modest wholesaling effort in Canada and in Latin America and are in the process of adding 3 new sales positions to increase coverage and sales.
We continue to actively seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Asia and in Europe as well as in the United States.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Taking a look first at money fund fee waivers.
The impact to pretax income in Q4 was $29.3 million down from $30.3 million in the prior quarter.
The decrease was due mainly to higher rates for treasury and mortgage-related securities.
Based on current assets and assuming overnight repo rates for treasury and mortgage-backed securities run at roughly 2 to 4 basis points over the quarter the impact of minimum yield waivers to pretax income in Q1 would be about $30 million.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 45% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
Multiple factors impact waiver levels and we expect these factors and their impact to vary through the quarter.
Revenues in Q4 increased 1% from the prior quarter due largely to higher average equity assets.
Operating expenses increased slightly from Q3 due largely to higher comp and related due to adjustments to bonus accrual and from seasonally high T&amp;E partially offset by lower distribution expense.
Amortization of intangibles decreased primarily due to the reduction in the contingent liability associated with an acquisition.
Nonoperating income increased from Q3 due to $2.9 million of capital gain distributions from mutual fund investments and a $2.5 million reduction in the level of impairment charges on a minority interest investment which has no remaining book value.
The Q4 effective tax rate was 34.3% and the full year was 35.8%.
Each was lower than expected due to lower state taxes which are estimated during the year based on projected apportionment of income for state tax purposes.
We estimate the effective going rate forward to be about 38%.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Cash and investments totaled $292 million at year end of which about $276 million is available to us.
That completes our remarks.
And we'd like to open up the call for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Michael Kim from Sandler O'Neill and Partners.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First just assuming risk appetites continue to improve it seems like we would continue to see money may be moving away from more dividend or income-focused equity funds in favor of more traditional strategies.
So just broadly speaking if that's the case how do you see that shift playing out from a flow perspective as you look across your business? We think we are in as good a shape as we have ever been in Michael in terms of that.
When you see the broad-based nature of the positive flows that we have in various funds from managed volatility to global allocation funds tail risk the tail risk fund the whole array of MDT funds obviously the large cap Kaufmann Fund and the movements in the Clover area we are very well set up for expansion in sales on those products.
And Michael if I could just add to that.
While there is shifting and more interest in the alpha strategies and as Chris points out we're very well positioned there the interest in the dividend-oriented strategies remains high income-oriented strategies.
Looking at our -- the early part of Q1 the Capital Income Fund in particular which is a balanced allocation product is among the leading flow getters for us.
So we see it as an evolution with the interest in equity income strategies remaining high.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just curious to get your take on the opportunity seemingly developing across institutional fixed income just assuming pension plans increasingly shift into maybe more defensive asset allocations now that they're closer to being fully funded.
So more specifically how your business might be positioning itself to take advantage of that trend? In that area Michael we would have a variety of products that would work well.
And one in particular that I would mention is a floating rate strategy.
We're seeing a lot of interest there both institutional and retail.
And the other one I'd mention is trade finance.
We mentioned in our remarks we have a very high level of RFP activity going on in -- for that strategy and a lot of institutional interest there.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one for Tom.
Can you quantify the adjustments in the bonus accruals in the fourth quarter? And then any color in terms of how you're thinking about the comp line as you look out to the first quarter just recognizing the seasonal step-up in payroll taxes? Sure sure Mike.
So in the third quarter we had reduced bonuses based on what we were seeing.
And then in the fourth quarter primarily related to the continuing improving performance in the equity area and the increased sales efforts we had to increase bonuses.
So when you do that in the fourth quarter you're looking at the full year.
So in terms of looking forward I wouldn't expect the comp total line to match what the fourth quarter was but it should be at a higher rate than certainly than the third quarter.
Our next question today is coming from Matt Kelley from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first one's kind of a follow-up to the last one there.
Just as there have been a number of puts and takes on your expenses in 2013 so I'm just curious given what your business objectives are going into the new year how are you thinking about various puts and takes on different line items going forward? What might we see you spend more on? And what might we see you spend less on? Well we think we're going to spend more on comp.
But again not for the -- probably not higher than the fourth quarter.
Distribution line is going to be driven by the waivers.
And so we already forecasted that to be at about $30 million.
The professional service fee line I would expect that to be a similar number.
Office and occupancy I don't see a lot of changing there.
Same thing in systems we're continuing to invest in technology area that we need to do.
The T&amp;E was probably a little bit seasonally high as mentioned in the call or in the comments.
So I would expect that to tick down a little bit below the $4 million number.
And advertising and promotional we're continuing our advertising program.
It's probably around the -- I don't know exactly what we expecting in Q1 but probably a similar number for the year.
And on the intangibles that changes around with our deals and valuations.
So I'm not really forecasting that one.
And other is other.
I would add one thing to that Matt tying in to the comments I made.
If you add up the various places were I said we were adding salespeople which was 4 plus 2 in broker/dealer 1 in SMA and 3 in Canada and Latin America you get 10.
Well we don't have them now.
And we are going to be adding them.
You won't get the full year impact of that.
But that will be one area that is specifically related to where we think our growth prospects and where we will spend more money.
And Matt on the nonoperating we had our capital gain distribution from our investments in the mutual fund at the end of the year which was $2.9 million.
So that comes once a year in mutual fund land at the end of the year.
So I wouldn't expect that -- us to get that number in the first 3 quarters.
And if we take gains in our portfolio we'll see the gains come through.
But the timing of that it depends in our seeding it depends on what's going on and how flows go in the new seeded products.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then I have one follow-up for Chris.
Just you talked a lot about kind of gaining traction in some of the separate accounts and specifically some of the equity and fixed-income funds you mentioned.
But I'd just be curious is there any -- are there any strategies whether it be in equities or fixed income or maybe alternative-type funds that you feel like you have an opportunity to play in that you're not currently in? Well we have recently made a new hire here of an individual who is going to head up the movement on the alternative side.
And we've got a lot of good products with the managed risk managed tail risk and products like unto that.
And I think we are going to see a bigger push coming from us this year on that subject.
The other ones I would just be repeating the funds the mandates where we have the equity products in very very good shape this year for collecting up regular sales.
Now on the fixed-income side Ray mentioned the trade finance.
And we're thinking we're going to have some pretty good things coming online on that as well.
Our next question today is coming from Craig Siegenthaler from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First given the strong growth in some of your equity products I'm wondering are there any capacity constraints in any of your smid kind of equity products given the growth? Well we aren't running against any of them.
You talk to the PMs about how big some of those products might get and they will have answers at some point.
But we're not in danger of hitting any of them in the near future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Chris I'm wondering if you could give us kind of your in-house perspective on the Financial Stability Board's document they put out in January 8 on kind of their own advice in terms of how they want to look at nonbank non-insurer global SIFIs.
And one of their kind of -- one of the differentiated ways they look at is kind of regulation more from the product level than from the company level.
I wonder if you had any thoughts around that? Well overall they seem to have an attitude that if it has money in it it must me a bank it must be regulated like a bank.
And so overall that would be the comment that we just don't think is apropos.
I think it is also consistent with the view that we have that there is an interest on the part of whether it's FSOC OFR the fed in getting more and more into the regulation of the investment management operation more broadly.
And I think that's a problem.
Our next question today is coming from Cynthia Mayer from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if you covered this.
I apologize if you did.
But on the uptick in equity separate accounts flows I think you mentioned Clover on that.
Can you give some color just on what types of products those are? Those variable annuity or those institutional what sorts of channels is that? Is that managed accounts? Yes Cynthia it was -- the biggest growth was in Clover both in the value strategy and in the small value strategy.
Traditional separate account and a significant sub-advisory addition were really the drivers there.
And then we had a few more institutional accounts come online for the Strategic Value Dividend Fund which -- our dividend strategy which to go back to an earlier question the interest in income by institutions remains high.
And so we see institutions looking to strategies like that to complement or even substitute for fixed income.
From an income standpoint there's still of course lots of institutional fixed-income interest for rebalancing and the like.
So you really see that going both ways.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a small detail question on the money markets.
The averages have been below the ending for a couple of quarters.
Is that just typical year-end people putting assets in at the last minute and then withdrawing them? That -- yes it would be hard to characterize.
I mean we typically do see assets come in late in the year go out early in the year.
But you've got an awful lot of different clients moving different ways.
So that one would be hard to flag specifically.
Our next question today is coming from Bill Katz from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you -- I think you talked about this in the last quarter's conference call.
I apologize.
I just couldn't find my notes.
Could you size or dimension the trade finance business a little bit in terms of the type of mandates how big these are and then the kind of fee rates that might be attached to them? Well the sizes can be all the way from tens of millions into hundreds of millions depending on the size of the client and how they look at it in terms of fitting into their portfolio.
And in terms of the...
From our standpoint though I mean it's a multibillion-dollar opportunity.
The asset class is enormous.
We're somewhere around $500 million to this point.
But we have several RFPs that are working their way through the process.
That would be typical for the size that we win in the -- anywhere from the tens of millions up into the low hundreds of millions.
So we're very optimistic about that.
We're seeing a lot of interests.
We have clients planning visits over to London to visit with our team there and it's something we think will show up in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And next question coming back to money markets for a moment sounds like things are moving along a bit.
Do you have a sense on the timing Chris in terms of when the SEC may come out with their responses to all these inquiries kind of...
Well Bill it's really hard for us to put an exact thing on that.
I'll tell you the bandwidth or the pointer fingers that we can look at.
The SEC as part of their regulatory requirements have to put out a date when they'll get their work done.
And they out the date of October of '14 for this particular issue.
A second pointer finger is that when we were doing the amendments in 2010 the time between the -- when the rule was proposed and it was actually adopted was 6 months.
And so here you have a lot more controversy.
You have a lot more comments and a lot more depth.
And so will they get that done within 6 months of September 17 or whenever the comment period closed? We have been told through our various meetings with commissioners that they are very importantly studying these items.
But they just don't tell us when they will come out with their final rule.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just a point of clarification Tom.
You mentioned that your comp would be flat in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter you said.
That's what I interpreted from your comments.
A is that correct? And then is there any type of sort of seasonal pressures that might change that calculus a little bit as you work through the year? Yes I don't know what's going to be in the first quarter because we've got to look at the sales and the performance.
And I expect it to be a little bit below actually the 68.7.
And how will that change? It's -- every quarter we have to look at the performance of the company the performance of the funds and the performance of the sales group to recalibrate it.
And we usually are optimistic starting in the beginning of the year with what's going to happen in order to not come to the end of the year and be short in terms of our accrual.
Our next question is coming from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I actually have a fairly close-in question and then a higher-level broad question.
My close-in question relatings to fixed income.
So my first question relates to fixed income.
I'm trying to understand sharpen my understanding of the key drivers at this point.
In other words you cited improved performance as a major driver of inflows but you've also cited ongoing interest in income.
So my question to say it simply is what are the key drivers of the fixed-income flows right now as you think about that corner of your business? Well if you look at the key drivers in terms of the mutual fund side just looking at this year so far the short-term funds are still doing quite well.
So you have the short-term income fund and the ultrashort government bond fund bringing in positive flows.
But you're also seeing a turnaround in terms of the Total Return Bond Fund which is the big picture here in the first year because of that turnaround in performance I talked about.
And that's -- those are basically the elements that have generated the positive flows so far a couple of weeks here into the year.
Now if you turn to the institutional side it's a little different picture because it's a question of the mandates.
We've talked a lot about the trade finance we talked about floating rates we're having interest in high yield.
And those mandates are won over a longer-term period and you really don't have the kind of weekly flow data that we have on the mutual fund side.
So those would be 2 gangs of products and mandates in 2 different marketing areas.
LLC Research Division</strong> My second question relates to the study that was released by I guess the Swiss group 2 weeks ago now that suggested that further work should be done to look at whether asset managers should be regulated more closely.
And they were making the point that while they understand that the money that you manage is your customers' money it's not the company's money it's the customers' money that asset managers engage in activities that could at least in the view of the authors of the study pose systemic risk mainly use of derivatives possibility of substantial requirements for liquidity and inability to meet those requirements.
What's wrong with that thinking? In other words understanding that your balance sheet doesn't include a lot of your own money relative to your customers' money but acknowledging too that asset managers use derivatives and can face demands on their liquidity.
What is wrong with the argument that asset managers need to be regulated more based on what I just referenced? What's wrong with that argument? We have filed lengthy papers on this.
I'll try to give you a summary of it.
Let's begin with the non-definition of what is systemic risk? We have Nobel laureates quoted as saying that the way Dodd-Frank presents it it isn't really a definition of an economic concept; it's a grab bag for regulators to determine where they want to go.
So we're not working with precise definitions of systemic risk.
Getting more to the question of the difference between an investment management operation and a bank debt and leverage do matter.
They are very serious and important things.
Because what a bank is doing is obviously ratioing itself: 10:1 15:1 30:1 back in the old days and that really really matters.
Whereas in an investment firm there are no leverages.
There are the leverages you've talked about which we'll get about in a minute in terms of derivatives and how you position your portfolio.
But the underlying customer owns the paper so that you have an automatic living will especially in a money market fund where if you run into a problem all you have to do is gate the fund and roll it out and in 45 days everybody has half their money.
In a variable price product all you have to do is turn the underlying security over to the investor which he or she owns already.
So these are some of the principal differences.
But I think the main one that I would talk about is the fact that whether you're not you are on leverage.
Now this gets into derivatives.
And now it gets into a question of how you use them and to what extent.
And if you're using them to balance your portfolio to examine your risks and those ways that's a lot different than what long-term capital was doing back in the old days.
So I think within those context you have to have serious discussions about the differences between an investment management complex and a bank.
Before we take the next question this is Tom.
I just want to ago back to Bill's question on next quarter's comp.
And I was talking to my team here in between and I neglected to mention about the payroll taxes that shows up in the first quarter where that's $1.5 million or so higher than the normal other quarters.
And then we also have some stock-based compensation that comes in in the first quarter.
So the -- I'm not really excited about predicting what the numbers are going to be.
But it probably will be at higher than the 68.7 and by maybe $1 million or $2 million.
I have one other point Eric I'd like to add to the short version.
And that is that when you have banks and central banks control the investment management business through regulation you have a completely different look at the capital markets.
For example the SEC is supposed to look at efficiency capital formation protection of investors.
These are not concepts that the fed is all that interested in.
And this is why we think it is very dangerous and potentially very damaging to the capital markets to change the nature of who and what entity and under what mandate regulators are looking at the investment management industry.
I'll end with that because we could go on.
Our final question today is coming from Ken Worthington from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Actually all my questions have been asked and answered.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Well that concludes the call and we thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O’Neill.
Please proceed with your question.
First just wanted to follow up on sort of the various initiatives to broaden your distribution reach it seems like you continue to add people and infrastructure so just wondering where you are in that process particularly as it relates to related expenses? Just thinking about if we should expect to see an incremental step-up in costs as you kind of work your way through the year? Well so I mentioned it we had about four lined up in the field and a couple internal sales and you can see that yes that’s going to cost money.
We continue to look to add others there we see as I mentioned two being added for the Canadian marketplace one of which is already added one of which we’re looking for another one we’re looking for the RJ Delta deal that’s another human.
We’re still interviewing for an open [rep] (ph) in the Mideast so that could be another one.
That’s what you’re looking at.
They are not like 10s and 20s that are coming on they are 1zs 2zs 3zs and 4zs that I’ve articulated.
Michael one other thing that probably will go up is the bonus expense related to the sales group as they produce first sales and net sales we’re going to have to continue to -- we’re going to have to uptake there an expense.
And then Tom maybe just to follow up on that front any color on sort of the comp line going forward particularly sort of given the moving parts first quarter to second quarter? Yes.
So I went through the changes from last quarter and from year ago’s quarter so I won’t repeat that but if you knock out the 401(k) and the payroll taxes the number might be around $70 million for the quarter.
Now I have to caveat that with what’s going to happen with sales bonus and what’s going to happen with investment management bonus because when the performance continues stellar as Chris has gone through more bonuses are earned and we’ve got to look that expect figure that out on a yearly basis where it’s going to be and then you run it through each quarter.
And then finally maybe just a follow-up on the M&amp;A discussion Chris just curious to get your current take on sort of the build versus buy decision when you are contemplating adding investment management capabilities it seems like scale is becoming increasingly important as well as the first-mover advantages so just curious if that has maybe tipped the scales in favor of acquisitions a bit more these days? Well it depends on which mandates and which country and -- for example if you are talking about our efforts on liquid Alts this is an effort where we are building it from within despite those factors that you just mentioned.
We hired this fellow Michael Dieschbourg early in the year out of Smith Barney.
We have a gang of eight funds that more or less count as liquid Alt-type funds.
They’ve got $2 billion in them already but there is a lot of science going into them in order to more carefully analyze the risk profiles and how these products are handled and they have delicious names like Absolute Return Pru Bear Managed Wall Managed Risk Managed Tail Risk Unconstrained Bond Global Allocation things like that.
So here is one where we are using a combination of our internal resources bringing in external resources and building it.
In other areas though you are right that it is very tough to build especially in a foreign jurisdiction and so we’re running into that as well.
But it really does depend on where you are and what the opportunities are in that jurisdiction.
firstly kind of getting back to the overseas initiatives again that you discussed just was curious whether it’s RJ Delta distribution agreements or adding sales in Canada or kind of the increased interest you’re seeing in London or maybe kind of the build-out in Australia that you’ve mentioned previously is there one kind of non-US region that you feel particularly confident in or expect to kind of grow your asset base more so than any of those others? Is there kind of one that comes to mind? Well on a percentage basis the Canadian one is looking very attractive.
We have a good gang of assets it’s a low amount.
So it’s $400 million $500 million growing pretty strongly so we’re going to get good percentage increases there.
So that would be one.
It isn’t going to exactly move the Dow instantaneously but overall I’ll give you some other color on that too but just let me say that you see what these various stories different aspects of how we are trying to build things internationally the Canadian the South American the Frankfurt office some of the efforts in London the interviewing Mideast candidates those are all trying to setup individual sales efforts with individual sales personnel to distribute Federated mandates.
That’s one deal.
Then we have in Germany a joint venture with the LVM insurance company well that’s another kind of a deal that works well.
And as we’ve discussed in Australia it’s kind of a put your own team together and then build or buy and hunt around and that’s the one that takes a long time in order to try and reach some fruition.
With Prime Rate it was a simple straight up acquisition.
So there are four different methodologies.
Now back to your question in terms of where we expect things to happen one of the efforts that we have I’ve mentioned it on the last call in pretty good detail was the trade finance in London and we’re hiring more people right now for that and we think this is a growing multi-billion dollar asset class inside Federated.
But it isn’t tied to any one particular jurisdiction.
The mandates will be surfaced nationally and internationally as will the underlying security so it’s not exactly a jurisdictionally-specific thing other than it is headquartered and run out of our London office.
And then just kind of shifting back toward the firm-wide blended fee rate for the quarter specifically I guess relative on a year-over-year basis just to account for the shorter day count so that came down a bit and I know fee waivers obviously played a bit of a part in that as well would you be able to just kind of provide a little bit of color on the underlying fee rates for maybe just equity versus fixed on a kind of trailing year-over-year basis and what may have driven either or both of those rates down? Sure Andrew.
I think that’s pretty well figured though it was largely due to the waivers on the money fund side.
On the equity side our fee rates from all sources really didn’t change much.
It went from about 82 to 81 and that would include advisory fees administrative service fee and then distribution fee.
And on bonds it went from 39 to 38.
Money funds went from about 12 to just under 11.
Maybe just a question on the fee waivers a little bit it looked like the repo rates came up in the quarter but it didn’t have that much impact so and I see you are assuming that they’ll be a little bit higher this quarter.
So at what point was something else offsetting that should we be watching more than just that rate at what point would that really begin to have an impact? Well the repo rates came up slightly I would say and weighted more to the second half of the quarter when the Fed effectively put the five basis point floor under it and so there really wasn’t much opportunity there for improvement.
Looking at this quarter and that’s as you pointed out we mentioned more like in the 5 to 6 range that’s where it’s been for the first couple of weeks in April and that -- you see that in our waiver forecast that the number would go down based on those conditions.
Debbie do you want to add anything to that or not? Well I would just confirm that we started out the quarter with the Fed reverse repo facility at a 3 basis point level.
We ended the quarter at 5.
We started the second quarter with that 5 basis point Fed reverse repo facility rate and our expectation is that post the April time period it may go down another basis point or two just depending upon what the ultimate supply is and what the need from a Treasury perspective becomes at that point.
The Fed reverse repo facility has absolutely served as a floor and certainly as you all know we do not transact specifically with just the Fed we continue to maintain our relationships with the traditional broker-dealers and banks in that repo marketplace.
Again they still are affected very much from a collateral supply demand aspect of the business and so you know (indiscernible) may still end up being -- even though there is a 5 basis points of sharing in the quarter you may still end up seeing some of our relationships and our need to transact especially for our rated A funds at levels that are slightly below in 4 basis point range.
Having said that it really does seem like at this point steady as you go is the likely end result.
And in terms of the outflows from money markets in 1Q it looked a little more severe for you guys particularly in Prime than for some others in the industry can you talk a -- give a little color on what would cause share shifts and how much of the outflows you think were seasonal as opposed to something else going on? Thanks.
It’s very difficult to be precise on how much of it is seasonal but obviously the numbers when you look in the industry pretty consistent $16 billion outflows in January and February and then going up to $50 billion in March and then you have additional acceleration around right up to and through tax.
So those patterns outflows in the first quarter and clustered around tax rates that’s something we’ve seen in the past.
As to specifically to prime that tends to be where we see clients using cash we talked on other calls about -- from the broad competitive landscape there’s still been a lot of money that’s gone into deposit products and there has been activity with competitors but beyond the general factors it’s hard for us to give you a specific attribution on it.
I can say from the standpoint of what we’re looking at as part of our portfolio management process we’re not seeing and I’m not sure Cynthia if you’re asking this as sort of the underlying question but we’re not seeing the trend at this point of movement out of one asset category i.e.
prime the more risky category into another asset category i.e.
government the less risky strategy.
That movement in anything related to it from a regulatory front from a credit front is not something that we have noted or heard clients talking about during the quarter.
And I guess last question is the buyback as you guys sometimes say is polite.
What would get you to really step up more? Well they have to put me in charge of it and take Ray and Tom out of being in charge of it.
So I’ll let them answer that.
We try to run our models and look at the growth prospects for the company and run actual returns on it.
And so forecast would have to improve for that.
And what’s going on with rates what’s going on with the regulatory front and how are the growth prospects coming in with a great equity performance and fixed income performance and the sales.
So that’s really what it would take for us to generate.
And Cynthia I would just add it in the context of total returns to shareholders the dividend levels have been robust payout ratios and so we feel like we’re doing a good job in terms of return to shareholders from all sources.
First just maybe three on money market fund share; what share is too low how would you go about stabilizing market share if you so chose and how much would it cost? What share is too low? Any share lower than where you are is worse than increasing it to a certain extent.
So there is no number that’s really too low in that sense.
And the share number is something that burps out after the fact and that gets into the second level of question as well what would it take to increase share and the cost of doing that.
And this is a calculation and an effort that we don’t do.
Others have done it and we’ve seen it over the 40 years in this business where others come in and say well If I only charge X basis points and do this I can buy this much money.
And we’re not in that business because our clients are in it because they are in it because of a cash management system.
And therefore we’re not looking to buy in people for a basis point two or in the old days five or more and so we don’t really attend to those kinds of calculations.
And over time this has proven out very well for us because over the four decades as you looked at all the cycles we always came out with higher highs and higher lows even that would be changes month-to-month or quarter to quarter on both the total assets and on the total percent of share.
One other point I would mention is that the money supply continues to tick up and so therefore there continues to be a little bit more money in the system each time that you move around.
So the overall macro situation not commenting on regulation but on -- in terms of money just available to be in for money funds still remains rather attractive but the game you’re talking about is one we just traditionally haven’t done and wouldn’t really choose to do.
And then I don’t know maybe for Ray the fee compression on the money fund side so in a year from 12 to just under 11 it’s just a basis point but it’s a big percentage can you just kind of walk us through where that compression what is the reason for the compression on the money fund side? I assume it’s mix but it would be helpful to have you walk us through it? Yes Ken it’s a gradual step I’m giving you those are on a net basis and so it really would have been driven by the waivers related to the yield environment.
It’s not a question of changing pricing or anything like that it’s essentially subject to the market conditions of the past year.
Okay.
Then I’ll ask the question differently.
So average assets were up sequentially in all of your asset classes in 4Q revenue was down even when accounting for the fee waivers and the two fewer days.
So what’s driving the fee compression? So obviously we can see the fee waivers we can calculate the two fewer days but even accounting for that it’s still down and I thought it was on the money fund side but what is it is it possible to kind of point us in the right direction? The next thing would be the blend of assets within the products and so if you look at the equity for example if you look at sequential quarter the basis points actually ticked up a couple of tenths of a basis point.
On fixed income they ticked down a couple of tenths of a basis point and the same thing and money markets.
Now you get into the mix of 150 funds and which funds had asset gains and which funds had -- went the other way and so I think that kind of a blend analysis would probably be beyond the scope of the call especially given those modest differences that we’re looking at here.
Okay.
I’ll try [to call back] (ph).
If you’re offline we can walk through some of the pluses and minuses.
A question on the money fund’s reduction in assets as a follow-up to an earlier question.
Acknowledging that there are going to be March quarter cash needs for taxes for corporations to pay payroll taxes make matches in 401(k) and other cash needs and short seasonal needs are you acknowledging or are you saying that it’s really not the case that this year’s reduction was unusually high? I’m just trying to get a yes or no answer as to whether this year’s outflows were -- this year’s reduction in money funds was unusually high more than one would have expected given the seasonality.
I think March probably was a bit higher.
I think April was in line with past seasonality both for us and the industry.
Are you attaching any significance to it or at this point to the higher-than-expected outflows in March or really --? Not so much I mean we’re aware of specific client situations where one in particular was a multi-billion dollar use of cash has anything to do with any of the things that we’re talking about so that’s part of cash management on a scale that we do it where you would have billions come in and then the money gets used for other purpose.
My second and final question relates to the money fund reform I think one of the things that Chris said in his prepared remarks or in his comments is that he is hopeful that good policy will open the day here and prevail.
My question which individuals or groups at this point are most vocal about the desirability of a floating NAV and why are you confident that it won’t be the outcome? Well the groups that are most attentive to the floating NAV are those basically who want to end the money market fund and that has been their heritage.
So they are very very few.
If you look at the comments of the 1 400 comments high 90-percentage were against the floating NAV.
So there are very very few people who are articulating for the floating NAV but they are a powerful and notable minority.
There are some in the media who are propounding for as well and some in the industry who see the beauty of floating the other guy’s NAV as the solution to the problem.
But as to what my confidence level is and to what the SEC will do I think I use the word what they should do.
I don’t know what they are going to do and it’s hard for me to characterize the level of confidence in what the SEC will do they should not do it and I would expect that they would allow good policy to win out here again and the biggest vote going on really I’ve talked about the comments I’ve talked about the way this business works but the biggest comment really is that you have $2.7 trillion worth of voters in the marketplace deciding that these funds are the way they want to manage their cash.
And that’s despite the fact that alongside of them they could buy and roll US government securities they could invest into big-to-fail banks and they could invest in our or others’ ultra-short funds with very modest fluctuations in the NAV and yet tens if not scores of basis points more in return.
And the reason is because of the efficiency and beauty of the money market fund product.
So it’s hard to say what exactly they are going to do or when they are going to do it but I don’t think that there is a good case been made for floating the NAV on these funds.
With that we’ll conclude our call and we thank you for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Second Quarter 2014 Analyst Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ray Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated's CEO and President and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer and joining us for the Q&amp;A is Debbie Cunningham our Chief Investment Officer for Money Markets.
During today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given of the future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it to Chris.
Thank you Ray and good morning.
I will briefly review Federated's business performance and then Tom will then comment on our financial results.
Certainly money-market funds are in the news with the SEC’s recent release of the new regulations.
And I will of course have some comments on this development but choose to begin by reviewing an outstanding quarter from the equity part of our business.
Q2 was another strong quarter for equity sales flows and performance.
Equities comprised 44% of our second quarter revenues the highest percentage among the various asset classes.
We also set another all-time high for equity assets reaching 50 billion in the second quarter.
Equity fund gross sales grew by 12% from the prior quarter and net sales more than doubled for the second straight quarter.
Our equity business is very well positioned with a strong combination of performance and products in areas of investor interest.
Half of our equity strategies were in the top-quartile for the trailing three years at quarter end while 80% were in the top half for the same period.
In fact eight of strategies which is over 30% are in the top decile on the trailing three year basis at quarter end.
Looking at the trailing one year 65% are in the top-quartile and 88% are above medium.
On the trailing three year basis we have the number one rated fund out of over 1 000 funds in Morningstar’s large value category with our MDT Stock Trust.
The MDT All Cap and the Clover Value funds are also top-decile in the same category.
In addition we have top-decile products in a range of other categories including conservative allocation Foreign Large Blend and large growth.
Second quarter net sales grew at a robust 15% annualized rate with growth coming from a range of strategies.
We had 18 funds produced positive net sales in the second quarter.
Standouts from multiple categories include capital income fund over 450 million strategic value dividend with over 325 million and international pushing 100 million.
International leaders over 250 million MDT Stock Trust just under 100 million Muni Stock Advantage Fund again pressing and the Kaufmann Large Cap had about 70 million and the Managed Volatility Fund at 44 million.
Equity separate account net sales also increased substantially from the prior quarter.
Growth was led by strategic value dividend domestic and international Clover All Cap Value.
Our SMA business has grown dramatically with the assets at nearly 15 billion at quarter end up 34% over the last year and up 17% year-to-date.
We have our best quarters ever for both growth and net sales in the second quarter and we ranked in the top-10 of industry SMA managers as of Q1 of ’14 the most recent data point available.
Early third quarter equity fund net sales are over 250 million led by the same products I have mentioned already.
Turning now to fixed income.
Second quarter net flows for both funds and separate accounts were negative.
The majority of the fund outflows were from early quarter redemptions which we previously covered.
We had positive flows in our sterling cash plus High Yield Floating Rate and Ultrashort Bond funds.
Within fixed income separate accounts we added a $68 million emerging market separate account and we had a client internalize approximately 150 million as a result of an acquisition.
We continue to see good levels of interest in our differentiated trade finance strategy and recently won two mandates for about 40 million.
Fixed income flows are negative early in the third quarter about 85 million at this point.
At quarter end we had seven fixed income strategies with top-quartile three year records including High Yield Intermediate government Short-Intermediate Total Return Bond Ultrashort Bond and Short-Intermediate Duration Muni.
Looking now at money-markets period-end an average money-market fund assets decreased by about 15 billion from the prior quarter we had one client redeemed about $4 billion due to the persistent low yield environment.
Our market share at quarter end was approximately 8.3% down about 1% from a year ago.
We continue to see yield-based pressure from bank deposits and other cash vehicles and distribution pressure including certain competitors waiving additional fees in order to produce additional yield.
The SEC released on Wednesday new rules for money-market funds importantly treasury government and retail funds as defined were exempted from the floating NAV requirements.
However Federated is disappointed that the SEC has voted to adopt a floating NAV for institutional prime and institutional Muni money-market funds.
Federated remains committed to providing a variety of liquidity management solutions to our clients including those that meet the needs of our institutional prime and institutional municipal fund shareholders.
We offer a variety of cash management solutions and are developing new products for our customers.
We intend to create privately placed funds that will likely mirror existing Federated money-market funds to serve the needs of groups of qualified investors as soon as reasonably practicable.
We will be reviewing the details contained in the commissions 869 page rule making as we consider next steps.
The new rules will be subject to a lengthy implementation process including two years for the floating NAVs.
We are communicating with our clients to work through the full breadth and scope of the final regulations.
The new rules also creates significant new operational burdens for example regarding the tax release announced yesterday the SEC stated that the tax compliance burden has been lifted for investors in floating NAV money funds.
We believe that money-market funds sponsors and investors should have had an opportunity to review and comment on the proposed solution to the tax issues caused by floating the NAV in order to provide the SEC and the treasury with a complete evaluation of the cost and benefits of their proposal and related tax release prior to final adoption.
In our view such notice and opportunity to comment is essential if the ultimate goal is good public policy.
Now taking a look at our most recent asset totals as of July 23rd managed assets were approximately 350 billion including 244 billion in money-markets 50 billion in equities 56 billion in fixed income including liquidation portfolios.
Money-market mutual fund assets stand at about 211 billion and our July average money-market assets are running at about 212 billion.
Taking a look at distribution in the broker dealer channel we continue to make strides to increase our presence and leverage our strong investment product set.
We are working on adding additional wholesalers and recently made some organizational changes to better align our resources with sales opportunities.
Inside this we are adding four field reps and we recently added two internal reps so far this year.
We have also added sale capacity in our SMA business which I highlighted earlier of its growth in assets.
We added a sales specialist to focus on new firms that have added Federated strategies to their platforms.
We continue to expand distribution for SMAs as we had the international strategic value dividend strategy approved on three major platforms in the second quarter.
We are working on some interesting new product opportunities in the alternative space for SMAs for example a managed volatility product.
We are also continuing to invest in the institutional channel with the recent addition of a senior sales person in the retirement area and the addition of another institutional position to focus on retirement key accounts and portfolio construction.
We added the EM account mentioned earlier this -- earlier as well as several smaller accounts in the second quarter including a few trade financing accounts.
We have approximately 75 million in fixed income wins that are yet to fund.
RFP activity remains high with interest in Kaufmann Clover MDT Strategic Value and International Strategies for equities Short Duration Core Broad Muni High Yield and Trade Finance for fixed income.
In terms of international channels we are also adding sales resources to accelerate the growth we have seen in Canada for both retail and institutional markets.
We recently hired an institutional sales person and filled an internal sales position.
We are beginning to see RFP activity from our sales efforts in Chile with a focus on U.S.
High Yield mandates.
In Asia-Pac we continue to look for an acquisition to move this effort forward.
In London we had a good quarter for flows in our sterling cash Short Duration bond fund and basically those numbers were a little over 150 million translated into the U.S.
dollars.
And we are responding to increased interest in our trade finance strategy we actively continue to seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Asia Europe as well as in the United States.
At this point I would turn it over to Tom to discuss our financials.
Thank you Chris.
Looking at money funds minimum yield waivers the impact to pre-tax income in Q2 was $30 million based on current assets and assuming overnight repo rates for treasury and mortgage-backed securities run at roughly 5 to 7 basis points over the quarter and T Bill stay in the 2 to 5 basis point range.
The impact of these waivers to pre-tax income in Q3 would be about $31 million.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 45%.
And a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 70%.
Multiple factors impact waiver levels and we expect these factors and their impact to vary.
These factors include changes in fund assets available yields for investments actions by regulators changes in the expense levels of the funds changes in the mix of customer assets changes in distribution fee arrangements with third parties Federated’s willingness to continue the fee waivers and changes in the extent to which the impact of the waivers is shared by third parties.
Revenue was down from Q2 2013 mainly due to higher minimum yield waivers and lower money-market assets partially offset by higher revenues from equity assets.
Operating expenses were down from Q2 2013 due mainly to a 4.6 million decrease in distribution expense related to lower money-market assets and higher minimum yield waivers.
Non-operating income increased from Q2 2013 due to lower debt levels and increased from Q1 due to gains in investments including consolidated products.
Looking at our balance sheet cash in investments totaled 264 million at quarter end of which about 244 million is available to us.
We amended and extended our credit facility in Q2 the structure has been reset to a new five year term.
The changes effects the remaining 255 million balance of the previous term loan and the $200 million revolver that remains available.
As a result the total debt expense of the facility will decrease from about 4.5% in Q2 to about 3.5% in Q3.
The quarterly amortization will be 6.4 million for four years through July 1 2018 and then 36.7 million through the maturity in June 2019.
We would now like to open the call up for questions.
First in terms of money-market fund regulation do you think the changes are substantially over when the SEC implements its rules or are there other regulations or rule changes in the reader screen that either flow through directly or indirectly that could have a meaningful impact on the money fund business here? My estimation though not being certain or have inside information on it that the SEC has spent so much time so much effort that they are delighted to have this in their view off of their agenda.
Chair White has made it clear that she wanted this to be completed for the purpose of getting it off the agenda so right now I would not expect them to be doing more I do know however that FSock said that they saw the SEC moves as “substantial regulations” but that they were going to be looking at what all that meant.
So I would for one not expect at this point to see more money-market fund regulation.
They did put in that there is going to be a re-proposal on some things which are all part of this but I don’t think that was really the spirit of your question.
But in your radar screen in terms of Repos or Basel or other things that you think could have a big impact on the business? I think that there will be a continuing effort on the part of banking regulators to regulate the banks.
I think there will be continuing efforts to tighten up the repo situation although as has been mentioned at the SEC hearing that the repo activity has been very very closely watched and improved in terms of cutting down the amount of time when some of the custodians were to review this perhaps been on the hook so the time has been improved on all the third party repos.
And -- but there will probably still be improvements there.
The impact of Basel III and the liquidity coverage ratios I think will be another thing that they’ll be working on and I think banks will also be working on to the extent to which they put out guarantees on securities and that’s all part of the banking regulation and I wasn’t trying to comment on that I was commenting on what the SEC would be doing.
And then can you may be give us your expectations about the cost to implement the new money-market fund rules and would there be ongoing incremental costs to kind of comply with the rules going forward and if so like how big would those be are they small are they big are they somewhere between? Well we’re not in a position to put any kind of a number on that yet.
We’re in the process of going through the kinds of products that we might want to come up with in order to respond to capture clients that don’t fall into a group that would qualify for a private fund and a retail exemption.
And when you have a lot of clients that are on omnibus accounts where you have both types of clients inside that omnibus it is very difficult for us to figure out what has to happen in the day and a half since the rates came out so I am not in a position to give you a number on our costs.
I would say the costs will be substantial in terms of industry because you have got a lot of products to change around.
And if you are going to maintain a floating net asset value product you’re going to have to go to four decimal places and we have commented extensively on those kinds of costs.
Whether those products remain viable remains to be seen so it’s pretty much up in the air right now as to what those costs will be.
So first Chris like you said it’s only been a couple of days but any feedback from any of your institutional clients in terms of the transition to floating NAVs? And then assuming you see a meaningful shift in the underlying mix of your money-market business overtime just wondering how you think about the longer term implications on maybe the earnings power of the franchise once we work through all the fee waivers and upfront costs? Let’s divide this into two groups first of all on the clients I will comment then I’ll have Debbie to comment.
We had a I call with six year has 700 clients yesterday the theme of what we presented was basically look you have got a two year implementation nothing changes right now.
Digest what is in the rule give us a shot at figuring out what kind of products can work and can come in here nobody wants to create any sudden consternation or any kind of difficulty so that’s kind of the main show.
I have not had clients talking about shifting assets from this column to that column as of yet and now I will let Debbie talk about the call and then I will come back and talk about the business.
I will just reaffirm that we have had a tonne of clients contact over the course of this week both pre and post rule making and it has been very positive in nature I already understand the two year implementation time period everybody understands that there will be a shifting of products from a mix perspective making sure that there is a fast time delineation between retail and institutional curve whatever this definition turns out to be and as far as kind of shifting in assets now nobody seems to be at all concerned or worried about that.
Our call yesterday with our underlying clients where we summarized the rules and gave some insight into the process that we will be undertaking to come up new products for them went very very well.
A lot of Q&amp;A we probably had an hour’s worth of Q&amp;A in that call but all very positive from a timing perspective just trying to get a better handle on when to start expecting seeing -- to see new products and new ideas for transitions of current products.
So I’d say all-in-all the reaction from clients has been as we were hoping it would be which is the focus on the change but also the focus on the long timeframe from the implementation time period and no real need at this point to do anything different with what they are already doing with our cash.
And Mike with a follow-up on the second part of the question which is I am taking to mean the long-term viability to the cash management business its earnings power and things like that make a couple of observation.
Observation number one is that with $2.6 trillion or $2.7 trillion in these money funds with very very low yields for a very very very extended period it tells you that there is a certain love for a cash management product as a cash management services and so the underlying customer demand is certainly there.
We believe that our position both in terms of the leadership that we have taken and in terms of commenting on rules and getting 250 shout-outs and footnotes on the SEC rule and things like that demonstrates our leadership position.
I think you are going to see a little more consolidation in the business as others take a look at this and throw in the towel.
And I think that the focus of this firm as one of our key businesses will enable us to be very very competitive with the kinds of new products or new structures that might be available.
And so there will be some balls up in the air and we think that will be helpful to us.
So long-term the cash management business is very very viable and we think that our earnings power will be excellent here.
There will be all the normal things of competition of pricing packaging and all of that but this has only been so for four decades.
Okay that’s help and then may be one for Tom any thoughts on the trajectory as the comp line in the back half of the year just given where you stand today?  Yes so if we have said what do we think comp would be for the third quarter I think it will be about the same so when sales increase and investment performance goes so well.
Those numbers have possibilities of creeping up.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  And again I know it’s very early days and it is the 800 odd page document that they have put out.
I am just kind of curious what any of the impact of reform could be on some of the state pools and kind of the separate account assets.
I know they are in that 287 funds but I don’t know if there is any kind of impact that you think could be there as well? We don’t expect there to be impact on the LGIP see the state pools at this point.
I think that they will be subject to the reporting that is called for by non-40 act companies that are in the rule but that has to be specifically delineated and looked at but my suspicion is that they intended to capture them.
But that’s a reporting requirement.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And then I guess and I know this is probably hard to be precise on but there is always some number of clients I assume once the reform shapes out and you develop new products that just for a legal or PDUFA or whatever reason can’t have a floating rate product and I don’t know if you were to think of your kind of institutional clients is there any way of bucketing just what that client base would look like size wise if could just as we can have a footing with rate product?  Rob we just don’t know that right now.
I can give you some pointer fingers on the kind of a channel categories but once again it’s precisely because so many of them are on the books and then they have a mixed group of clients in there that have never been segmented by oh are you retail natural person are you one step removed from natural person are you two steps removed from natural person and what qualifies.
So for example we have 80 billion of prime money-market fund assets and a little right around 42 billion is in what we call wealth management and trust now a good substantial portion of that is going to be what might be called actual trust or what you would think of as personnel trust type business where you would quickly find a natural person.
Other of it is going to be corporate trust and what’s going to be in that bag well some of it will quality and some will not and some of it as you know is required only to go to a stable NAV product but we have not yet determined how much of that other than for me to be able to say that a substantial portion of that 42 looks like it will qualify as retail.
On the broker-dealer side we have got about 21 billion and on broker-dealer retail we think that the vast majority of that will qualify as retail.
And we have got 7 billion of non-U.S.
international so that sits us on category that depending on where they are and where they are invested they may not be affected if they stay in international funds they come to U.S.
funds then they get subject to the natural person rule.
Then we have the money that we invest from our funds into the funds and the odds are high that a mutual fund would not qualify as a natural person and that’s about just under 4 billion.
And then we have direct corporate and portal business of about 5.5 billion that looks like to us that it’s unlikely to qualify as retail.
So that adds up to about 80 billion but the numbers are not precise Rob in order to determine exactly how many of those clients can handle the floating NAV product because of either their own indenture or state law.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  And maybe a question on the equity business so talk just to put some color around and I apologize if you mentioned it upfront but some color around some of the sources of the strong sales in the business do you seeing that kind of from the is it across the board is there any one or two channels that are driving kind of most of the flows or sales?  It is definitely across the board but the leader in the pack is the broker-dealer.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Great that was all my questions thanks.
Okay good morning thank you very much for taking the questions.
Just staying on the money-market reform for a moment when you have talked to your clients I imagine that done so in anticipation of the rule working against you and you have thought about other products what’s the product efficacy and what I’m thinking about here is just the utility of separately managed accounts or private places as you mentioned.
I mean how were the economic for those products compared to your regular money-market fund assuming we were in a more normal rate backdrop?  In terms of the privately placed money-market funds where you would have to have qualified investors our suspensions are that it would be comparable at this point.
In terms of separately managed accounts traditionally they are lower in fees that if someone within a fund how many of the clients would actually want a institutional separate account is something that remains to be seen and as much work as you might do with clients ahead of time Bill clients really aren’t interested in determining whether they will go for an institutional separate account as long as they see the money-market fund right in front of them which they like and enjoy because of the diversification.
So that would be the situation there and there is another idea of floating around it doesn’t look all that viable now because of the rate environment which is the all 60 days and under prime fund may be you get a little spread on govies right now but certainly not what people would be used to but in a different rate environment that would work and its economics would be very comparable to the current fund.
So those are three of the principle ideas there are other ideas that are that you could come up with for example a selective fund that would only be for retirement accounts well what’s that going to look like well we have our capital preservation fund as an example of that kind of a structure now can we make it look like that well I don’t know that’s part of the work that we’re doing as we look ahead.
Okay.
That’s very helpful perspective.
Second question I have is as you mentioned that might be a bit more burden as you sort of go through some of the implementation particularly on the tax side is that something that you can pass I guess assuming rates have been higher than they are today is that something you might be able to pass along to a investor or is that something that you in response would have to absorb? Well it is something that would be a cost to the fund and to the investor and the marketplace will let us know whether we can pass that on or not.
Some of the things that are behind the curtain there bill are that when you have a fund that has “retail in it and institutional in it” then you has to more or less separate the fund.
And part of the 869 pages is a section where the SEC has said that they are going to be very open to issuing whatever kinds of exemptions are necessary in order to accomplish altering the structure of some of the funds in order to accomplish getting the right shareholders in the right kinds of funds so far as the SEC is concerned.
Now to the extent to which that impacts the indenture of the fund and/or state law remains to be seen but all of those things are first and foremost fund and thereby shareholder expenses and as I say the marketplace through competition and otherwise will and in the end it’s not unrelated to what goes on with rates as well over the future period will determine how much of that is actually impacts the funds and the fund shareholders.
So just a follow-up question on the potential substitute products it seems like you guys have offered separate accounts for a while at lower fees a lot of the institutional clients in money-market I guess could have migrated over and paid a lower fee if they wanted to.
So what is it about separate accounts that they haven’t wanted and what can you do to change that? Well that’s what I tried hint before Cynthia that they -- what they really like is being a small part of a big money-market fund and as long as that existed that’s where they were going.
In effect what a separate account in a money-market fund is it is a giant redemption in kind odd initial at the beginning.
And they would prefer to be a small part of the big machinery.
However you can get the $1 net asset value experience to them in the separate account.
So it’s just going to be deciding what is the minimum amount that a client has to have in order to make that efficacious and then are they are some of those clients and they will be some who do it willing to go into that kind of a structure.
So it will just be the explanation of it and some of them will be willing to trade out the diversification and being in part of a larger pool in return for maintaining the $1 net asset value.
Okay.
And if you look at your current AUM affected by the floating NAVs what proportion is held by qualified investors would everybody be eligible for a separate account or private replacement or there are just some bits here and there that would fall out not really have a product for them? There are definite gaps in other words there are some that would qualify as qualified but that’s a pretty big number.
There are some who would not be affected because they will in affect be retail as I discussed some of our actual trust business will be retail but there are gaps in between where the client is not large enough to be qualified and not -- and doesn’t have a loud enough pulse to qualify for being a natural person.
So there are again how much of our assets are in those gaps we do not know right now.
And that’s where the answer to the question of is a variable net asset value product at all viable and that remains to be seen.
Okay.
And then just a question on fee waivers and I am sorry if I missed this but it sounded like they were going to get a little worst this quarter and in spite of the asset level going down so I am wondering is that a function of the environment somehow or are you reacting to the competitive pressure and waiving a little more I couldn’t tell what the driver was for that? Yes it is rates look we are not reacting to any other pressure or waiving more.
It’s really where the rates are.
And specifically Cynthia it would be the bill rates came in lower in Q2 the short bills and we see them staying at those lower levels at least in the very near-term.
I just have one on the change in the non-conforming limit on government funds to 0.5% from 20%.
Curious if you think that will materially impact the ability of those funds not just for you for anyone to generate a competitive yield and may be if you could give us some historical context for what percentage of your government funds overtime has been in non-conforming securities? Debbie? That is in fact if you look at the prospectuses of many of our products although the name would have allowed us to be 20% of the product in non-conforming non-government product we have never taken advantage of that nor have we my perspective on taking any other funds ever been allowed to.
If you look sometimes they have been some reported misnomers if you will that in the day when various CDs where guaranteed from a government perspective.
Government money funds that goes that is actually followed by the government security during that time period.
There was also a student loan after that security program that was guaranteed from a government perspective that was held in a lot of government funds that was looked at it being non-government in nature but in fact it really was.
Very void demand that often times that are banks like the Federal loan bank are looked at as being non-conforming but in fact they are guaranteed so what has been reported in many instances for our funds as well as for others in the industry as being non-conforming or a non-government has actually been incorrect.
We tried to point that out in the context of our response back to get request on this particular subject and so that’s really the 99.5% on a current product basis it’s something that is no change in how we operate on a day-to-day basis.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Marc Irrizary with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
I think if we look at just how much the assets in prime come down already I think you are at 110 million down to 80 million and I know there’s lot of different dynamics but can you give a sense of the prime money-market funds and your clients’ willingness to shift just into government any sort of update there? And then it’s a follow-up thanks.
In terms of the shift obviously these clients have had the ability to shift at any day at any time for any reason or for no reason and have not done so.
And therefore they are looking for not only the daily liquidity in-part but also the spread between the government funds and the prime funds.
So they are not really wanting to shift and now they have to make a tough decision go for some other product ultra-short something like that which violets the $1 net asset value or go for the lower yield.
And this as I said before our client base is not really wanted to face that in terms of making a choice that they didn’t currently have to make and one they are going to have to make right now anyway obviously they have to make it soon.
So we are shall we say evolving the decisions as their clients look and decant the rule and figure out where they want to come out on the answer to that question and once again it’s very difficult for us to peel back those clients and figure out how many or to what extent they will move into govies or into one of our private funds or into a separate account or into a collective fund or into a bank instrument it’s just remains to be seen.
Okay and then just I guess in… Just to comment Marc on the prime I mean what you have seen certainly in the industry you saw what the ICI categorizes as institutional ramped up by over 60 billion over the second half of ’13 and now that has essentially reversed over the first half of ’14 and retail the retail category under ICI has had accelerated outflows from prime as well.
And you have got usual suspects there the low rate environment uses of cash for taxes and other things it’s certainly been an industry phenomenon.
Okay and then just in terms of some of the solutions that in new products and alternatives that are available or will be potentially available how much I don’t know if you want to call it product development R&amp;D spending or just P&amp;L has been sort of invested in the ideas and sort of all the now that the reform is in place I would presume that mostly ideas that could capture some of those assets are coming out of prime are sort of in place already? Thanks.
Well a lot of the people of product development who have been working earnestly on commentary and improvements to the proposals at the SEC has made have been thinking about and initializing work on various new products that now have been released to go whole hog on the new products.
So we are not looking to add new people or new resources to that but to shift from one effort to another.
So once again it’s hard for me to internally characterize how much the cost of the new product arrangements will be.
I will say this that we were already underway with a internal review of the entire money-market fund line up just to take a look at it and see what should be done and what should be changed in any event.
So right now that just more or less accelerates it and also focuses it on taking care of the client so that we do the best we can to leave no client behind.
Okay and then just one more on a different topic your equity business now 50 billion can you just remind us where does sort what is growing that business inorganically sort of fit into the equation how are you thinking about acquisitions to grow even further here from the 50 billion and maybe an update on your capital priorities?  Well I will talk about the intent here is overwhelmingly to grow organically and that’s why I spend all the time talking about the performance and the products the names of the products and things like that and if you look at what has matured this is what we called maybe seven or eight years ago the power of income and these were funds like capital income equity income and strategic value dividend.
And so now those products are all maturing and we talk about and in terms of being on their road to $5 billion funds.
So that has worked out well so then you say what’s heading into the future well if you look at the strategic value dividend fund as a outcomes based product i.e.
a 5% in terms of a dividend and then an increase of 5% in the rate of dividends of the holdings that’s an outcome.
Well the alternatives section that we have put together here led currently by the managed volatility fund which I mentioned is one of the things we think is next on the agenda because it analyzes the risk for various activities and obviously getting these products into liquid form strengthens them so that’s where we are looking for another thing organic growth out into the future.
But we would always be available to add by acquisition to various of our already successful portfolios on the capital side Tom?  Right and to finish up on the M&amp;A side and to the portfolios is roll ups and we have a team that is out there trying to add to our existing funds and we have bids out there and letters out there and we will get some success there.
The three choices that we four choices that we have what are we going to do with our capital M&amp;A is one of course internally support the growth of the company is another one and dividends and share buybacks are the other two we have always said our first choice given our disciplines and returns that we have seen in our M&amp;A is to spend as much money as we can there but the following our disciplines has allowed us to spend all the money there.
Dividends have been a excellent return to our shareholders and we look at that on a total return basis and so we continue and expect to continue to reward our shareholders or share the earnings of the company which they deserve with the shareholders share buyback it’s been you know the amount that we have done for a number of years.
So we will really at that every quarter and models and at where we think the company is going to grow and is noteworthy to buy shares as dividends make acquisitions.
Great thanks.
Yes thanks for taking my question guys.
When we think about what’s going to happen with the prime funds as we move forward here and I mean I appreciate the effort to try and find alternative products for clients try developing that can basically replace what they have now.
But let’s assume that it’s hard to do that and investors have to ship in the government sort of products would that not have a detrimental impact on -- the fee waivers because my understanding is that most of the fee waivers that you guys are issuing are on government agency treasury funds.
So if we have a mix shift in that direction wouldn’t that be a negative in sort of this with our low interest rate environment? Greggory it’s really in large part would depend on the timing of that hypothetical shift.
With a two year advancing period you really would have to ask the question on what’s the rate would be in two years and by most forecast we would begin to see see some recovery in the rates and you would now have the situation that you have today.
It would Debbie could comment on the affect of large portion of prime assets shifting into the government market but it would not be good in today’s environment.
In today’s environment there is certainly not enough from a product perspective to accommodate everything in a government sense.
Having said that the ability for the powers are to put some of their assets back out into the system which as to some degree on a repo basis that this qualifier government asset it’s helpful along those lines that is also so the shift into government money funds has been to some degree what we were saying before contribute towards which is a decline in fee rates when you got the similar to supply more demand obviously you’ve got yields going down.
So it would not be an easy shift.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And the just kind of follow-up on the same issue if we think about flows as we move forward my sense is that you can talk with your client it doesn’t seem like as it’s going to be rush to the exists for this particular type of funds I mean the two year implementation helps with that the how effective are they been to you’re finding alternative products for them.
And is there reluctant on this part to take with this money in the bank deposits? Well they would much prefer where they are and therefore we will get first swing at the pitch in my opinion that the consensus I get out of listening to that conference call yesterday and the power plus of questions that Debbie refer to is that they are most enthusiastic to hear what kinds of thing we can structure in order to solve their cash management needs.
However the extent to which banks may be willing to bid the money and it affect $1 net asset value and pay a given yield will be attractive to some of their clients.
But overwhelmingly the first sense you said is true that we don’t see any evidence of anything like a rush to exist or anything like that.
This is Ryan Sullivan coming in for Craig Siegenthaler.
Thanks for taking my question.
With regards to the distribution line in a rising rate environment how do you think your relationships with some of the larger distributors could be affected and if there possibility that they could ask for more economics in the relationship.
Thank you.
Well is it possibility they could ask for more money.
Yes.
I mean this has never not been the case.
But I will let Tom give you more specific answer.
Well more specific is yes we have a whole process customers review their situations with us and in terms of affecting how we see the waivers that usually ends up coming in other places.
So in terms of waivers recovery types of things that comes back but if we have arrangements with customers that change the distribution then we pay them and it’s not in the waiver just a different type of payment that’s why we list through when I say one of the factors with and basis points going up and that’s getting back 45% we list in there all the providers and one of this changes in distribution fee arrangement with third party and it is forever part of our life.
I don’t know if Ray do you want to add anything? No I would it has been a long-term trend and we should expect it to continue.
And just a quick follow-up so just from a more the longer term perspective here can you give the perspective on how you see operating margins currently in the future versus the current levels? Yes.
So operating margin has been depressed and they were particularly more depressed when the waiver situation for the lower basis point because we end up sharing more and more and if rates go up so that depression won’t be as bad.
We have been managing the expenses if you could look at the line items there how many were down on the expense category and how many are up and so we are very attentive to that and doing a pretty good job we actually had margin expansion in Q2 versus Q1 which it actually is a pretty commendable around here in terms of all the people at the company participating and realizing what’s going on and controlling expenses.
Great thank you very much guys I appreciate it.
Hey guys good morning thanks for taking question.
Just in your comment you mentioned a number of strong performing funds both on the equity and fixed income side.
Can you talk to sort of the fee rates in the margins in that new business you are winning I know that the fee rate went up slightly quarter-on-quarter so just curious as to what the main drivers are going to be going forward and I want to make sure not anything more than just a mix shift towards the equity? Thanks.
Tom it’s Ray the fee rates would obviously adding our equity business would enhance a fee rate and you point out within a bid in that the product that we mentioned would tend to have kind of average fee levels if you are looking at kind of industry mutual fund averages for equity funds.
The separately managed accounts have lower fees and we have had substantial growth there so they are not as added to the fee rate but on an always basis the equity certainly controlling equity assets it is helpful to the overall blended fee rates.
Great yes thank you.
And then secondarily so if we look at the overall level of growth fixed income sales it’s close to little bit in 2Q redemptions were country level so anything I mean you guys have some strong points product there is other could you maybe highlight for us any product that you think has been performing very well and you are little bit surprised that the demand for just hasn’t been there anything in particularly you can color out there? Thanks.
The one that comes to mind there would be high yield where we have very-very strong products than we have had multiple quarters of robust sales and net sales we had very solid sales and high yield in the second quarter and solidly positive flows but both would have been lower than the several couple of quarters before that and that continue to into Q4.
Still very attractive but and I think you can see that the industry numbers as well that has core up a little.
Alright great thank you.
Well that will conclude our call and we thank you for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors Third Quarter 2014 Analyst Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ray Hanley President of Federated Investors.
Thank you Mr.
Hanley.
You may now begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today’s call will be Chris Donahue Federated’s President and CEO and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer and joining us for the Q&amp;A is Debbie Cunningham who is the Chief Investment Officer for Federated Money Markets.
Let me say that during today’s call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated’s actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it to Chris.
Thank you and good morning.
I will briefly review Federated’s business performance and then Tom will comment on our financial results.
I will begin by reviewing another strong quarter for our equities business.
Federated was able to navigate challenging markets well in the third quarter posting solid equity sales growth and performance results.
Our equity fund organic growth rate of 16% for the third quarter annualized was among the best in the industry.
Based on strategic insights data our third quarter equity funded net flows ranked in the top 2% of the industry using annualized growth rates from the third quarter data Federated equity fund net growth rate ranked 7th for firms with equity assets of $5 billion or more.
That means the 7th out of a 119 firms.
On a year-to-date basis our equity funds have produced $2.8 billion in net flows.
Equity’s separate account net sales are up 10% for the same timeframe.
Strong equity results in 2014 reflect many years of focus and investment in this area.
Success factors include solid investment performance effective and growing distribution a wide range of well-developed products in areas of investor interest and high quality marketing and customer service efforts.
Looking at overall equity performance more than half of our strategies were in the top quartile for the trailing three years at quarter end while nearly three-fourths were in the top half for the same period.
Eight of our strategies or over 30% are in the top decile on a trailing three year basis at quarter end.
Looking at the trailing one year half of our strategies are in the top-quartile and nearly 70% are above median.
On the trailing three year basis the Kaufmann Large Cap Fund and the MDT Stock Value Fund are both in the top 1% of their respective categories.
The International Leaders Fund is in the top 2% of foreign large land category and our capital income fund is in the top decile among conservative allocation funds.
We achieved solid sales results with 16 funds in multiple categories producing positive net sales in the third quarter.
The Strategic Value Dividend Fund continues to be our top selling product.
The International Strategic Value Dividend fund also have solid net sales in the third quarter.
I’d like to highlight some other funds that have grown substantially over the last couple of years.
Two years ago the capital income international leaders and Kaufmann Large Capital fund together had assets of $1.3 billion.
They have grown to nearly $6 billion again together at the end of the quarter and are well positioned for further growth.
Our innovative Muni and Stock Advantage Funds just crossed $1 billion in assets this week up from about $500 million two years ago.
Equity separate account net sales were solidly positive.
Growth in this area was again led by the domestic and International Strategic Value Dividend strategies in our SMA product line.
The SMA business continues to be an excellent area of growth.
Total SMA assets were nearly $15 billion at quarter end with most of this in equity.
Total SMA assets are up 31% from the last year and are more than doubled over the past three years.
Early Q4 equity fund net sales are approximately $200 million led by these same products.
Now turning to fixed income Q3 net fund sales of $238 million compared favorably to the outflows of $615 million in the second quarter.
Separate accounts just about breakeven for net sales and improved substantially from the prior quarter.
Our total return bond funds net bond fund inflows the ultra-short Bond Fund and Muni ultra-short Fund also produced solid inflows.
We are seeing an uptick in interest in sales in our total return bond fund from investors interested in upper left risk profile.
This is an approach that seeks risk adjusted returns while minimizing tracking error relative to the benchmark.
Our approach emphasizes transparency risk controls and a team structure based on our [four alpha pods] duration – yield curve strategy sector allocation and security selection.
This approach resonates with fiduciaries and intermediaries and institutions.
In fact this week we were selected by a consultant as they recommended total return strategy option for their clients.
As a result we expect to see several hundred million dollars in new assets move into our fund product over the next couple of months.
At quarter end we had six fixed income strategies with top quartile three year records including High Yield Short-Intermediate total return bond and Short-Intermediate Duration Muni.
Fixed income fund flows are positive early in the fourth quarter led by Total Return Bond Fund floating rate strategic income and capital preservation fund.
Now looking at money markets period end fund assets increased by about $3 billion and average money market fund assets decreased by about $8 million from the prior quarter.
Our market share at quarter end was approximately 8.3% about the same as at the end of the prior quarter.
Money market separate account assets were down reflecting seasonality.
We of course are working on various projects related to the SEC rules that were issued in July.
We expect to have products in place to meet the needs of all of our money fund clients.
These are likely to include prime and Muni money market funds modified to meet the new requirements government money funds separate accounts and offshore money funds.
We are also working on developing privately placed funds that will likely mirror existing Federated money-market funds to serve the needs of groups of qualified investors unable to use the money funds that have been modified by the new rule.
As we have discussed the new rules are subject to a lengthy implementation period.
The floating NAV requirement for institutional prime and Muni funds takes effect in October of 2016.
Taking a look now at our most recent asset totals as of October 22nd.
Managed assets were approximately $349 billion including $243 billion in money markets $49 billion in equities and $58 billion in fixed income including liquidation portfolios.
Money market mutual fund assets stand at about $213 billion.
October average money fund assets are running at about $212 billion.
Now looking at distribution in the broker dealer channel we continue to leverage our investments in additional wholesalers and related resources.
We are seeing good progress from newer wholesalers increasing their production levels and expect further growth as additional seasoning occurs and we add a few more reps.
We continue to expand distribution for SMAs with the international strategic value dividend strategy added to two major platforms in the third quarter.
We expect two more additions in the fourth quarter.
In the wealth management and trust channel we are seeing considerable new business and interest in our total return bond strategy.
In addition we won a $500 million active cash separate account in this channel in Q3 that has already funded here in Q4.
In the institutional channel we won a $650 million high yield separate account that is expected to fund this quarter and we expect to add a couple of more separate accounts in Q4.
The separate account will total approximately $1.2 trillion of anticipated new assets in the fourth quarter.
Now going in the other direction we were informed by a client that they will be making a manager change for a small cap equity portfolio of approximately $780 million in November.
We continue to have success at expanding retirement channel distribution with the international leaders capital income and Kaufmann Large Cap strategy added to the model which were added to [notable] programs in the third quarter.
We have also seen the addition of Clover and MDT products to various retirement platforms.
RFP activity remains high with interest in Kaufmann Clover MDT strategic value and international strategies for equity and high yields short duration [core brand] and trade finance for fixed income.
Regarding international channels we added sales resources this year to accelerate growth we have seen in Canada for both retail and institutional markets.
We hired an institutional salesperson in the second quarter and filled an internal sales position and we are seeing good early stage institutional interest in RFP activity from our efforts with RJ which is Raymond James Delta in Chile.
In Asia-Pac we have closed the small office we opened in 2012.
We are maintaining our licenses and registrations and continue to be receptive to deals that would enable us to penetrate this region.
We also continue to seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our activities in Europe.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Revenue was up from both the prior quarter and from Q3 2013 as equity related revenue growth more than offset lower money market revenue.
The growth from the prior quarter included the impact of an additional day.
Equities comprised 46% of our Q3 revenues the highest percentage among the various asset classes and combined equity and fixed income revenues were just above 70% of our Q3 total revenues.
Operating expenses increased from the prior quarter due mainly to higher distribution expense from an additional day in the quarter and higher equity assets offset by lower money market fund average assets.
The increase in office and occupancy was due to a lease termination.
The increase from Q3 2013 was driven by higher compensation expense reflecting higher sales and strong investment results.
The operating margin increased to 28% compared to both the prior quarter and Q3 2013 as we continue across the funds to successfully manage expenses while investing for growth.
Money Fund minimum yield waivers of 30 million were about the same as the prior quarter and Q3 2013.
Based on current assets and current rates the impact of these waivers to pretax income in Q4 will be about the same.
Looking forward and holding all other variables constant we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 45% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 17%.
Multiple factors impact waiver levels and we expect these factors and their impact to vary.
These factors include changes in fund assets available yields for investments action by regulators changes in the expense level of the funds changes in the mix of customer assets changes in distribution fee arrangements with third parties Federated’s willingness to continue to seek waivers and changes in the extent to which the impact of the fee waivers is shared by third parties.
Non-operating income decreased from the prior quarter and from Q3 2013 due to lower gains on investments including consolidated products partially offset by lower debt expense from the refinance of our long-term credit facility and from lower debt expense or lower debt balances.
The Q3 effective tax rate was 37.3% and reflected certain tax state tax refunds.
We expect to be effective rate going forward to be about 38%.
Looking at our balance sheet cash and investments totaled $352 million at quarter end of which about $271 million is available to us.
We would now like to open the call up for your questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O’Neill.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys good morning.
Chris I know it’s still early but just as you continue to work on putting together products to retain institutional prime money market fund assets that you might be at risk down the road just any color or updates on sort of the discussions you’re having with clients in terms of their thinking and potential receptivity to some of these sort of alternate vehicles if you are.
The LCR component has added a lot of color to our discussions with our bigger clients because the LCRs are causing our bank clients to reevaluate the cash on their balance sheet and evaluate which clients are now deemed good and which clients are now deemed to need a warm and loving home like Federated.
And so that has added another whole dimension to it that it effect accelerates their decision process as to what to do.
Now of course as I mentioned since the implementation of the new rules the two year period started last week.
There is a lot of good use of institutional prime funds for a substantial part of that time.
So that has added a lot to it.
In terms of where I think you were going which was which products are leading and how we look at it it is perhaps the 60 day fund has inched ahead of the private funds [advances] for people who don’t quality to stay in the existing funds the separate accounts are not having as big a reception as we thought they might get and the variable net asset value fund as per the rule we still don’t think has a lot of leg.
So that would be a little bit of an update on how those products are doing and the ebb and flow of who is ahead.
Great that’s helpful.
And then just be curious to get your take on sort of what you are seeing in terms of the M&amp;A landscape these days in terms of deal flow was maybe sort of pricing trends particularly as it relates to firms that might be more in demand like international equity or alternative funds.
Okay.
On the international side pricing and demand is – pricing is up and demand is up.
So that’s a top thing we’re still over it as Chris mentioned to go over and we’re looking for things and then in discussions.
But again pricing seems to be the tougher than the ebbs and been flows of what’s going on.
Back over here in the States the money fund we’re still in discussion on the money fund world in terms of people looking and whether they’re gone actually stay in business and that just will conclude we think will just continue.
And in terms of roll ups we’re still active there as we’ve done one deal this year so far and we’re in discussions with a number of others.
We’ll see what happens.
Okay and then just one more for you Tom if I may just any color on sort of the ins and out in terms of the comp line this quarter as it relates to any shifts in bonus accrual and then any outlook going forward as we look out to the fourth quarter and beyond? Yeah the comp line is pretty similar to last quarter but there were changes in the mix there as the sales bumped up and we had some early Q4 sales in fixed income as we mentioned.
So if I had to give a forecast on the comp line I would say it will be somewhere around the same as Q3 but if sales jump again we will have to bump that up and then we go through and look on the investment management side and performance and that can change people get paid on one three and five years and quarters go out and new quarter comes in.
It could go either way so that’s why I just stick with around where it was in Q3.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Hey.
First can you talk about the availability of short-term paper in the market giving shrinking repo and CP balances and how does this impact the money fund business going forward? Debbie.
Sure Ken this is Debbie Cunningham.
We have seen definitely shrinkage over the course of the last six years generally speaking from a CP perspective while the CD side of the equation has grown.
As Chris has mentioned with various components of banking regulation incenting banks now to probably shut down or diminish how much they have out there from a deposits perspective we would expect that would be at least not as strong a growth going forward and probably shrinking to a degree also.
Repo market very similar as you had mentioned at some point in the wages and tax it was probably more than 3.5 times the size that it is today.
Having said that I think where we are seeing some growth has come from basic [inaudible] side of the equation better from a corporate perspective as you well know Money Market Funds traditionally have been concentrated from an industry perspective in the financial sector and I think we are becoming a little bit more diverse because of some of the growth in the non-finance corporate sector of the marketplace.
And when you look at the banking side of the equation structured deposits are definitely much less punitive from an LPR perspective and therefore those have been growing and the usage of those I think will continue to be a positive.
What we look for also is basically with a growing economy comes a growing need for capital and that working capital is generally funded through the CP marketplace.
So we think you know a lot of the shrinkage that occurred over the course of the last five or six years in the CP marketplace has come because of structures that from an ABCP perspective are no longer palatable or useful or considered appropriate for Money Market Fund.
Those are never going to come back.
When you look at the general trends of working capital financing we have seen a growth in those types of areas from a CP issue and perspective and we think that to some degree perhaps they will continue to grow at an even stronger pace going forward because of some of the banking incentives where the bank holding company generally is funding through the CP market while the bank is funding through the deposit market and there is a less – there is less punishment if you will from a holding company’s perspective than there is when the bank itself is issuing the deposits for some of the new regulations that are coming on.
So we think that shift will be something that we see going forward.
Suffice it to say it’s a lot more difficult today than it was three or four years ago to find appropriate coverage from a supply perspective on a day to day basis.
Having said that there are new issuers in the marketplace on a somewhat regular basis.
We are using a lot more from what I call a semi-sovereign basis of foreign entities so rather just foreign banks we’re using the semi-sovereigns which are not the countries themselves but generally entities within the countries that they are guaranteeing who also need short term financing.
We recently approved the country of Finland and the largest Finish Bank out there.
So that increased a little bit of supply.
So there are areas of growth but generally speaking it’s one that you have kind of to look under quite a few rocks to find the gold that lays under there.
Great thank you.
Separately also on money market funds you and we have talked about market share losses in and you had called out that market share with about even or I think it technically fell a little bit I noticed that you raised yields your prime obligation firm you raised two to three points but you absorbed that through increases in your fee labors.
And I guess I want to understand why did you do that.
It seems like it would be done for competitive reasons and are you at the point where you want to support the market share and is this strategy to kind of raise yields to waive more fees to do that so any help there would be great.
So first of all on the market share our stack card is showing its down below 8.3.
Maybe there are some other statistics that you’re working on.
And we have not done what you’re saying.
We’ve done at least to the best of my knowledge or anybody here at the table.
So I don’t know exactly what you’re picking up in terms of yield and increased waivers the way you’ve described it.
I would say that overall as part of the whole effort of we looking at the money market offerings that we’re doing for what we were talking about before we’re also looking at the whole structure of the product especially on the government side to see how things would shake out in the future because in light of that last question that you were going over with Debbie those are going to be a lot more interesting government funds is one of the main receivers of money so there is going to be more competition there.
So that’s another thing we’re looking at.
I might add too that maybe it’s the composition of the waivers to some degree from a client fund perspective we’ve been able to eke out maybe another basis point or two on a gross yield basis which gets the net yield to the client a basis point or two higher over the quarter.
On the other side of the equation however as Chris is mentioning from a government fund perspective particularly one of our largest treasury Omni-product is very very difficult in the environment that we’ve been in to eke out anything more than four or five basis points and so the waivers have increased on that type of a product.
So it perhaps it maybe the mix that has changed to some degree.
Ken it’s Ray.
I’ll just – another thing in the numbers you talked about – if I look at the gross yields of that fund prime obligation fund over ‘14 2014 it average in the first part of the year about just under 22.5% basis points.
Now they are just over or right around 23 basis points.
So you’re going to get some rounding in there that might look like some things happening that isn’t.
I’ll take it offline.
I was just curious to like given the share shifts I thought it was interesting but thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Surinder Thind of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Just a little bit more on the money market reform just kind of on your comments about the floating rate products.
How far down the path of reform do you kind of have to be to know even if they are viable as a group? I mean you kind to put it on the funding in to place you got to build the products and then do you just kind of hope somewhat show up to the dance? Well my guess would be as it was at the beginning and I haven’t changed it that those kinds of funds aren’t going to be viable at all and the more likely thing that we’re going to do is use the existing funds that we have and have them either be for retail or have them be 60 day funds and whether or not any of them will be variable net asset value money funds reason why people could differ and you are not certain of that now but I would be inclined to doubt it.
And if you don’t have a bunch of assets in this so called floating net asset value money market fund then you got to do something in order to get enough of assets in there to make it a viable product by itself.
I would add too and this is just over the course of maybe the last three months since the regulatory certainly has come to fruition we have been doing a series of about 20 different road shows across the country major cities across the country attended generally by 40 to 50 clients in each location and I would say that one of the first ones was in late July and we mentioned the variable net asset value product from an institutional prime or an institutional municipal perspective there was nobody in the room that raised their hands and had any interest in that type of a product.
However we just did one to be kept on Monday of this week where I would say out of a group that had maybe 10 tables of one person at every table had raised their hand that they still would have an interest in the product even with the variable net asset value component.
So I think there is become a little bit more of potential acceptance to what might come to fruition.
Again I think what has to be brought forth to them is the volatility that they will see.
Certainly we have been providing as well as others in the industry have been providing the daily NAVs as they are calculated out to the fourth decimal points since 2013 now.
However it’s been a pretty benign period of time and when you look at it in the context of a two digit NAV versus a four digit NAV historically two digits was able to withstand over 300 basis points of change from an interest rate perspective instantaneously and not be impacted from a price.
On a four digit basis translate that down to 3 to 3.5 basis which happens in a rising rate environment or declining rate environment almost every single day.
So there has to be a lot of education I think from a client perspective but there does seem to be at least a few more hands in the room that are going up when they say – when we ask the question might there be an interest at some point.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then maybe switching gears a little bit over to the fixed income side it seems like there is some good demand out there for your current product set.
How do you think demand kind of holds up or the product positioning in when rates do begin to rise? We think we are well situated for that.
That’s been one of the themes of when we talk about the positioning on the performance and risk charts of being upper left that’s what we are getting at and that’s part of the theme that customers are looking at staying in fixed income that yet staying short enough where if rates do rise they don’t get caught.
And this kind of thought process is inside a lot of the workings of any of those portfolios.
So we think we are in pretty good shape on that.
What really drives the future of flows on the fixed income side the individual performance products and staying with the approach so that you end up with a consistent type performance profile? So that’s how you do it.
You are dedicated to those alpha pods that I talked about then are in for the long haul and yes there is a lot of blocking and tackling but that seems to be the best way to set yourself up for the future.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then one final kind of quick take there seems to be a lot of talk around like unconstrained products and generally movement in that direction.
What do you think is the staying power of something like that? Is it just more being driven by the fact that we are ultimately probably going to be entering a rising rate environment? I think that – we’re certainly part of it.
But I think we see a huge movement you put your finger on it towards the unconstrained go anywhere type product and there have been a lot of major flows into that and we have products that are geared towards that.
And it also hints at the liquid alternative space as well where you are now analyzing the risk of the various enterprises you are looking at not just sticking to a [inaudible] although we offer those products as well.
And I think there is a lot of staying power to that kind of investing go anywhere type approach but it’s going to require a consistency of performance across various cycles and moves and investors are gone be very attentive to how that performance is going and changing marketplaces.
Okay.
That’s it from me.
Thanks.
Our next question is from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
With the few [inaudible] netting to $0.18 per quarter today can you share your view if that area will be able to recover this full amount and rate sensing normalize or do you think some of your distribution partners could seek greater economies or economics in their relationship and yeah  this would be for distributors where the money market sit on their platform.
Yeah Craig that’s why we’ve read – that I read have long paragraph about the factors that affect the waivers.
Absolutely customers will get back to us saying hey you’ve been able to – not that I want give them their presentation but you’ve been able to manage all this at such a lower fee realization are continuing even though the rates are up.
We were not interested in that and not earning your management fee for so many years is not fun it’s not fun on our margin it’s not fun on the makes growth tougher makes investing for growth tougher all these things makes our earnings much more difficult.
But it’s a competitive world and we’re going to have to deal with it.
So we will see what happens.
Now our customers have maintained their relationships with us all through this and as Chris was talking about this he talked about the 40 years of people coming in and trying to grab share by reducing their fees and we’ve – so we’ll deal with that in the future and we think we will do well in the – in that.
And Tom just want to follow up here.
If the economy declines how would the geography of the impact flow through between management fee distribution revenue and distribution expense? Well we’ve had a thought process of keeping the lights on.
So we’re getting some version of service basis points while we’re not getting the management fee and our kind of a philosophy that we say look we have to deal with turning the lights on and make everything work and we’ve been waving the management fee.
So we would expect to continue that and if there are challenges that will probably come in the management fee.
Craig you’d also see that reflected in the distribution expense to your point about what would happen from the cost and distribution through [inaudible].
You would see in that case as you’ve seen really a multi-year trend an increase in the distribution expense relative to the asset base without the waivers.
So right the management fee would probably go down and the distribution expense could go up but distribution revenue would be stable if there are any kind of net economic concessions.
Yes.
Okay thanks for clarifying.
Thank you guys.
The next question is from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Please go ahead with your question.
Okay good morning Thank you very much for taking the question.
Just staying on the margins for a second if I look at your margin and adding backlog if you weigh dynamics over the last seven or eight quarters you are sort of locked around 28% to 29% obviously you had some equity flows coming into fixed income flow you had some money market attrition.
How you think about the margin on a perspective basis if you would assume fee waivers were to recover to some extent? Well.
So we try not to predict and guess what margin is gone be and we put in a – in our program in the company – well not a program but an effort to make sure we are properly managing expense while continuing to invest in various areas of the growth and so what that means is we’ve a lot of things trying to keep expenses down and the switch over to – over the last year to positive net flows in – bigger positive net flows in the equity side will help along the way.
But trying to predict what’s going to happen is not something that we are going to do Bill.
I have one more question there I am sorry to belabor the point if you do – if rates were at some point to go forward if things were more of a ‘15-’16 events then anything in the near term would you unlock some spending such that it’s not a straight add back of the fee waiver just think about normalized earnings power? We were investing where we think we need to be investing so it’s not like we are holding back anywhere.
The places we have held back are employees’ compensation although we can’t deal with that in the sales and the investment management because we have programs going on there.
So I don’t – we are holding back on doing anything and I am trying to predict what’s going to happen again that’s why I list all the factors in there to say we don’t know what’s going to happen and we are trying to maintain a margin that allows us to continue to invest.
Okay thank you.
And just one follow-up question Chris you mentioned you had some good success on the institutional pipeline in terms of fixed income.
You have about $1 billion and you mentioned small cap fund going out for about $79 million.
Can you talk maybe – give more sense the details about what’s driving the respective growth and what are the characteristics specifically that the components you are looking at.
You mentioned [inaudible] platform et cetera maybe that the – part of that these days.
I know on the small cap side this is sort of one off and one of the reasons for the falling in on any of the assets at risk that follow behind that.
That is a definite one off to answer the last question first.
And the performance of that mandate is very strong in any event that was a change in style type thing by one particular client.
So that is a one-off.
On overall on the institutional side the plus billion that will be coming in it’s a wide variety of mandate after a very very good RFP type activity and with many different as I said major – now of course the total return space has been accelerated because of changes in the marketplace and of course we are in a good position to be able to respond to some of these requests and have done so already and over the last couple of weeks this has been a very good source of growth for that mandate for total return bond fund.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Eric Berg of RBC.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks very much.
Just one sort of broad question about your strategy in Muni Fund.
You have mentioned that in your sort of informal pooling of investors they seem to be more responsive to the 60 day bonds and less responsive to the separate account and another point you talked about I think Chris talked about modifying the 60 day funds and emphasizing retail.
So I am just trying to sort of organize all this in my mind and answer the question assuming we get to two years from now if loading NAV on the institutional prime and institutional municipal money market funds what is your best sense at this point as to the most likely offerings that you will be – mostly likely products that you will offering in the money fund area of the institution as basis for holding NAV as well as retail investors? My answer to that at this point is that I think the most likely thing is there will 60 day fund there will be government fund there will be private fund although there is some things have to be worked out there and then there will be retail.
And as I mentioned on this call before you can’t use any definition of retail that you had in your head before you have to have a new definition of retail.
It’s now a word of art or a word of legal or a word that split in quotes because there are many trust type accounts that can be retailed.
So there is no doubt that we will be offering our retail funds.
Then hanging in the balances whether we will have any of these floating NAV institutional prime funds I am still doubtful despite hand raising but we have healthy disputations about this as we should as we’re in the water boarding stage of our activities.
So that would be my best guess as to what we will see.
And I think with each of those product lines we would be offering the triple A rated version as well as the non or single A rated version for those customers that needs the rating aspects of it.
Are you saying in other words so this will complete my questions.
Are you seeing in other words that over the most part realizing that this is still a very fluid situation and that definitions are changing as Chris just emphasized are you saying that a general statements then that you anticipate that the 60 day [decrement] in private funds will replace what is currently the institutional prime and municipal money fund.
Our goal is to have a warm and loving home for all of our client and even more money that’s being shaken loose out of the system through the LCR effort so that if you press me I would say that after a lull in the action that we will back on the growth path on the money market fund assets as we come to the end of the two year period.
All right thank you very much.
That clarified things.
The next question comes from the line of Tom Whitehead with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys good morning.
So a lot of mine have been answered but I wanted to come back to fixed income quickly.
You mentioned you saw a little bit of pickup in the total return related to the dislocation that’s out there in the asset promotion from the news of Pimco.
Couple of questions there have you seen any other products seeing greater demand or are you stepping up your efforts and really across this space and more broadly can you talk at a level of success you had given what’s going on.
We are stepping up our efforts in terms of underscoring the kinds of products that we’ve been offering for a long time.
So we are enhancing a little bit of ad budget here and there and Ray has a comment a little further.
Tom just in terms of particular areas and we mentioned total return bonds we have – we talked about adding high yield mandate high yields been a multi-year really multi decade strong performer for us.
And so we continue to see institutional interest there in the funds flow as of the early part of the fourth quarter and a return to positive territory.
We talked earlier about our floating rate products.
There’s considerable interest in that as well.
Great and then I know you’ve touched on M&amp;A earlier but just maybe to give us a broader update on your capital priorities [inaudible] versus buyback plus M&amp;A and what the potential could be for a special this year? Well specials are never off the table but they are not currently on the table.
And as you look at our chart our pie chart you will see that overtime the approach we’ve had has been shall we say opportunistic and we try to evaluate it as being a shareholder friendly operation.
We are very interested in returning monies to shareholder and doing the best thing with the money for shareholders we can think of.
As we mentioned on this call many times the highest and best use in our view are acquisitions that meet our criteria.
We like the dividend and we are active on share purchase.
So I know that doesn’t give you a whole lot of directions to which one of those we’re going to jump on the most.
But that’s about as good as we can give you at this point.
Understood.
Thanks for taking my question.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hi thanks guys.
Just on the long-term fund drive you have always had good progress and traction on the equity unit side of the business.
On the fixed income side it sounds like when we go to the funds and the some of the funds that you noted.
You have some that have good performance and the flows haven’t been as strong.
So just curious is there anything now that you guys are working on and that can be done on the distribution side or is it certain key products just aren’t where they need to be in order to be in order to be top five or ten funds that are selling in the industry? Well it’s a lot of repeat the sounding joy repeat the sounding joy keep telling the story and that’s what’s going on.
There were times where we would run into various situations where clients would say well I can’t get fired if I hire God or X and then that would just be the determinant and so now that particular answer doesn’t obtain and so that opens up a few little more but if you haven’t been doing the basic activities for a long time it just doesn’t – all of a sudden open up for you.
And yes there are some funds that are ground under [inaudible] but there are certainly plenty that could drive successful and positive flows here in to the future.
Mike we talked earlier about unconstrained strategies.
We have one that’s one clearly that where you’ve seen flows in the industry where we like to see a stronger effort and stronger results that would be one that we’re actively working on.
Okay thanks and then Debbie if you could just go on just curious given the volatility that we saw in the fixed income mortgage last week and given that the repo market is strong quite a bit over the years just more curious have you signed anything that was unusual where that made things a little bit more challenging or was it manageable? No it was very manageable nothing we’re as such low rates already from a standpoint of the shorter term offerings in the fixed income space for money market funds that it didn’t really translate into a lot of volatility.
Certainly we saw treasury go a little bit lower.
There was a flight to quality of different points and what might have been a 1.5 basis point that we were getting for our three months treasury became a 0.5 basis point.
Nothing went into negative territory maybe complicating things to some degree were the changes to the fed’s reverse repo program that occurred at the end of the third quarter whereby we had to place our orders at 8 am rather than at 1 pm and we were constrained on a total volume basis to no more than $300 billion which obviously caused instead of a five basis points return on that investment that was zero for the day.
But that didn’t seem and played through further within the quarter and we’re not sure what to expect from that from a fourth quarter perspective and I would venture to say that if anything is going to have more of an impact on the short short short term space it’s that particular program.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Well that will conclude our call and we thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
You may disconnect your line.
Welcome to the Federated Investors Fourth Quarter 2014 Analyst Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ray Hanley President Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today's call will be Chris Donahue Federated's CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
And joining us from Dublin for the Q&amp;A part of the call and Debbie Cunningham our Chief Investment Officer for Money Markets.
During today's call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated's actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
Chris? Thank you and good morning.
I will briefly review Federated's business performance and then Tom will comment on our financial results.
I will begin by reviewing a strong quarter and year for our equity business.
Our total equity assets grew by 17% in 2014 and we reached a record high in equity net sales of $4.3 billion.
Federated's equity fund organic growth rates of 10% for the fourth quarter annualized and 13% for 2014 were among the best in the industry.
Based on Strategic Insights data our fourth-quarter and full-year equity fund net flows ranked in the top 2% of the industry.
This growth and success reflects many years of focus and investments to develop a diversified lineup of equity teams and strategies with solid investment performance effective and growing distribution and high quality marketing and customer service.
Performance continues to be solid.
Using Morningstar data for ranked funds as of year-end eight federated funds were over 30% were in the top decile for the trailing three years.
We had 12 funds in the top quartile and about 2/3rds in the top half for the trailing three years.
Looking at the one-year ranking 12 funds were in the top quartile and two-thirds were above median.
We achieved solid results in multiple strategies.
For the three-year rankings at year-end all three Kaufmann strategies were top decile with the Kaufmann large-cap fund in the top 1% of the large-cap growth category.
Four of the seven MDT strategies were top decile the MDT stock trust fund ranked in the top 1% and the MDT all cap core fund ranked in the top 2% of the large value category.
The international leaders fund was in the top 2% of foreign large blend categories.
Our global allocation fund was top quintile and the capital income fund was top quartile among conservative allocation funds.
We achieved solid sales results with 18 funds in multiple categories producing positive net sales in the fourth quarter.
The strategic value dividend and capital income funds continued to be our top sellers.
Equity's separate account net redemptions included the $800 million redemption we mentioned during the last quarter.
Partially offsetting this redemption were solid net sales of our strategic value SMA strategies.
Equity fund net sales are positive here early in the first quarter of 2015.
We’re seeing positive flows in a number of strategies including capital income strategic value Kaufmann large cap Clover small muni and stock advantage managed vol and MDT stock trust.
Now turning to fixed income net fund sales were led by total return bond funds and the institutional high-yield bond funds.
Fourth-quarter separate account net sales of $1.2 billion were driven by the high-yield and active cash wins which we had mentioned on our last call.
High yield is an area of long term strength.
Our institutional high-yield fund strategy was the only fund to beat its peers in each of the last 11 calendar years.
Our high-yield trust fund ranked first in its category for the trailing five years.
We continued to see institutional interest in RFP activity for high yield.
At year-end we had four fixed income strategies with top quartile three-year records including the high yield short intermediate duration muni and mortgage institutional.
Fixed income flows are positive here early in the first quarter led by total return bond fund institutional high-yield bond fund and the ultra-short fund.
Now looking at money markets period end fund assets increased by about $10 billion and average money market fund assets increased by about $5 billion from the prior quarter.
The growth was weighted to prime funds which added $7 billion.
Our market share at year-end was about 8.2%.
Money market separate accounts increased reflecting tax seasonality.
We continue to work on product modifications and additions related to new money market funds rules which were released in July.
We expect to have products in place to meet the needs of all of our money fund clients.
These will likely include prime and muni money market funds modified to meet the new requirements government funds separate accounts and offshore money funds.
We are also working on developing privately placed funds in an attempt to mirror existing Federated money market funds to serve the needs of groups of qualified usually institutional investors unable to use money funds modified by the new rules.
The new rules as you recall are subject to a lengthy implementation period.
The floating NAV requirement for institutional prime and muni funds takes effect in October of 2016.
Taking a look at our most recent asset totals as of January 21st managed assets were approximately $263 billion including $259 billion in money markets $51 billion in equities $53 billion in fixed income.
Money market mutual fund assets were $223 billion and don't forget that the liquidation portfolio assets were fully liquidated during the fourth quarter.
Looking at distribution 2014 was a solid year for our sales force.
In the broker dealer channel gross equity fund sales increased 40% compared to 2013 and redemptions decreased 25% resulting in strong net equity sales.
We're benefiting from increased investments made over the last couple of years in this channel.
We've added to the sales staff and made investments in technology and marketing to support our sales efforts.
In the wealth management and trust channel equity fund sales grew by 27% on a full-year basis and redemptions decreased by 19% swinging net equity flows solidly positive.
We've also seen considerable new business and interest in our total return bond strategy and we added a $500 million active cash separate account in the fourth quarter.
The SMA business continues to be solid and expanding.
Total SMA assets ended the year at nearly $16 billion with most of this in equities.
The SMA assets were up 27% in 2014 and have more than doubled over the past three years.
Our international strategic value dividend strategy was added to several broker-dealer SMA programs in 2014.
It complements the success we are having with the domestic strategy in SMAs.
We're also seeing interest in the MDT mid-cap growth strategy which was added to a major broker SMA program in the fourth quarter.
In the institutional channel we added a $700 million high-yield separate account in the fourth quarter.
We won two equity mandates in the fourth quarter Kaufmann large-cap growth and international leaders blend that we expect to fund at around $100 million during the first quarter of '15.
We continue to have success at expanding retirement channel distribution with the international leaders capital income Kaufmann large-cap strategies as well as high-yield global allocation managed vol and Clover and MDT strategies being added to various retirement programs.
RFP activity remains solid with interest in Kaufmann Clover MDT strategic value and international strategies for equities and high-yield short duration and core broad for fixed income.
We continue to see momentum building in our institutional effort and are planning to add two additional institutional sales managers in 2015 to increase the capacity of our consultant relations staff.
On the international side we are considering product enhancements for Canada to accelerate the good growth we have seen in retail and institutional markets.
Assets from Canada grew 33% in 2014 to $1.5 billion at year-end.
We increased sales resources for Canada in 2014 adding two sales positions including a new institutional sales rep.
We have seen good early-stage institutional interest and RFP activity from the sales efforts with RJ Delta in Chile with particular interest in our high-yield strategy.
We continue to seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Europe and in the AsiaPac region as well as in the United States.
Thank you Chris.
Various line items in our Q4 results were impacted by the sale of our retirement plan service business at the end of Q3.
Other service fee revenue related to this change decreased by $2.7 million from the prior quarter and from Q4 of 2013.
Related operating expenses decreased by similar amounts with about half of the reductions in distribution expense and half in professional service fees.
Revenue was up from the prior quarter due to money market and equity related revenue increases.
Revenue increased from Q4 2013 driven by growth in equity assets.
Equities comprised 46% of our Q4 revenues the highest percentage among the various asset classes.
Combined equity and fixed income revenues were about 70% of the total.
Operating expenses were essentially flat from the prior quarter.
The increase in compensation and related from Q3 was mainly due to strong sales and investment results.
The operating margin increased to 28.3% up compared to both prior quarter and Q4 of 2013 as we continued across the firm to successfully manage expenses while investing for growth.
The impact of money fund minimum yield waivers was $29.5 million and it was down slightly from the prior quarter and about the same as Q4 2013.
Based on current assets fewer days and assuming overnight repo rates for treasury and mortgage-backed securities run at roughly 6 to 8 basis points over the quarter and T-bills stay in the 2 to 8 basis point range.
The impact of the waivers to pretax income in Q1 would be around $28 million.
Looking forward we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields from beginning Q1 levels would likely reduce the impact of minimum yield waivers by about 40% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 65%.
Looking ahead we expect that we will recover about 75% of minimum yield waiver-related pretax income when money fund yields increase to the point of eliminating these waivers.
This estimate is based on our assessment of competitive market conditions including the expectation that we will incur higher distribution expenses as a percentage of money market revenues when rates and yields increase.
Multiple factors impact waiver levels and we expect these factors and their impact to vary.
These taxes include; changes in fund assets available yields for investments actions by regulators changes in the expense level of a funds changes in the mix of customer assets changes in product structure changes in distribution fee arrangements with third parties Federated's willingness to continue the fee waivers and changes in the extent to which the impact of the waivers is shared by third parties.
The Q4 effective tax rate was 36.3% and reflected certain tax adjustments.
We expect the effective rate going forward to be 38%.
For Q1 it's important to remember that the fewer number of days will impact revenue which is largely earned on a per day basis.
Thus for Q1 based on Q4 asset levels revenues would be reduced by about $7 million and the related distribution expense would be reduced by about $2.5 million for a reduction in operating income of about $4.5 million.
Again this is based on Q4 average assets.
Seasonality around payroll taxes and benefit expenses will impact compensation and related expense in Q1 and we expect to have higher incentive compensation accruals.
An early estimate of Q1 comp and related expense is about $75 million to $76 million up about $3 million to $4 million from Q4.
The combined impact of fewer days and higher estimated compensation related expense is about $8 million in lower operating income compared to Q4 all else being equal.
Looking at our balance sheet we retired 20 million shares which had no impact on total equity and cash and investments totaled nearly $300 million at year-end.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we would like to open the call up for your questions now.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is coming from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
Please proceed with your question.
First I guess excluding some of the lumpy wins and redemptions you mentioned earlier could you just walk through maybe some of the underlying flow trends across the institutional business? And looking ahead any color on the pipeline or RFP activity as they stand today and maybe relative to more recent trends.
Sure Mike.
It's Ray.
Obviously the lumpy ones were high yield but we have ongoing interest in that.
And we mentioned good RFP activity and interest there so we expect that to continue to have strength into 2015.
On active cash that's historically been an area of strength.
We mentioned having a couple of equity wins that will fund around $100 million.
We've actually had a few more in the early part of Q1 here.
So the most recent activity seems to be shifting more towards equity and I would mention the MDT strategies as really screening well and attracting a high level of interest.
Okay.
And then in terms of the total return bond fund and the opportunity to pick up share as part of maybe a broader replacement cycle just wondering if you could give us an update in terms of progress on that front and sort of the outlook going forward.
With total return bond fund what we're seeing is an interest in sales there because people are interested in an upper left if you're looking at the risk return profile charts which is risk-adjusted returns minimizing tracking error and a consistent approach and this has worked out well for us.
Because our approach is -- okay lots of transparency lots of risk controls a team structure alpha pods that focus individual teams focusing on duration and yield curve and sector allocation and security selection.
So this whole approach and performance seems to resonate well with intermediaries fiduciaries and institutions.
So we think this is a payback for good basic blocking and tackling for a good bit of time.
Okay and then maybe just one last one for Tom.
You mentioned the step up in comp expected in the first quarter.
But just more broadly any thoughts on expense growth in light of some of the ongoing spending initiatives you mentioned as well as the market volatility? The expense related to the money market business and all the various structures and what are we doing we spent a decent amount of money working to maintain that business in the past few years and so a lot of the resources there are going to help us structure new products and attract maintain and gain new business.
So I don't see big expense increases there is the short answer.
And in terms of volatility and impacts on us we spend our life trying to adjust and manage the operating expenses of the Company based on what's going on in the marketplace and I think we've done a pretty commendable job especially in 2014 dealing with these waivers and actually looking at each quarter in 2014 and seeing a slight increase in margin every quarter.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Just wanted to follow up Tom did I hear you correctly that you're only going to recoup about 75% of the aggregate fee waivers? I'm curious can you walk through maybe a little bit more detail what's happening incrementally to get us there and then why you're comfortable that you can get to 75% as a result of that? Bill the biggest item is one contract renegotiation that we expect to happen at some point and when we just looked at where we expect that to end up it gives us pretty good confidence in the 75% because as you know we weren't willing to put a number out on that before.
And then just more broadly as you think about because you had ticked off a few things that you're working on as an alternative to some of the floating rate product if you will as you spend another quarter interacting with clients and regulators what do you think is the most probable outcome and what do you think happens with net volumes as a result of that? What was the second part of that? I can get on the most probable outcome.
What was the second part of your question? Any kind of leakage that there might be on volume as a result of pros and cons of that alternative product? It's really hard to foresee the leakage at this point.
We don't see it we don't hear it from clients and if you've looked at the industry statistics you've seen that money market fund assets are basically up over $2.7 trillion.
So on that part of it there remains a tremendous desire on the part of clients across the board for these types of products.
In terms of where we're going we not yet ready to announce to all of the individual shareholders and individual funds how it's going to look.
We have a pretty good idea of how it's going to look.
There will be a number of fund mergers.
There will be the spawning of more classes we will have products in each area treasury government prime and muni that meet the requirements.
Also have 60 day funds have retail funds divided from institutional.
But we are very much right now in what I like to refer to as the waterboarding stage of this whole exercise and we’ve as Tom mentioned changed the regulatory response expense into a restructuring of products expense and we think we will be able to score on all streets.
And I look forward to after the dust settles being able to get back onto the track of increasing money market fund assets post the October 16 date.
Okay.
Just one final one for me thanks for taking all these questions.
You mentioned you're seeing some stepped up interest in MDT which is a bit of contrast from what we're hearing from some of your peers who have more of a mathematical business model.
What is it? is it just performance? Or are you starting to see a pickup in demand for that type of product? And if it is it is it more of a market share opportunity at this point? Bill we look at it as a market share opportunity.
While it is quantitative it has fundamental underpinnings to it and it certainly is attractive because of the performance.
We mentioned the number of strategies on the fund side but the same translates to the institutional account side -- top decile literally in the top 1% and 2% of categories.
So it's performance it's across multiple strategies within MDT and we're looking forward to moving the needle on that more this year.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Chris you mentioned some of the things that you've been working on strategically in the long term products 7% organic growth is well above the industry.
I just want to get a sense particularly on the distribution side what you guys have been investing in and then maybe by channel where you stand relative to what you guys view as your competition.
Is there further investment to be made to either sustain the 7% organic growth or even be able to beat that over time? And if there's anything on the product side you can add to that but I think that's been pretty visible with what you guys have been doing on the alternative side.
Where the next round -- I'll cover that first then get into some of the prior -- the next round is likely to find attractive the work we're doing on the alternatives space.
You are starting to hear me mention the managed vol fund and it's catching on well and there is a whole family of alternatives that we are looking at building into the future that we have a little less than $2 billion in that space right now.
But much the same as back I guess it was almost a decade and a half ago when we talked about the power of income and brought forth capital income equity income and strategic value dividend.
Now those are mature and running well this is how we see the alternatives groups coming into their own as we unfold in the future.
So we have invested heavily in that.
In terms of how we make the numbers happen on what's been going on the institutional the investments have been made by adding two salespeople by adding to -- we've increased the number probably from 100 200 up to 208 or so in terms of sales individuals.
We mentioned adding a few more on the consultant side in the institutional portion of our business and so it is adding there.
One of the ways we do it in the broker-dealer world is to look at the number of FAAs or brokers that are actually writing tickets that continually increases.
We're always looking at the sales forces at their districts or their areas and saying -- how many offices and how many individuals do you have and how many are you actually calling on and is it possible to further segment that and add viable sales positions? And that seems to be working pretty well.
That was the engine that brought us in the last five or six quarters to add people here and there.
So it is basic blocking and tackling along those lines.
The other thing would be the consistent performance of a lot of product with good records and the consistency of those products is what's paying off.
We had 18 funds in the fourth quarter with positive flows and those products have had a long history of consistent performance.
So it's a confluence of many events.
And then Tom maybe just a quick one there is a lot of moving parts in the P&amp;L particularly with the waivers depending on how that shakes out heading into 2015.
If I think about just maintaining the 7% growth on the long term products a normal market tailwind say 7% and then fee waivers staying steady meaning no real change and if you're able to maintain that for a year or two years where can the margin go? Because there is obviously the sales component meaning comp's going to be higher if you maintain that 7% organic growth rate but as scale builds in some of the products just trying to understand where you get the operating leverage.
Our 28.3% margin is not what we are striving for.
It's basically in a maintain mode and trying to keep everything together in terms of funding growth and having a margin that we can live with and still invest in all the things we want to invest in.
So we absolutely would expect our margin to grow if we maintain our growth of products and taking the waiver discussion out of it that will be a lot of moving parts as we've said many times.
Early on when the waivers go away the margin will improve and then the later part of the waivers going away the margin will decline.
So we'll get to talk about that when rates go up.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Robert Lee with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a quick question Chris can you maybe give us some color on the mix of new business from U.S.
non-U.S.? You mentioned Canada today.
Although it's not a big market you've had a lot of growth there.
In the past you've talked about initiatives whether it's in Europe and elsewhere.
So could you maybe give us an update of the sales and flow success you're having how that's splitting out between U.S.
versus non-U.S.? The overwhelming majority for us is obviously U.S.
Canada when you say it's not a big market as a rule of thumb it's 10% of the U.S.
So we think there's really excellent opportunities.
What's selling up there is basically strategic value dividend and we are looking at putting up a fund with that orientation toward it up in Canada.
As I mentioned with RJ Delta in Chile the basic focus is high yield.
So those are the primary ingredients of those two efforts.
If you're looking at the overall numbers on Federated it is a domestic story on the numbers.
And then maybe thinking of the distribution success in retail world you talked about a lot more products on platforms more brokers and advisors dropping tickets that type of thing but maybe getting a little more granular are there specific channels where you're seeing more success versus others -- wirehouses versus RIAs or independent broker-dealers? Just curious if there is any particular areas of channel strength.
Rob it's Ray.
Really it's been across channels but the broker-dealer channels had an outstanding year in particular in 2014 and now when we see fixed income shifting a little bit that tends to be more on the wealth management and trust side of the equation.
We're very active with RIAs and with the independents and with the wirehouses.
We are trying to cover them all but I would describe 2014 as the strongest in the broker-dealer channel among all the types of brokers.
Thank you.
Our next is coming from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Maybe first for Debbie fed funds is up from call it more or less 9 basis points to more or less 12 basis points and I wanted to see if you thought that increase is representative for what you're seeing in the broader basket of securities in which money funds can invest or if there's actually a divergence occurring.
There is always divergence occurring in the context of the treasury side of the equation.
Those particular products are probably seeing something more like 1 to 1.5 basis points as opposed to the three that has effectively occurred in the Fed funds marketplace.
Contrast that to some CDs and commercial paper a little bit further out the yield curve where when you're seeing rates that are maybe 4 or 5 basis points higher.
So there is a little bit of divergence based on both what the security type is in addition to the majority of it.
Okay.
So obviously 1 or 2 basis points not a big deal but once the Fed moves 25 or 50 would you see reasons for that divergence to magnify and to persist if we look out a year or two based on supply and demand and where money is moving? Or does everything tighten up? What's your view? I think a lot depends on how the alignment of shareholders plays out.
As we currently are planning as Chris has mentioned in different ways and many times the intention is to keep all of our shareholders and give all of them homes.
If that home resides more in the government space than the prime space you'll probably see spreads on those particular securities tighten.
We don't think that necessarily is the likely case though.
We are trying to come up with products that keeps our prime institutional investors and our median institutional investors in those more spread products.
So if that's the way of the industry similar to our own expectations I would say our thoughts on likely spread relationships as we go forward and the Fed's tightening process will maybe hold to what they have been in a historic sense.
Okay.
And if the tightening goes not as expected does that translate into waivers that last longer than would otherwise would be the case? Am I interpreting that correctly? How does it flow through the fee waivers? Ken on the waivers so much of it happens on the very front end that when you get out a year a year plus and you've cleared we've said three quarters of our money market fund assets are priced at 50 basis points or less.
The waiver recovery is very much front-end loaded.
And then Tom you mentioned you'll recover 75% of the fee waivers from rate increases.
I was a little confused.
Why isn't that 100%? Or maybe it's 100% over time but maybe not 100% initially.
You mentioned to Bill's question the contract negotiation.
Can you tie that all together for me? I didn't get why we don't go to 100% recovery.
We'll recover the revenue but we'll pay more out in the expense distribution side.
Is that permanent? Is that a permanent thing? So somehow this low interest rate environment has permanently given some sort of 25% edge to distribution? Or does even that 75% go to 100% as rates further rise over time? No.
We collect revenues and we pay out revenues pay out part of the revenues to our distribution partners and there is going to be a change in the mix of the payout.
So the net we're going to get less and this is a continual thing for us in the industry which we've talked about many times which is our distribution costs going up.
Okay.
And then lastly on fixed income separate accounts can you give us some more detail on the product AUM composition? I'm really curious about the duration of the separate accounts but I'm sure you can answer that in just what products they are.
Obviously there is high yield you mentioned the cash but what's the mix? Ken the mix would also include a slug of core broad.
I would probably want to check more of the numbers and get back to you to try to give you anything that would be useful from an overall duration standpoint.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
This is [inaudible] stepping in for Craig.
Can you provide your perspective on how new banking regulations like LCR could shift deposits back to the money market fund industry? And just maybe help us frame the potential size here.
Thanks.
I will attempt the first part of that and I will let Debbie comment as well.
In terms of LCR we are hearing from some of our larger clients and I think we may have mentioned this on the last call as well that as you read in the press there is a rigorous effort to evaluate every cash management client in order to determine the capital cost and therefore the economic efficacy of keeping those clients by those large banks.
And some clients are being asked to graduate from the relationship with the bank and this of course will inspire people to want to use money market funds.
And I don't think there is going to be an alteration in that factor.
It is very very difficult for us to try and size that.
In the clients we've talked to they don't even know the exact number or the answer but it does add one factor to why I believe and said earlier in this call that after the regulations are all put into place that we can look forward to higher balances again in my opinion and this is one of the factors.
And if Debbie has any insight on how much this would be I would be pleased to hear it but I would be surprised.
Debbie? There is just a whole lot of questions still Chris around this defining amounts and expectations is hard.
One of the things that we worry about to some degree with this is two-fold.
If in fact clients are being squeezed out of the bank because of this particular regulation and they come into money funds that increases obviously the positive flows and the need for additional investments.
On the other side of the equation when we look at those that are supplying those investments they're generally banks also and are being incented to not to supply those same investments for us and to finance in a different way.
So if we end up with a lot of additional clients and flow but are unable to put that money to work in the normal configuration perhaps to go back to one of the issues that we were talking about a little bit earlier maybe spreads do narrow some in that type of environment.
But again I think it's still too early in the equation to make a determination on that.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jonathan Casteleyn with Hedgeye Risk Management.
Please proceed with your question.
As the industry prepares for regulation and the new operating environment does that make the consolidation seem in money market funds more likely or less likely? And can you just talk broadly about the potential outlook for your pipeline doing lift-outs etcetera? Well the consolidation seen continues basically before the '08 crisis there were over 200 firms offering money funds.
Today if you look at the list there will be a list of 80 but the bottom 25 or 30 will have either very little money or money that they totally control the redemption right on.
So we look forward to more consolidation of the smaller players but on the other hand if you look at the list the top 30 or so players are not going to get out of this business.
It's essential to where they are even though they may not have large components.
So yes there will be more consolidation as these regulations unfold but a lot of it has already happened.
As is generally the case increased regulation and cost of operation barriers to entry etcetera tend to oligopolize the businesses and that is a trend that's going on here and will continue.
Okay.
So in regard to your pipeline you've done lift-outs before which tend to be fairly accretive immediately.
I mean is the pipeline from your perspective growing or shrinking as far as your opportunity? Well it's shrinking from the 200 to 80 that Chris mentioned so there is less players to who we can talk to and see if we can convince to come into our complex.
Okay.
And as far as you retool the money market fund offering from funds into separately managed accounts and as you merge those funds etcetera is there a big operating cost boost to that procedure meaning does your OpEx go up because you have to retool to merge funds move assets into separately managed accounts etcetera? Well the way we've described this is we took the team that was working on regulatory response and aimed that team at product reconstruction so that yes there are costs.
You have people doing real things and it's not all that easy.
But in terms of an increase in cost no because they were doing something different the year before but it's the same kind of expense.
We're also not writing as many love letters to the regulators as we had in the past which does have an impact and that gives us those kinds of resources to spend on improving these products.
So in the new environment because we're going to have a bunch of fund mergers some funds will disappear but we're also going to spawn more classes as I mentioned.
And it's hard to say right now whether that would have any meaningful -- I don't think it would have any meaningful effect on expenditures.
What I can say is that because of the elimination of an institutional prime money market fund as we knew it there will be increase in costs in the marketplace and to us because everything else that we're coming up with is not as good as that product.
Of course that was the intention of the regulators.
So it's very hard for us to say oh well now that will mean an increase in so much expenses as I've mentioned.
But there is an overall cost to the economy into the capital markets by this whole effort.
And then lastly can you just prioritize capital deployments for shareholders meaning rank and file the support of the current common dividends special dividends acquisitions? Can you just let us know when you think about deploying your free cash flow what's the order that those strategies fall into? The overall philosophy is that the money belongs to the shareholders and so now we say how do we divide them up? And you can look at our wheels and our charts as to how we've done it all.
And if push comes to shove my leanings are to likely acquisition as the highest and best use but that is not inconsistent with paying a nice regular dividend or always being available to do a special dividend.
Buying shares we've been polite about that and over time we've bought 4.5 million shares back at an average price of I don't know $25 or $26 something like that.
So that remains something as well.
We will continue to be opportunistic about it but that's about as close as we can get to giving you a pecking order.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Patrick Davitt with Autonomous.
Please proceed with your question.
It seems striking to me that one contract renegotiation would take away 25% of the fee waiver recovery.
How can we be comfortable that that's not the first of many renegotiations? I guess in other words how confident are you that this is an isolated one-off situation? Well since it's a very big client that we've had for a long time we think that is a one-off.
But that does not change what has existed for decades of a continuing effort of everybody to try and alter those economic arrangements.
So that's why we can be pretty confident when we know where we are heading in the negotiation with that one client what's likely and then cut it off and say 75%.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Greggory Warren with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
I'm just thinking about money market fee rates from a higher level and over the longer term.
If we think about what's happened within the industry overall on fee compression you see fixed income funds their realization rates right now are about 15% lower than they were a decade ago.
You guys have been hit a lot harder because of the fee waivers.
You're between 50%% and 60% lower.
I'm wondering as rates increase and as time moves out and you're able to expand our those is there a ceiling on where you feel fee rates might be? If we apply the same 15% haircut to money market funds right now that would imply a 20 21 basis point on a 26 basis point level a decade ago.
I don't know how to address the question of whether or not there is a ceiling.
I've never been worried about cracking into the ceiling on a money fund fee.
It's more like where can it go? And that is determined largely by the marketplace and because of structure and commitment on both sides meaning clients and us we were able to and are able to sustain ourselves even though we have zero interest rate environment.
So I wouldn't connect any percentages that you're doing on the fixed-income side with what could or would happen in terms of fee rates on the money market funds side.
What we see generally speaking is more competition because we focus on the intermediary on the intermediary payment arrangements than on the actual fees on the money fund.
So different client group different providers have different client groups and therefore are influenced in different ways.
So I'm not looking at it as a some kind of 15% relationship like you're talking about and frankly we've never even really talked about it that way.
Okay.
I was just thinking outside the box a little bit there.
It's helpful to think of it that way because you think about the industry overall it's a function of larger AUM balances it's higher distribution costs it's competition.
There is a lot of different things that lead into that fee compression for different asset classes and I was just curious to see where you felt the bigger piece was and it sounds like it's more on the distribution side.
When you mention the list of things don't forget the dedication to long term effort to really do the credit work and structure the portfolio.
It isn't only those factors it's the portfolio management that Debbie and her team do and have done for decades that really makes a difference in this business.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Surinder Thind with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
I just wanted to actually revisit expenses.
I know we've talked quite a bit about them but can you help me just aside from the step up in 1Q in the comp expense can you just help me understand the bigger picture in terms of the 2015 outlook in terms of increased head count merit expenses and just maybe overall investment in expenses in terms of giving the strong growth that you guys have been seeing? We are hoping that our margins increase and so that fits right in with revenues are going up the expenses are going to go up to match it and hope that the margin increases from that 28% level.
In terms of going through the headcount and other things that we would view as worthy and something that everybody should know about because it was big enough and important enough to talk about we would go through that.
So we haven't done that so there is nothing to grab onto and say everybody needs to know about this going on and this going on.
The things I've pointed out the comp and the days are kind of glaring and nothing else is really -- we can always get performance improves even more and sales go up even more and so we have higher comp numbers because of the way the programs work.
Then can you also help me understand the tax rate? It's coming a little bit lower than I had been anticipating in the last couple quarters.
Any thoughts on 2015 tax rate? Yes Surinder.
We would continue to look to something at or near 38%.
At the end of the year we have some adjustments and things that affect Q4.
If you look at Q4 last year it was much lower than the 38%.
It was down around 34%.
So I would not look at this Q4 as anything to carry forward.
It reflected some particular adjustments and you should continue to use 38% for full-year 2015.
Thank you.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional concluding comments.
Well thank you that concludes our call.
And we appreciate your time today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors First Quarter 2015 Analyst Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Ray Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you Mr.
Hanley.
You may now begin.
Good morning and welcome.
As mentioned we've some brief remarks and then we’ll open it up for your questions.
Leading today’s call will be Chris Donahue Federated’s CEO and President and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer and joining us for the Q&amp;A is Debbie Cunningham our Chief Investment Officer for Money Markets.
During today’s call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated’s actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Chris.
Thanks Ray and good morning all.
I will briefly review Federated’s business performance and then Tom will comment on our financial results.
I will begin by reviewing another strong quarter for our equity business.
Total equity managed assets grew by 5% from the prior quarter and were up 18% from the first quarter of 2014.
We had our best quarter yet for gross equity sales with sales of $4.5 billion and our third best quarter for net equity sales of $1.6 billion.
These figures of course include a combination of both the mutual funds and the separate account sales and net sales figures.
Looking specifically at Federated’s equity fund organic growth rate we see it was 11% for the first quarter annualized and again this was among the best in the industry.
Based on strategic insights data our first quarter equity net flows are just under $900 million ranked in the top 3% of the industry.
Equity sales results were solid in a number of different strategies and believe we are well positioned for continued growth.
Our equity success comes from years of focus and investment leading to a diversified mix of high quality teams and strategies delivered through effective and growing intermediary-based distribution.
Performance continues to be solid using Morningstar data for rank funds as of yearend seven federated funds or 27% were in the top deciles for trailing three years.
We had 11 funds which is 42% in the top quartile and over three forth of our funds in the top half for the trailing three years.
Looking at the one year rankings eight funds or 31% were in the top quarter and 62% were above median.
Performance highlights include the Kaufmann Large Cap Fund in the top 4% or better for the trailing one three and five years.
The Kaufmann team and the Kaufmann Large Cap Fund were featured prominently in this past weekend's balance.
MDT’s stock fund a large cap value strategy and MDT all cap core fund were both in the top 2% for the trailing three years.
The International Leaders Funds a Foreign large cap blend strategy is in the top 5% or better for the trailing three five and ten years and our global allocation fund was top-quintile for the trailing one three and five years.
These results highlight the breadth and strength of our equity product line.
We continue to add distribution success across a variety of equity strategies.
In fact two-thirds of our active equity strategies had net positive sales for the first quarter led by Kaufmann Large Cap the domestic and international strategic value dividend funds capital income Muni stock advantage international leaders and Clover Small Value Funds.
Equity separate account net sales were again driven by the domestic international strategic value strategies.
Equity fund net sales remain solidly positive here early in the second quarter with positive net flows in many of the same strategies that were that occurred in the first quarter.
Now turning to fixed income our net fund sales were led by total return bond fund and the institutional high yield bond fund.
Our high yield trust fund earned the Lipper award for its category for leading performance over five years ending December 31 of ‘14.
The fund ranked in the top 1% for trailing three five and ten years.
We continue to see institutional interest and RFP activity for high yield short duration and total return bond strategies.
At the end of the quarter we had five fixed income strategies with top-quartile three year records including high yield short intermediate muni ultra-short and mortgage institutional.
Tax related seasonality mainly in the ultra-short products resulted in negative early Q2 fixed income fund flows.
Now let’s look at Money Markets assets decreased about $10 billion reflecting seasonality though average assets were higher than the prior quarter.
We expect to see further seasonal money fund asset decreases in the second quarter largely due to tax related uses of cash.
Recall however that Money Markets separate accounts tend to benefit from tax seasonality.
Money Market fund share at quarter end was slightly over 8%.
We continue to make progress in reshaping our Money Market fund product line in response to the 2014 rules.
The fund's Board will consider a variety of related proposals next month and we expect to be able to fill in additional details on product changes in the coming months.
We expect to have products in place to meet the needs of all of our money fund clients.
These will likely include prime and muni money market funds modified to meet the new requirements government money funds separate accounts and offshore money funds.
We're also working to develop privately placed funds in an attempt to mirror existing Federated money market funds to serve the needs of groups of qualified institutional investors unable or unwilling to use money funds modified by the new rules.
The new rules are subject to a lengthy implementation period.
The floating NAV requirement for institutional prime and muni fund takes effect in October 2016.
Last week we announced a deal with Reich &amp; Tang Asset Management to transition approximately $7 billion in money fund assets to Federated money funds.
We’re working with Reich &amp; Tang financial intermediaries and fund shareholders to transition these assets which we expect will begin in June.
Taking a look now at our most recent asset totals as of April 22 managed assets were approximately $349 billion including $240 billion in money markets $55 billion in equities and $54 billion in fixed income.
Money market fund assets were $204 billion and April average money fund assets were running at about $206 billion.
Looking at distribution our sales force continued its momentum in the first quarter leading to the record equity sales that I mentioned earlier.
Equity fund gross sales have increased each quarter in 2014 and Q1 of '15.
Compared to Q1 of last year gross equity fund sales grew by 22% led by 37% growth in our wealth management and trust channel 28% growth from the broker dealer channel.
Fixed income fund gross sales increased 6% compared to the first quarter of 2014 with solid gains in both of these channels.
The SMA business continues to be solid and expanding.
Total SMA assets ended the quarter at $16.5 billion with most of this in equities.
Assets here are about -- up about 27% compared to Q1 of last year and have more than doubled over the past three years federated ranked eighth in the Cerulli Associates Rankings of the largest SMA managers at year end.
In the institutional channel we added two equity mandates in Q1 for MBT Mid Cap Growth totaling about $225 million of which about $100 million funded in the first quarter.
We also won separated account mandates for Kaufmann large-cap and the international leader strategies.
We expect about $215 million in equity institutional account funding in the second quarter.
We recently announced the addition of the West Virginia local government investment pool and expect about $1.2 billion to fund in the third quarter.
RFP activity remains solid and diversified with interest in Kaufmann Clover MBT strategic value and international strategies for equities high-yield and short duration for fixed income.
Our equity RFP activity has more than doubled when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
On the international side we're planning for product enhancements for Canada to accelerate the growth we’ve seen in retail and institutional markets.
We expect to launch a Canadian domicile strategic value dividend product this year.
We continue to seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Europe and the Asia-Pac region as well of course is in the United States.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Revenue was up $3 million from the prior quarter due mainly to lower money fund yield waivers which added nearly $6 million and higher equity assets which added $4 million.
These increases were partially offset by the impact of two fewer days in Q1 which negatively impacted sequential quarterly revenues by more than $7 million.
Revenue increased from Q1 2014 by $9 million due largely to growth in equity assets.
Equities contributed 46% of Q1 revenues again the highest percentage among the various asset classes.
Combined equity and fixed income revenues were just under 70% of the total.
Before commenting on expenses I’d like to note that we moved certain sales commission related expenses previously included in other -- in the other line items into distribution expense.
The amount reclassified for Q1 2015 was $4 million for Q1 2014 it was $2.6 million and for Q4 2014 it was $3.8 million.
The operating expenses were up from prior quarter due mainly to higher comp and professional service expense.
Comp increased due to seasonally higher payroll tax and benefit cost as well as stock comp expense.
Professional service fees were up due to an increase in legal expenses.
Sequential quarter distribution expense was impacted by fewer days in the quarter which reduced these expenses by $2.5 million offset by the impact of lower money fund yield waivers.
As we pointed out last quarter the reduced number of days impacted our operating income by about $5 million which impacted the operating margin by 1.2%.
Comp increased from Q1 of last year due to higher incentive comp expense and wage increases.
The impact of money fund yield waivers of $27 million was down from the prior quarter and year-over-year.
Based on current assets and assuming overnight repo rates for treasury and mortgage backed securities we’re on roughly 9 to 12 basis points over the quarter and T-bills stay in the two to 10 basis point range.
The impact of these waivers to pretax income for Q2 would be around $24 million.
Looking forward we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields from beginning Q2 levels would likely reduce the impact of yield waivers by about 40% and the 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 65%.
We continue to expect to recover about 75% of money fund yield waiver related pretax income when yields increase to the point of eliminating these waivers.
This estimate is based on our assessment of competitive market conditions including the expectation that we will incur higher distribution expense as a percentage of money fund money market revenues when rates and yields increase.
Multiple factors impact waiver levels and we expect these factors and their impact to vary.
These factors include changes in fund assets available yields for investments actions by regulators changes in the expense levels of the funds changes in the mix of customer assets changes in product structure changes in distribution fee arrangements with third parties.
Federated’s willingness to continue to see waivers and changes in the extent to which the impact of the waivers is shared by third parties.
Q1 effective tax rate was about 38% as expected and that continues to be our expectation going forward.
Looking at the balance sheet cash and investments totaled $280 million at quarter end.
We would now like to open up the call for your questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question is coming from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys good morning.
First just as it relates to sort of reshaping your money market funds to align with the upcoming regulatory changes.
Just wondering what the long-term impact on yields could be as some of your institutional prime money market funds convert to 60-day funds and whether you think that could have any impact on market shares across the industry? Well let’s divide that into two questions.
One what’s the impact on yield might be as people move from prime to govi in some cases or move into the 60-day range and then as relates to market share.
I will handle the second part and will let Debbie comment on the first part.
So on the market share what I expect to happen over the longer term is that in a post October 16 environment Federated will see increases in assets in the money market fund area because the dust will settle all of the education will have occurred on the efficacy of the new product offerings and the things that exist in the marketplace now to encourage more cash use will continue for example banking regulations that causes certain customers to not be favored as deposit customers.
The increase still in amount of money being credit by the government is part of normal operations.
The regular use of cash by customers the fact that corporations there use to be pretty near half of the corporation use money funds.
Today that number is closer to 20% and I think they will come back in.
So overall I think we will begin to see increases in assets which I think will turn back to increases in market share for our offerings.
And now I'll let Debbie comment on the potential rate impacts of some of these changes.
Good morning Michael and thanks Chris.
From an historic perspective if you looked at the grow yield differences between the traditional prime fund and by tradition I mean one that can use all of the allowances under 2A7 so out of 397 days on a final maturity basis and 60 days on win basis.
And historically that’s produced about a 12 basis point yield differential between prime and government funds.
Our expectation is that a 60 day type product will fit right into the middle of that particular spread.
So if it remains at 12 basis points somewhere in the six basis point neighborhood our real thought though in the context of how this all works out is that there will likely be some swell of assets that initially takes the easy path and that easy path would be going into a government fund from a prime fund.
And effectively abandoning their allowances to go into the prime market and so what does that do? That generally speaking would cause supply demand differences in the marketplace that would probably cause that 12 basis point spread on historic basis to go a little bit wider and how much wider? 20 basis points 30 basis points 40 basis points you pick the number.
But at some point there will be a time then that for those investors that did choose the easy path and went into the government institutional marketplace yet have the allowances to go back into prime at that point.
There will be a point at which they then look at whatever that spread differential is and think it’s fairly attractive and what we think will be the case is that there will be sort of reverse swells that go back in the other direction probably over a longer period of time but with less volume in each one of them.
And again throughout this entire period and continuing as we have these products up and running post the 2016 time period prime versus government versus 60 day is going to show that 60 day prime probably right smacked up in the middle of where that prime govi growth yield differential is.
Great that’s very helpful.
And then it just seems like the pending regulatory changes are increasingly foreseeing smaller players to exit the money market fund business so just wondering how big of a roll up opportunity you think that can be.
And then related to that does that shift your capital management approach at all as you think about the mix between these types of opportunities versus share purchases and dividends? Well since it’s a general rule for money market funds we don’t use capital upfront to pay for the transactions.
There will be no impact on capital.
As regards to roll up activity as I’ve said on these calls before before the '08 timeframe there were over 200 firms offering money funds.
Today if you look at the list there are 80 and the bottom 25 or so don’t have enough of assets to really make a third-party gain of it.
And so increasingly you see one at a time type things like Touchstone or like Reich &amp; Tang or others that we’ve done come along.
So it’s not exactly a catalyst.
If you look at the whole picture of it you would say gee with '08 caused people to leave the money funds the '010 amendments caused others to leave.
The '14 amendments will cause still others to leave the actual implementation date in '16 will cause others and so it is more or less a steady March but it is without a sudden catalyst.
Got it and then maybe just one last one for Tom any color in terms of how we should be thinking about comp and expense growth more broadly just as we look out to the rest of the year particularly in light of some of the seasonality in the first quarter? Yeah well of course the first quarter was up and would probably give a range of comp and related from next quarter of between $74 million and $75 million.
We keep looking at increased sales which is one of my old success items we’re happy when that expense goes up because it means we’re getting more assets.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Surinder Thind with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
I was hoping you can just kind of walk me through some of the underlying trends that you’re kind of seeing in the institutional business and maybe kind of investor appetite for let's say equities versus fixed income and how that dynamic is changing? What we’re seeing in terms of RFP activity which I mentioned in the remarks is a pretty good increase when the number of RFPs were successfully responding to that we win but if we have a real good chance have doubled.
And so what this is simply the result of the lot of good mandate.
It isn’t any one mandate that’s driving the truck.
So we’re seeing it in a number of mandates whether it is international leaders increased interest in MDT which is quite obviously a strategic value dividend.
Kaufman Enterprise Clover Small Cap and it isn’t necessarily the story of a complete re-risking in the marketplace although it continues to move ahead.
All these various market moves have encouraged people and we are seeing some aspects of an increasing willingness to take on more types of risk.
But it is not a big accelerant and it doesn’t push the needle all the way to the other side.
But we do see it moving but what mostly is being rewarded is long-term basic blocking and tackling and producing the kinds of records and then the numbers of mandates that I talked about in the call.
That is the real trend.
And Surinder its Ray.
I’d just add it is multiple strategy as we went through.
There is no un-notable increase in the international component both the international dividend strategy that we have and the ease of large foreign blend strategy.
We’re seeing a pretty good step up on both of those fronts.
Well that’s helpful.
And then maybe just touching base I think you mentioned that there’s going to be a number of new announcements regarding kind of your new product set for the money market reform.
When should we -- is that more about just product starting to being launched starting around 3Q and stuff or when should we expect to see that you’ll kind of have all of your products in place? What we've said is that at the fund Board meetings which is mid-May so that’s coming up in a couple of weeks here we will go to the Board with the proposals as to which funds will end up in which category.
We have already announced the types of buckets and the types of funds that we will have and so we’re sticking with that and now we’re putting the finishing touches on getting clearance from the Boards that this particular fund will be a retail fund this particular fund will be an institutional fund this fund will be a 60-day fund etcetera.
And I won’t commit to a time right now but it will be sometime after that Board Meeting when will say which funds are going to be going in which direction and it maybe that there are more than one announcements that come out.
In addition we have a large proxy that we’re working on for our one fund that has several portfolios in it equal to 175 or so billion of our money fund assets and so that is a big effort to get that proxy statement done and that will be occurring.
We’ll also have seven or so fund mergers and will probably spawn 20 or 22 new classes.
So there will be a lot of those kinds of changes and they may take enough time that we go through and have more than one announcement about what’s going on and the proxy statement of course itself will be a large and substantial public announcement.
Okay that’s helpful.
That’s it from me guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
So little twist on Michael’s earlier question so observing the shift from prime to govi I guess this is for Debbie how much do you expect the shift will impact short-term rates and how big a gap starts to emerge between fed funds in very short term rates? Does that dynamic actually start to pop out that spread between the two? Well first of all I do think it all be occurring at a point in the time when the Fed is in play from an increasing rate environment.
So that’s always a helpful time and a helpful undertaking.
So it's not as if we’re thinking that government yields will go yet further lower while prime yields shoot out.
We in fact think that all types of yields will be increasing at that point in time but with perhaps the prime side increasing a little bit more.
We do think that the supply on the government side is beneficial for keeping those rates in a positive trajectory certainly what we have been looking at in the context of treasury supply is pretty positive.
There is a huge amount of coupon that’s rolling into one year maturities in 2015 and 2016 so that’s a big positive for supply.
In addition to the treasury itself expecting increases in the bill supply and in the treasury floater supply.
So those are all be helpful in keeping governments going in the right direction.
From a spread differential perspective between prime and government like I said before it's definitely going to increase.
I can’t think unless assets don’t move unless there is enough client education and comparability with the product mix as it changes in 2016 leading up to in post the October implementation time period then we’re going to see spreads increasing in some way shape or form.
From 12 to 20 to 40 I don’t know exactly where it stops but at some point there is a trade off that customers who chose to go into the government option then don’t need to will want to rethink and relook at their other options in the marketplace because the differential is now large enough.
Historically that’s been somewhere in the 20 25 basis point range but could be different and certainly in the context that we've been at zero for so long who knows what holds going forward.
But it's not that we think that there will be government yields going in one direction while prime goes in the other.
We do think that they will both be listing but with a spread differential that probably favors prime going up a little bit higher.
Okay.
And then can the Fed use reverse repos to may be better narrow any spread that emerges between and I was thinking more like treasuries in Fed funds as opposed to CP in Fed funds but really on the government side and the dynamics that could play out there like is there potential there to not buy that.
Yes no absolutely we think that that’s the other big positive in the supply on the supply side of the equation.
As I said treasury issuance and rolling in a coupon that is a positive but the reverse repo available from the New York Fed is also a huge one.
Currently it’s capped at $300 billion in total on overnight and they’ve offered somewhere in the $100 billion to $300 billion range at various points in time on term.
They’ve $4 trillion supply on their balance sheet.
So there is very -- we expect that there will be upward movement and that that will indeed help satisfy and keep any dislocations out of the marketplace.
When we think of a rising rate environment traditionally we think as the Fed funds rates going up and everything adjusting by 25 basis points.
In this case what we think we’re going to see when the Fed does begin to raise rates is something that keeps reverse repo at the bottom of that range.
So let's say they go to a 25 to 50 basis point range probably puts reverse repo from the Fed at five basis points term reverse repo and Fed funds at about 10 basis points.
Interest on excess reverses at the top of the list at 25 basis points and all right at 50 basis point and all of that I think is being coordinated by those various tools from the Fed.
The largest of which seems to be at this point the reverse repo facility.
Okay great thank you.
And then may be for Chris assuming I did the math correct on the management fee rate if I back out the negative impact to fee waivers and I count for days it looks like the management fee rate went down.
Given mix towards equities I would have expected it to go up again assuming I did this correct what’s going on behind that scenes to drive that decline? Hi Ken its Ray.
On the blended fee rates for and taking the money funds out of it and on equities it looks like the decrease was something like half of a basis point and that would just be mix.
Talking about things like the SMA growth and the separate accounts and here I’m just talking about the fund portion within the funds we would have had a slight decrease on an overall basis looking for the number here.
Yeah not really much change and so it’s really just a mix of products it's not anything more complicated than that.
Okay but on the mix well at least I’m looking at the assets classes the equity bucket increased more than the fixed income in money market bucket on an average basis.
So I would think that mix would have helped not hurt unless there was a massive shift within each bucket.
You had mentioned before about not capturing all of the fee waiver recovery.
I was thinking maybe there was something there that it already started to shift within money market fund rates any merits there or… No nothing there because that’s really predicated on rates increasing more than they did in Q1.
Looking at the equity blended rate it was three tenths of a basis points.
So it's just not much of a move and that was downward three tenth.
So even though equity was higher it came in a little bit.
Okay.
I'll work with you offline on it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Patrick Davitt with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Okay.
Good morning guys.
Thanks.
Since announcing last quarter the large renegotiation on the distribution side have you see any other large clients approach you about negotiating similar deals and/or are you concerned about that and I guess more publically out there? No and no.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Lee with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Please proceed with your questions.
Great thank you and good morning guys.
Just Tom if you could just clarify from which I understand it there was some distributional related was it comp that moved from other expenses to distribution? Commissions commissions that we had in other and I guess just help.
We just started better better understandable in distribution line.
Okay so how did those commissions differ from you mentioned comp guidance for second quarter I guess it was 74 75 partially due to better sales I was just trying to understand why there is some commissions at both the distribution some that go through comp and that both seem to sales related.
Didn't have anything to do with comp Rob.
Its commissions that we paid to the intermediaries nothing to do with compensation.
Okay so all right.
I was mixing two.
Okay.
Let’s see okay and I guess another question just kind of I guess hypothetically so it's tough to do hypothetical but when the fee waivers start to move away obviously start to recapture not recapture but possibility starts to improve.
So should we be thinking that when that in the starts to occur that because overall foreign profitabilities going to expand that will also see some offset partial offset against that in comp just as kind of maybe comp pools if it takes something maybe based on kind of pretax operating income or something will expand as well maybe not unlock that but we could see compensation expenses rise as well? Yes Rob the investment management pools aren’t really related to that.
The sales incentive pools aren’t really related to that.
The kind of the rest of the company does have a -- how is the company doing? So if the company is doing better i.e.
there are less waivers and we’re earning more I would expect that that would get reflected in incentive comp for kind of the rest of this flood.
Okay.
And we will reflect that every quarter because we have to put an estimate in every quarter in what we think our compensation levels are going to be and they raise rates we will look at what we think comp will be and you will see right away.
Okay thanks.
And one last question maybe for Chris talked about some of the RFP activity in the separate account business I guess unless I missed the comments I know you were pretty focused on the equities business which is doing well and you had some success in fixed income but I guess it seems that there was less commentary at least this quarter around that business.
So can you maybe update us unless I missed the kind of how pipelines are in the fixed income separate count business kind of what you’re seeing there? Rob we did announced the West Virginia win which is a $1.2 billion we will be funding here in the third quarter.
On the high yield side we have had some good success internationally and are commencing a road show over there with the new client on high yields so that’s a pretty good thing.
So there are activities in the fixed income side and I did comment on some of them in the remarks.
And Rob we still see elevated activity on the total returned side.
RFP activity as well as fund flows and some institutional activity there that ends up coming into on the fund side of the product line things like consultants recommending us to their clients where we’re still working through what we expect to continue to see some elevated flows as we’re seeing over the last several quarters.
Okay thanks and then I lied I do have one last question.
I guess the SEC recently released its responses to frequently asked questions as it relates to the money fund reform and just curious if there was anything in their responses that you thought was a surprise or made you making kind of go back and rethink or re-jigger some of your good plans of reshaping the product line? Well one of the reasons Debbie is on the phone here is because she is in Washington with ICI and SEC people in order to go over this.
As you know this came out couple of days ago so there is still some work to be done.
At this point I don’t see anything in changing what we have determined we are going to do in terms of the kinds of funds that we’re going to offer.
In other words we’re still going to offer 60 day funds and as I mentioned we’re going to work on private funds we’re looking separate accounts and we’re going to have material way funds that’s what I call institutional prime funds and have a floating net asset value that are greater than 60 days.
So we’re going to score on all those streets.
When you say well what we’re some of the surprises well we were involved in asking a lot of those questions although the SEC puts some of their own questions in there really weren’t a lot of surprises it didn’t surprise us to make the prime government securities to include the fed repo program and trade receivables that you have when you’re selling governments and further as they continued an SEC policy of not including the 250 000 of FDIC insured CDs as a government security.
Okay so there were no surprises there.
On the definition of natural person and how it works in the retail fund I don’t know whether it was surprising or not that if you’re dead you are still a natural person but nonetheless that's your decision.
They did get into some sticky situations in terms of further commenting on beneficial owner and what that meant and that has to be sorted out.
We were very happy that they enable you to involuntarily redeem shareholders who don’t belong any given fund because traditionally the mutual funds don’t have that right and so that was very good.
We can’t understand why they wouldn’t let you just put them into a government fund if you’re taking them out of a prime fund it’s a lot easier for a lot of our customers to just take and exchange into a government fund but they say you basically have to send them a check.
So that wasn’t all that hot.
It was interesting to note that on the 60 day funds they’ve gotten into the communication and marketing of it and here you’re not permitted to say that you seek to maintain a $1 net asset value on your 60 day fund.
Regardless of whatever intents you have or however Debbie is managing the fund you’re not allowed to say that and further you must say that the NAV will fluctuate and so you have these two things to deal with.
This will require increased education and that’s why I said in answer to an earlier question that once people see how these products work the education is complete the dust settles then people can logically see how these things are all being interpreted.
So those were -- those were some of them.
There were a lot of other ones too but you asked about the bigger ones and the ones that may have been a little different than what might have been expected that would be my list.
Debbie you're allowed to add any if you wish.
No you hit on the highest priority ones Chris.
There were some disclosure on what is considered financial support and would be required to be reported on the website and telegraphed out to client and what if not being operational errors not being fund mergers that are topped off in order to make the NAV that those merging products the same that was all as expected.
Some clarification around the stress testing and some of the inconsistencies about different parts of implementation periods all of which had been I think pretty much expected.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Appreciate it.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Okay thanks so much.
Just staying on the money markets I want to come out a little bit differently.
Can you give us an update sense of what percentage of the assets likely could be in motion as we work through the implementation process and you have a little bit more visibility to type of products that are out there and then what do you think would be the normalized yield adjusting for few waivers.
So putting fee waivers aside and adding them back just giving what would likely be a shift of the product mix and then little more broad and maybe little more uncertain with the Department of Labor coming out with their fiduciaries reform discussion a week or so ago can you talk about what kind of risk there might be to money market business broadly where a distribution closed somewhere in the high side relative to the management fee? Let’s deal with -- I think there are at least three questions baked in that and I'll deal with the last one first which is what about the DOL definition of fiduciary and how will that impact money market funds specifically? And the DOL definition of fiduciary we don’t think will affect the money market fund as we see it and right you can get into the question inside both the lawsuits that are going on in this area and inside what is the best interest of shareholders as compared to suitability.
But I think that you’ll be able to see at least we will -- have been able to see that not much will change in terms of intermediary payments and activity here.
I think what will happen in this industry and this is something that we’ve been in favor of for some considerable amount of time.
Is it intermediaries who are receiving various payments for various services on money funds whether it is for a retirement account or not ought to be thinking about how they justify and allocate their own expenses in terms of receiving those amounts in any event.
And I think that this effort will accelerate that as a response from various people in the marketplace because it is very expensive for the intermediaries to handle the accounts especially on the cash management side.
So at this point even though it’s early on in the sequence and even though the dust hasn’t settled on its implementation that’s how I would look at that.
In terms of amount of money in motion from an industry standpoint on the money fund side we’ve heard estimates from $100 billion to $500 billion of money moving from prime to govi on an initial basis.
And I can’t really put my finger on either side of that or come up with a good estimate myself.
In terms of our own clients I will comment and then I'll let Debbie comment and let her handle the rate part of your question.
But what we’ve been having discussions with some of our larger clients is an increasing balances because of the Basel III impact of non-operational deposits being unflavored by the banks and so that factor has been very large.
In terms of clients they’re waiting to see how the dust settles.
So I’m not able to say what exactly our client base will do and believe me we talk to them quite often but they look at cash management as something that’s simple and that’s done and they’ll decide when they have to.
So I don’t have a precise answer on what amount of our clients will go in which direction.
Debbie? I think in the hundreds of conversations with individual clients that I’ve had and obviously continuous discussion and dialogue around it with our sales people I would say that from a retail prime perspective that there will be something on the order of maybe 10% of those assets from a Federated standpoint shifting into something other than where they are now in that prime retail category.
And it mostly has to do with broker-dealer sweep and the context of the fees engaged potentially being an impetus for them to move into a product that doesn’t have fees engaged.
The vast majority of our intermediaries that offer that service won’t have an issue with it but we found a few that likely could.
On the higher side so that's sort of the low end of estimation of assets switching and money in motion.
On the higher end we’re probably up in the third of the assets that would be and what would be our true institutional clients most of them retaining the capability.
To me - to stay in an institutional prime fund both with regard to the floating NAV as well as with regard to the gates and fees but perhaps wanting to take a little bit of a hiatus and see what happens as that money is in motion as the impact in the broader short-term markets is assessed utilizing the Fed river program looking at what happens from a supply perspective? Does it increase enough in the govi side? Is it stagnant or decreasing on the prime side.
How does that all hold out? So I think we have a variation depending upon the types of clients and I think that’s probably ranging somewhere in the 10% up to 30% 35% 40% range with the initial money in motion change.
And then with ultimately some of the portion of that going back into their original type of product at some point when spread to widen out.
What that takes from a spread perspective is hard to say.
I do think that we'll go into it.
Our official outlook at this point is that we’re into the September time period for the Fed to lift off and initiate their increasing rate program.
And if that impact is the case that still a year in advance when the money in motion have to be at its peak to meet the demands of implementation time period of April 14 2016 to the 2A7 reforms.
So I think you’re probably looking at something initially with the Fed lifting off going back to the historic norm 12 to 15 basis points maybe in differential between prime and govi.
But then I think slowly as we work through 2016 that spread will start to increase until gets to a point where it’s too high and money starts to go back the other way probably not until 2017.
I don’t know what that too high number is.
It’s just really hard to say.
I think if you looked at it in historic periods when there’s been a panic in the marketplace because there’s been a credit event.
So the 2008 time period and even 2007 when money markets were impacted by the SIV problems in the marketplace and ABCP you had investors that voluntarily chose to leave very high spread products from a prime perspective and go into the safety of governments.
And that’s because they were afraid of what's transpiring from more of an industry and a current problem that was happening in those '07 and '08 marketplaces.
We’re not anticipating that being the case in 2016 in 2015.
We’re just anticipating this to be the operational difficulties of these new funds requirements by the SEC that I think are probably a lot easier to overcome than the concerns that would be have been '07 '08 types of concerns in the credit markets.
Thanks.
My question on the yield I’m sorry I may have misstated I’m really more concerned more interested in what do you think happens to the revenue? The management fee rate for Federates pro forma money market business once all the other products in money motion settle out left about the market spread I understand that concept ever since how it works the pricing for your business model? Well Bill that’s kind of hard to predict that far into the future.
We’ve looked at as we thought about the private accounts we’ve thought about those being priced comparable to the money market funds.
I don’t know that we see coming out of reform and the product changes coming out of reform as being an impetus for pricing changes.
Okay.
And just one other one for me just we have little time you mentioned in your remarks Chris that Q2 fixed income is slightly negative due to some seasonal pressure from the ultrashort what gives you confidence that this is just a seasonal dynamic? Because I would think if expectation will start to go up that might to able to relatively size negative for the bucket itself? Bill its Ray.
I’ll just point out the -- we saw just about the exact same thing last year in particular with the muni ultrashort fund which of course has a lot of clients who use it as an expansion of their cash management beyond money funds and those are wealthier folks who are paying taxes and pay it out of that municipal fund.
So the dynamic is the same as we’ve seen in particular last year as tax payments went up though that product in particular was affected more broadly on rising rates Chris do you want to comment on that.
Well most of the products on the broad fixed income side are well aware of what the Fed is thinking about and going through but yet there’re still people quite interested in high yield total return bond fund etcetera.
And as Ray was saying the ultrashort funds are a seasonal long cash type investment by the certain individuals and it is the flip side of what happens on the money market funds on the money market separate accounts with a gain on that on the other side of that.
So those will be my comments.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse Group.
Please proceed with your questions.
Thanks.
In you prepared remarks I heard you reiterate the 10 basis points 40% fee waiver guidance but I didn’t hear that 25 basis points 65% guidance from last call has you view here at all changed? That was the same guidance Craig.
There was no change there.
Got it and then this may be new or may not be but I heard your comments on the swell in government money market AUM and the spread between T-bills and reverse repos in fed funds would that actually impact your guidance as the spread through wide with short term rate increasing.
Yeah we put in the numbers and if the -- we put in 9 to 12 basis points on mortgage backs and two to 10 basis points on the T- bills which were three to six months if those go up it will be better.
I think what you want to think about here is that the bulk of the waiver recovery happens pretty quickly and so what Debbie is talking about longer term trends out into '16 and '17 and spreads widening and then coming back in our expectation will be that we will have been past certainly the first ten basis points 25 basis points or more by then and so the vast majority of the waivers will have been -- will not be a factor at that point.
And then if I look at the margin on the fee waiver it's about 31% today but if you look at the improvement over last year the incremental margin on the improvement in revenue was much lower 23% do you know why this was? Was it maybe mix shift or was there some maybe early fee concessions there with the intermediaries I just want to hear what you've got.
While we've said that the recovery is not linear each product has a different profile and so that will be kind of difficult analysis to go through here but that would be something I would be happy to talk to you about offline.
Got it and just one quickly asked question how are flows tracking quarter data could you actually give us a number or kind of a rough feel and maybe I missed that earlier in the call.
Well yes we did.
We are very very happy with equity flows at this point in the second quarter and I’m trying to see.
So equities are positive? What I said was that they were solidly positive in the second quarter and there is over a $100 million through April 17 and it’s basically the same mostly the same strategies that were leading the pack in Q1 and then on the fixed income side to repeat they were negative primarily driven by that ultra-sort discussion we just had.
Got it and combined do we know if it’s positive or negative? Combined the fixed income is more negative than the equity again with -- we’re looking at numbers through April 17 so we’re at the kind of the peak of the tax impact.
Great thanks guys for taking my questions.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thanks guys.
Just have two quick ones first when you guys give the what you can recoup in the waiver like the 75% I think we're all kind of doing the math on are the new products going to have similar fees and what will shift from prime to say government.
And obviously a lot of that's in motion and we'll find out over the year or so but in terms of the conversations with the client on fees has most of that on the current price has most of that taken place so you’re pretty good with that 75% ex some big shift happening in the types of assets or other comparative pressures.
We're pretty comfortable with that.
We run through it on two calls now so we've two big chances to decan it and that’s where we are.
Okay alright that’s good.
And then on the equity side of the business so I think you mentioned in terms of where your flows are in the organic growth relative to the industry things are really strong.
You guys have done a lot on the distribution side over the past couple years in terms of expanding that.
Do you see more that can be done when you look at the different channels and how you’re stacking up either to some of the competition given the demand that you’re seeing in the products because there is more in the pipeline or do you feel like a lot of those investments are in the distribution side are in place and we’re seeing the benefits now? I think that as some of those sales people that were added mature you’re going to see more growth coming out of them as they move up to the accomplishments which we had planned.
What we’ve seen just recently quarter-to-quarter is basically a 1 000 -- an increase in a 1 000 financial advisors FAs doing business with us so that -- you’re beginning to see that.
And I think there are also expansions available not just in who we do business with but going from one product to two products to three products.
It’s not unlike same-store sales and you can see plenty of room for growth there as well.
Now we have taken the sales force up to where it’s now about 211 people and we don’t have any current time to add dramatically to that.
We recently added as I had mentioned on previous calls an individual for Latin America and we did add the people in -- two individuals in Canada and we’re seeing very good growth in Canada where the assets are now about a $1.5 billion and say in the end of '13 that were a little over $1 billion and in '12 they were at about $600 million.
So we’re looking for some pretty good growth there which is why we’re putting that new fund together.
So that’s where I view we don’t have any big plans on a whole lot of new sales people to add at this point.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question is from the line of Jonathan Casteleyn with Hedgeye Risk Management.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to zoom out for a second and just assuming that your fee waivers burn off and obviously you adjust your comp higher over time what do you think normalized operating margins are for the business say 12 months plus out? Well.
Yes adjusted comp up remember it’s not going to be a sales incentive comp change.
It’s not going to be investment management and so it can’t really a big adjustment that we’re talking about.
And in terms of the margins the way that I would look at that is once the -- you do the margin on a little chart that we gave in the press release and so it will help the margin.
What are your operating margin targets for fully-loaded Federated? Are they -- can we get to 30% 35% I’m just curious as to longer term what you think the operating margin opportunity is for the company? The industry is certainly higher than 30 and why shouldn’t we have an industry-like margin? So we've been -- it's been difficult with the waiver situation to maintain that but we think we certainly ought to have a higher margin and the growth in the equity ought to carry the data when things return to normal on interest rates.
Okay.
And then some of the money center banks have been talking about non-core deposits being deemphasized they're taken off regulatory charges over time JPMorgan put out a $100 billion number as far as a non-core deposit emphasis and they have about 10% market share.
So that would gross up to about a trillion dollar opportunity.
Is that pool of money an opportunity for money funds as you see it and if so how are you preparing for it? Yes it is.
In fact I have made the comment various times that I felt the reason that the Fed wanted to deal with money funds first before they dealt with their LCR rules was because they knew that the money funds would be a very worthy home for some of this money.
And so yes it is and as I mentioned earlier in some of the responses to questions some of the meetings we had with some of the larger clients have been on exactly this issue.
So now it becomes a question as to when that money has moved out and that’s based on each individual client and each individual bank as they look at the timing and their relationship with each of those clients and the extent to which they want to deal with them and that’s all based on their time.
I can’t comment on how you got the trillion dollars.
I think it’s big in terms of an opportunity.
But don’t forget that those banks are going to be doing everything they can to somehow keep that money in the family in some way meaning their own family that doesn’t negatively impact their capital the ratios or how they run their business.
So they’re going to want to try to keep it so and they already have it but on the other hand that’s why they’re talking to us because we’re a warm and loving home.
So I can’t put a number on what we’ll get.
But there is a substantial opportunity and that’s why I said at one point that I believe in the post 2016 environment you will see up assets in money funds as Federated.
Understood and then thanks.
Lastly for Debbie I mean everyone seems to be a Fed head and analyzing docs etcetera I’m just curious because you deal in the short-term rate environment everyday as to what you think participants are baking on as far as timing from the Fed i.e.
when do you think that the first move will come as expressed by market participants that you deal with everyday? We're in the fall camp the September-October timeframe from an FOMC meeting standpoint.
That’s pretty much in agreement with what we have seen in the marketplace generally with Fed fund future or as treasury future that sort of thing.
If you look thought over the last quarter and really year-to-date over 2015 we’ve already gained eight basis points in steepness essentially from overnight out to a year.
And what that means is we’re seeing higher yields already in anticipation and eight basis points is not a move but it’s a third of a move and the answer is from the 12 months part of the curve.
But other the six month part was up five basis points and the shorter up a little bit less.
But I sometimes gauge these things and what the market is expecting by what’s happening from our trading room personnel and essentially they’re smiling at this point because every additional dollar that they get to invest every additional maturity that they have that needs to be reinvested they’re putting it to work in a marketplace that gives them a positive benefit over what just was maturing off in the portfolio.
So they’re adding value.
They’re increasing yields as they do their daily business of keeping these funds 100% invested.
So even though the Fed is delayed and our initial thought six months ago would have been that in June was when we would have seen the first lift off.
We’re still at least seeing the expectation of it positively accrue to the yields of the funds at this point.
Great.
Thanks for your time.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
At this time I’ll turn the floor back to Mr.
Ray Hanley for closing comments.
Well that concludes our call and we thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And we thank you for your participation today… Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors' Third Quarter 2015 Analyst Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Ray Hanley President of Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today’s call will be Chris Donahue Federated CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer; and joining us for the Q&amp;A is Debbie Cunningham Chief Investment Officer for Money Markets.
During today’s call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated’s actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
Chris? Thank you Ray and good morning.
I will briefly review Federated’s business performance and then Tom will comment on our financial results.
I will begin by reviewing our equity business.
Third quarter equity market conditions were quite challenging as the S&amp;P was down over 6% and the industry experienced net outflows in equity mutual funds.
Federated's equity fund product breadth and strength allowed us to produce another quarter of solid net inflows.
In fact Federated has produced net positive equity flows for eight consecutive quarters.
Total Q3 equity net sales for fund and separate accounts combined were $527 million.
Federated's equity fund organic growth rate of 4.7% for Q3 annualized was again among the best in the industry.
Based on strategic insights data our third quarter equity fund net flows ranked in the top 3% of the industry that puts us 20th out of 757 companies.
Our equity business continues to be very well-positioned with a variety of strategies producing solid performance and sales results.
Using Morningstar data for rank funds as of quarter end six Federated funds or 23% were in the top decile for the trailing three years.
We had 13 funds or 50% in the top quartile and about three-fourth in the top half for the trailing three years.
Performance highlights includes Kaufmann Large Cap Funds in the top decile for the trailing three and five years and the International Leaders Fund which is a foreign large cap blend strategy in the top 5% or better for the trailing three five and 10 years.
Four of our MDT strategies were top decile for the trailing three years including the MDT Stock Large Cap Value Fund and the MDT All Cap Core Fund.
Our absolute return funds has developed a top quartile one and three year record in the market neutral alternative category and the Global Allocation Fund gives us another solid solutions oriented strategy within its top quartile one three and five year record.
These performance results highlight the breadth and strength of our equity product lines and position us for growth in multiple equity strategies.
In the third quarter more than half of our actively managed equity fund strategies had net positive sales Kaufmann Large Cap International Leaders Kaufmann Small Cap Prudent Bear MDT stock Absolute Return Global Allocation and Managed Volatility II Funds.
Equity's separate account net sales were driven by two large EFA wins that funded for about $350 million partially offset by net outflows in sub advised and SMA strategies.
Equity fund net sales are positive early in the fourth quarter about $38 million through 10/16.
Now turning to fixed income.
Total net outflows of $594 million resulted from negative fund flows of $896 million partially offset by positive flows in separate accounts $302 million.
More than half of the fund's net outflows came from Ultrashort Bond funds which in time saw use as cash management vehicles for tax statements and other purposes.
However the Ultrashort Fund specifically and fixed income funds overall are slightly net positive early in the fourth quarter.
During the third quarter we saw net inflows in the Capital Preservation Fund our Sterling Cash Plus Fund and Floating Rate Strategic Income Fund among others.
High yield and total return bonds were negative.
However high yield cash returned to positive flows here early in the fourth quarter.
At quarter end we had nine fixed income strategies with top quartile three year records including strategies for high yield government mortgage and Munis.
Now looking at Money Markets.
Assets increased about $5 billion from the prior quarter.
Money Markets' share -- Money Markets funds share at quarter end was just over 8%.
Money Markets mutual fund assets increased by about $7.5 billion including approximately $3.7 billion transitioned from the Reich &amp; Tang Asset Management transaction.
In our cash separate account business we added the West Virginia local government investment pool which funded at about $1 billion during the third quarter.
We continue the substantial effort necessary to adjust our product offerings well in advance of the October 2016 requirements for floating NAVs for Institutional Prime and Muni funds.
We are working to have products in place to address the cash management needs of all our Money Market clients.
We expect to offer prime and Muni Money Market funds and meet the new requirements as well as government money funds separate accounts and offshore money funds.
We continue to work on our privately placed funds for qualified institutional investors who are either unable or unwilling to use money funds as modified by the new rules.
In addition to the Reich &amp; Tang transfers we announced an agreement with Huntington to transition $1.1 billion in Money Market assets in the fourth quarter.
Interest levels and discussions around Money Market consolidation remains elevated.
Taking a look now at our most recent asset totals.
As of October 21st managed assets were approximately $355 billion including $249 billion in Money Markets $54 billion in equities $52 billion in fixed income.
Money Market mutual fund assets were $219 billion and the October average for Money Market fund assets is about $218 billion.
Looking at distribution; solid results from each of our sales divisions drove the successful Q3 equity fund sales results.
In the SMA business net sales were slightly negative and have moved back to positive in the early part of the fourth quarter.
Total SMA assets ended the quarter at $16 billion with most of this in equities.
Assets here are up about 7% year-over-year and are up 75% over the past three years.
Federated ranked 7th in the Cerulli Associates rankings of the largest SMA managers at the end of the second quarter which is the most recent data available.
I mention two significant EFA separate account wins funded in the third quarter for $350 million.
We are just starting to win business in this large category and are optimistic about this area where we have a solid long-term performance record.
Fixed income separate accounts had over $300 million in net sales in the third quarter and we have $30 million yet to fund in the fourth quarter.
RFP activity remains solid and diversified with interest in EFA value dividend and growth strategies for equities and high yield and short duration for fixed income.
Our equity RFP activity is up about 50 -- 56% year-over-year.
On the international side we are planning to register a Canadian domiciled strategic value dividend fund product before year end with the sales efforts to commence in the first quarter of 2016.
We're looking to accelerate the good growth we've seen in Canada in our SMA business and the recent EFA institutional wins.
Assets in Canada are up from $633 billion at the end of '12 a little over $1 billion at the end of '13 and now stand at over $1.5 billion.
We have had success in Europe with the rollout of a sub-advised high yield product with a large private bank.
Assets here have grown to $250 million over a couple of quarters.
The product was recently launched in Asia and the Middle East as our September roadshow went to Hong Kong Singapore and Dubai.
We also added $200 million Euro fixed income separate account in Germany in Q3 and are looking for additional institutional wins.
We continue to seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Europe and the Asia-Pac region as well as in the U.S.
the rest of the Americas.
Tom? Thank you Chris.
Revenue was up 8% compared to Q3 of last year due mainly to lower money fund yield related fee waivers and higher equity managed assets.
Revenue increased 3% from the prior quarter due mainly to higher money fund assets including assets from the Reich &amp; Tang acquisition and an additional day in the quarter.
Equities contributed 46% of Q3 revenues again the highest percentage among the various asset classes.
Combined equity and fixed-income revenues were 67% of the total.
Operating expenses increased 3% compared to Q3 of last year due mainly to higher Money Market fund distribution expense as a result of lower waivers.
Operating expenses increased slightly from the prior quarter due mainly to higher distribution expense as a result of higher money fund assets and an additional day in the quarter.
The pretax impact of money fund yield related fee waivers of $20.3 million was down from the prior quarter and Q3 of last year.
The decreases were due mainly to higher fund gross yields.
Based on current assets and yields the impact of these waivers to pretax income in Q4 is expected to be about the same as was in Q3.
Looking forward we estimate that gaining 10 basis points in gross yields from beginning Q3 levels would likely reduce the impacts of yield waivers by about 45% and a 25 basis point increase would reduce the impact by about 65%.
We expect to capture about two-thirds of the pretax income related to the remaining money fund yield waivers.
Multiple factors affect the yield related waiver levels and the ability to capture related income going forward.
These factors include changes in customer relationship fund asset levels available yields for investments actions by regulators changes in the expense level of the funds changes in the mix of customer assets changes in product structure changes in distribution fee arrangements with third parties Federated's willingness to continue the fee waiver and changes in the extent to which the impact of the waivers is shared by third parties.
We expect these factors and their impacts to vary.
The Q3 effective tax rate was approximately 37%.
Year-to-date the tax rate is about 38% and that continues to be our expectation going forward.
Looking at the balance sheet; cash and investments totaled $322 million at quarter end of which $309 million is available to us.
We would now like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Appreciate the opportunity.
So just Tom perhaps when you ended on the fee waivers did I heard you correctly your sort of guidance of recapturing two-thirds as rates normalized.
I think that's down from three quarters in the last guidance.
Can you talk about maybe what the delta might be? And then stepping back a number of your competitors both in the traditional asset managed base and elsewhere have been talking about possibly delaying or not going after the fee waivers from a competitor perspective so how do we think about the other two thirds at this point? Yes.
When you say capture the remaining so the sole concept of capturing from the past is all the future that we are talking about.
Just making sure we all realize that.
In terms of moving from 75% to two-thirds of what we have recaptured that's the -- technically the product or the clients' relationship that have been finalized and when it can finalize that's when it will -- that's why it moves down so as we are recapturing things now it's not affecting us.
How much of a big picture perspective I'm not sure I understand that.
How about some big picture perspective just the thought of perhaps limiting the recovery of the go forward fee waiver just from a competitive perspective can't you take some market share.
It seems like some of your peers might be looking at these price as a weapon to take some volume? Bill this is Chris.
The overall perspective there would go as follows.
As Tom said the concept of recapturing old fees waived is a non-concept both because the structure of an investment company and because of the existence of a free and open and competitive market place.
So then yes we have seen it ever the case that people have an inclination to want to use pricing to try and capture share and this is not our idea at all.
What you are seeing that has dwarfed that concept is that the old estimates used to be that the $500 billion move from prime institutional into [govie] now you are seeing estimates in the $1 trillion range which would put it at two-thirds of the total and this perforce because of the pricing of government funds will have an impact there.
But we are not going to be using these as weapons or strategies nor to gain share by reducing price or not allowing the price to go back where it would have gone if they ever decide to raise rates.
Okay.
Then just a follow-up question on Money Markets.
Just coming back to some of these anticipated changes for next year.
What is your sense from the client base in terms of which way they might be leaning? Obviously there's a lot of different selections for them and then how do the economics of those products compare to the legacy businesses? Well in terms of discussion with clients about how they're leaning they're leaning every which way and some of them have not yet jumped on the bandwagon of figuring out what to do.
Others of them have decided that they definitely want a stable NAV at any cost at any situation because as you have heard me say on these calls before a lot of these money fund clients are looking for a cash management service which implies dollar in dollar out and that would tend to push them into government funds.
We are seeing viability for other types of products private funds perhaps even the 60 day funds because after the first consideration of stable NAV the yield does become an important second consideration.
We have seen with clients who sweep that they either don't want to mess around with a floating NAV or they don't want to change their systems in order to do a sweep.
And so those clients are not going to be utilizing the old standard products and they're going to be heading primarily towards retail products where ever they can as opposed to the institutional.
Now in terms of how this all lines up we don't think there's going to be a whole lot of difference between what's here and what was in the legacy business.
The recapture rate that we are mentioning is an issue with the client in terms of what that deal is but beyond that when we are looking at developing the private fund and the pricing thereof we are looking at the standard type pricing that we have now.
This is not to say that we can't and won't be in a position to respond if others decide to go another way but that's currently how we're looking at it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Kim with Sandler O'Neill &amp; Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys good morning.
First just curious to maybe get your thoughts on the recent announcement of the upcoming retirement ahead of the strategic value dividend team particularly as it relates to potential impact to volumes or flows across the mutual funds' managed accounts and institutional separate accounts just given sort of the pending transition? Yes.
This is Chris.
Walter Bean has had an exceptional career and part of that exceptional career just isn't the development of the record and the assets and the flows but also the people that work with him.
And so the team of Dan Peris and Debbie are an outstanding team and as you may recall Dan Peris has published two books over the last several years putting the academic and scientific aspects of their investment strategy into print.
And so far this is something that we obviously plan for because age does not wait for anyone and we allow graduations here and this is what Walter Bean is availing himself of and so we have not yet seen any change in the flow of assets nor in the interest in the product.
And as I mentioned during my remarks we are expanding of the capacity of this particular strategy up into the Canadian marketplace with full anticipation that we will be able to continue to grow that franchise.
So we are very thankful of Walter's participation wish him well in his retirement and intend to roast him at his departure moment.
Fair enough.
Then maybe one or two for Tom.
Any commentary on sort of the outlook for expenses more broadly just given the ongoing market volatility? And then any specifics in terms of the comp line as we look into the fourth quarter and beyond.
Yes.
In terms of the waivers we have already given our commentary on that.
In terms of other expenses we still have been pretty active on continuing to manage expenses.
You saw the margin pick up while we are not declaring victory there we were happy with that.
In terms of comp it's just like the waivers those things can change.
Understood.
Okay and then just lastly one of the key themes that we've seen across the firms that have reported thus far has been considerable step up in share repurchase activity last quarter.
So I know you guys take a bit of a more balanced capital managed approach and the total payout ratio remains high but just wondering if you're thinking has shifted at all as it relates to maybe putting a bit more of an emphasis on buybacks prospectively? Well we did -- you saw we did purchase over 500 000 shares and they are up from 300 previous quarters and I wouldn't be surprised if that would continue.
We look at how much -- of a number of different factors we go through.
We have our models and start off with is it a good investment and where are the risk and balances and so we have remained active all the way through.
And then in terms of how much you're buying the factor of how much shares we are issuing we don't like the share count to go up.
So that's a constant battle of having to buy shares to make sure that doesn't happen.
And we were happy to be able to move up to the 500 level and actually mix a little bit of the share count growth.
But we do run the model stance is this a good investment and that's our fundamental thought process.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
First on fee waivers the impact on Federated revenue improved slightly and that's completely intuitive but the cost of distribution went up in the other direction which is unintuitive.
So I guess how does that happen in the first place to have distribution actually get hurt when Federated achieves a benefit and I guess is it just one time and I assume we won't see that again but what is the outlook there? Ken it's Ray.
I think what you're seeing there is a lot of it is the impact of bringing in the new assets through the Reich &amp; Tang acquisition.
They would've had their own characteristics in terms of revenue and distribution expense.
If you look at it overall the waivers the pretax impact the impact of Federated was about 24% of the revenue that we waived and so that was down sequentially and down year-over-year.
So that the portion that has affected us has actually gotten better but specifically on the line items you're talking about I think we're getting some acquisition impact for this particular quarter.
Okay.
So I actually figured that out.
Okay.
Thank you there.
Then near high level performances fund performance -- product performances good compensation flat to down non-distribution costs kind of flat.
You then have been kind of investing in certain areas of the business what levers are you pulling to kind of manage compensation and manage other expenses while you are kind of investing certain parts of the business? And then when you see higher rates there is going to be a revenue windfall are there projects that have been pushed back in the lower rate environment that you will expect to kind of be pursued when you get the kind of inevitable revenue windfall? Thanks.
First of all let me comment on the choice of vocabulary.
Not to quibble but when the revenue from our money funds is restored we don’t consider to windfall.
But I will let Tom talk about the mechanics you asked about.
Yes.
I am not -- in terms of trying to manage expenses it is across-the-board all the employees participating in things that they can figure they can delay but that doesn't mean that there is a build up expense thing to let's say delay that's going to come and rush out.
Things that they can delay and figure out how we don’t have to do is -- when we have replacements taking our time on replacing people which means employees here get to do job and a half for somebody else.
So that can save you decent amount of money and we continue that here for a while.
In terms of other expenses we are doing a big operation on upgrading all the investment management operations and that takes time and to figure it out there is going to be large dollars spent there but it's going to be spent over the next three to five years.
And so there is no big ramp up that we are expecting there either on the technology side.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
That was it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Robert.
Chris maybe a question for you on equity flows and sales.
So I mean sales in a pretty tough environment gross sales hold up pretty well.
Could you maybe give us a little bit more color or feel for which -- may be which distribution points or channels you're seeing kind of the most success in and I don't know if it's the old Edward Jones channel or RIAA's.
Is there any kind of color on kind of your thoughts around where the distribution successes are and where they may be opportunity is would be helpful? Well.
The first one I would mention would be that you remember a few years ago we talked about adding to the sales force in order to call on the broker/dealer area and that has worked out very very well.
Over the last couple of years we have increased the number of advisors that are actually doing business with us it's over 37 000 now.
Back several years ago that was under 30 000.
So that's been a very strong area for us and it is both in the direct IRA business and in the regular broker/dealer business.
It has been a big movement that cross hatches all of those areas and trusts along the lines of retirement and depending on who you talk to because it's very difficult to get these numbers and if I had good numbers I'd have good slides but I don't.
But the estimate for us is we have got just under 50% or over 50% of the business coming in retirement type money.
So that what happens is that when you do the hard work of getting on a platform then you get the automatic investments you get the reinvestments and these are very very important things.
And it's almost like if you don't get on the platforms you have a problem growing in existing and if you get on the platforms and continue the performance and continue the service that goes with it then that works very well too.
On the trust side what's going on there is a lot of concern about the fiduciary relationship and I'm not trying to get into the DOL thing on the broker/dealer side.
But there is a lot of concern about; okay what is our relationship with the clients are we following our duty of loyalty are we following our duty of prudence? And Federated does a lot of work on this as a value-add to the relationship that helps us very well in terms of the trust business and then by stepping stones over into the broker/dealer and RIAA business to do everything we can to try and get clients ready for what the DOL may come up with.
All right great.
And maybe I'm just kind of curious as we talked out of the punctured out the money fund business when do you think and then decide what types of products you know the institutions choose to go in.
So you have a lot of banks that want to get rid of deposits.
You've talked about that in the past.
Can you maybe give us updated thoughts on your current expectations when you may start to -- maybe you are seeing it or start feeling -- or start to see some of that cash move? You think it's more of a 2016 or maybe year end thing as when you could usually get a kind of year end surge in deposits to banks or money funds? Just your thoughts on that part.
That one Rob is hard to put an exact thing on.
Some of it has already moved into various elements into the direct marketplace for example.
Some -- there will be an effort around year end because the year-end becomes important to some of those banks in terms of removing that money from their balance sheet.
So that becomes another timeframe.
And I think it has to almost wait until the full maturity of the October 16th deadline for implementation of the new rules because that's when everybody really knows what everything is going to look like.
Now everyone of us who is in this business are going to try and get things organized well ahead of that but that's the point at which I have said before that I think you begin to see meaningful positive flows coming back into the money fund business and growth all around.
So right now obviously we are spending a lot of time as are others restructuring products talking to clients and they are trying to figure out exactly where to go.
We sit down with all these big banks who also are trying to get people off of their balance sheet and this is part of what informs our effort to create the products but it's really tough to say exactly when you begin to see that money.
And Debbie has a follow-up.
The only thing I would add is that as rates actually increase historically Money Market funds have lagged the direct market price.
We have already started to see yields increase on Money Markets products despite the fact that the Fed hasn't made a move yet.
But when that moves actually start in earnest even if it's at a slow pace the expectation is that Money Market funds are going to keep pace much more closely correlated than has historically been indicated and that certainly that's when you are going to see the deposits rates lag.
They are going to lag for two different reasons.
Number one banks don’t want those deposits anymore; and number two it's an administered rate so they can figure out a way that makes it easier for them to shed them in a rising rate environment especially when they are not keeping pace with that rise.
So we do think that the rising rate environment will begin that movement from that in a little bit more earnest.
Great and maybe one last question for Tom and this is a modeling question.
I've a follow-up to Ken's really.
When we look at the moderation of fee waivers I won't say recaptured it looks like most of that in your disclosures come out of -- been come through advisory fees.
If you look at kind of other service fees they have been remarkably stable or imagine your waiving has been remarkably stable kind of the last year-and-a-half despite the improvement in the fee waiver picture.
So is there -- I know there's a mix issue in there but if were thinking ahead and just trying to think about how this flows of the P&amp;L is it reasonable to think that hey that one-third of waivers that you're not going to recapture that we may -- somehow that's going to play through the other service fee lines as opposed to advisory fee lines.
I'm just trying to get a sense on how kind of the moving -- the pieces will move? Rob It's Ray.
We had talked in the past about the distribution expense being kind of a constant pressure and we talked about that potential to happen with in terms of discussions with a particular customer which are in flux and we don’t when or how that will play out.
I do think looking at this line item this particular period with the waivers of the other service fees essentially going out that does relate to the change in asset composition.
So I don’t know then we would get to the same modeling conclusion but that's something we can talk about offline.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you guys.
Chris you hit a little bit on the DOL but I guess you have got the DOL proposal and then more recently the SEC's come out with the liquidity proposal.
I know it's relatively early and all these are proposals but I just wanted to get your take on like maybe the liquidity side.
And then just on the DOL when you look at the distribution positioning for Federated where are the hurdles based on the current proposal? And how do you think that you're positioned if this goes through? Okay.
We will do liquidity first.
On the liquidity rule our attitude is that there is some good things there is some not some good things and there is some things that could go either way.
The good things are that it's the principles base operations.
So you get to use your judgment on to what percentage of your fund should have three day liquidity and that is a very good approach.
And the judgments are to be based on a lot of data a lot of which we have been utilizing here at Federated for some amount of time so as to do that kind of thing.
Obviously not with a precise number on the three-day.
So disclosure on this is a positive and targeting and maintaining liquidity levels is a good thing because it is -- back in the old days when I learned about the Investment Company Act the right of redemption was considered sacramental.
So that's pretty good.
Now in terms of things that aren't so hot the idea that you can put all equity securities and all fixed income securities into six buckets some based on business days some based on calendar days is a lot like measuring something with a ruler and then quoting it in inches.
It just doesn't work well and I understand that it's a great business for intermediaries to come in and say hey this is a wonderful thing to bucket everything.
So I think there's some challenges with that.
The thing that can go either way is the swing pricing a new concept.
Obviously it's worked over in some areas in Europe.
And my biggest concern about it is the timing and the investor education and understanding of what it will do.
The swing pricing has positive aspect in that the outgoing investor pays the expenses of transactions a given amount and obviously that adds an enhancement to the overall performance of the fund.
But when you change the net asset value that you quote to everybody and you don't know exactly what the rules are going to be because you are not supposed to tell people then investors have a little bit of a challenge about knowing what their NAV is either on the buy or the sell side.
So we're going to comment strongly that it would be unwise for the SEC to allow swing pricing to be available immediately after the rule goes into effect as I think it's going to take a lot longer in order to get the people the investing public up to the point where they will understand what's going on.
So that's kind of a real shorty on liquidity.
On the DOL our view is that based on Perez's statements that they are going to do something and despite the logic of waiting for the SEC to come up with a fiduciary rule and having only one standard instead of what amounts to three which will be a DOL standard a state law standard and an SEC standard I think they're going to proceed.
One of our comments to them has been that the whole focus of the DOL approach is then on the cost which has to do with the duty of loyalty and the duty of care and not really much on the duty of prudence.
And from the prudence question it is not answered by costs.
As the prudence question is a very important aspect of the whole fiduciary relationship and this simply hasn't been addressed.
We are having a conference on this coming up in mid-November.
We sent our comments into the SEC I mean to the DOL on this and whether this will open up things to another level of discussion I don't know.
So that's kind of our view on the rule.
Now because of what I said earlier about our experience in the trust and the work we have done on the subject we are in a very good position to help clients understand what needs to exist when as and if that rule comes out and puts a fiduciary burden on broker/dealers.
And I think we will be in about as good a position as anybody to help clients in this regard.
At least that's what we are preparing for.
Okay thanks.
And then Tom just had a quick follow-up.
When you gave the waiver outlook in terms of that two-thirds number I don't think that changed.
I just wanted to make sure because I think when I was just looking at what you said last quarter it seems pretty similar.
I think you were just saying that when the new client -- when that either starts that relationship and that's what you're expecting versus maybe the current 75%.
But I just wanted to make sure we had that right.
Yes.
And you are right.
It was -- we started out at 75% and that might have been a couple of quarters ago.
Got it okay.
I just wanted to clarify.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Surinder Thind with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning just a couple of different things to touch base on here.
One is just going to be simply expenses.
Can we talk a little bit about the professional services outlook going forward? Obviously related to the regulatory activity of the last few years and what's been going on that has been elevated how should we think about that in the outlying years in terms of 2016 and beyond? I had love to say we could -- we should drop that as things drop off but it never seems to happen.
Something new comes up and I just -- I had be hesitant to model big drops in that line.
Okay but it has been -- there was a big step up in I want to say 2013 I believe and I think it's been trending down a little bit since then.
Is that a fair trajectory or are we kind of more at a normalized level for where we think things are at this point? I think we are at a fairly normalized level Surinder.
The best thing to do would be to take multiple quarters of it and average it out because as your question indicates in any given quarter you can see considerable variance there based on use of consultants outside lawyers et cetera.
So it's probably best just to kind of take that one over a period of time from maybe the last year or so and use that as an average.
That's helpful.
And then the other thing I kind of wanted to touch base on is you've generally had good success.
A few different products that you've mentioned or areas and whether it was EFA or value or growth.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about the success of the Kaufmann Large Cap and why or maybe you've seen success there? I know that's a product that's done really well in terms of its relative rankings versus peers.
But there's also other products out there similar products in that segment that also have strong track records but aren't seeing the level of success that you guys are in that product.
I can't address why others don’t do as well with similar products.
I will make this observation that there are always in this industry 4-star and 5-star products that don't have positive flows.
And the reason for that is usually that the sales effort is not up to the performance of the fund effort.
And so as you might imagine you are going to hear my activity on the fact that we have over 200 salespeople who are telling the story.
And especially in the Large Cap Kaufmann area remember this they got their start in the Mid-Cap area and then went into Small Cap and then into Large Cap.
So that they have a long long long worthy history of excellent performance in the growth area.
And I think just telling that story there is no magic catalyst other than checking out the companies and doing what you've been doing for literally decades and you repeat the sounding joy and repeat the sounding joy and as the performance is there then the investors are very attracted to it.
And then maybe related to that in terms of the commentary around the sales force how should we be thinking about maybe headcount or increasing distribution or penetration and stuff or any thoughts around that? There may be small numbers of incremental adds but nothing that would approach double-digits.
We have what 210 now 214 I think 214 is the number we are using now and we are always looking for little pockets here and there.
We did talk about some additions that we were planning on the international side because of our growth in Canada and planned activity in Central America.
Then we might add somebody overseas to as well.
But it's all one z's and two z's.
There is no double-digit plan.
Fair enough.
And then maybe one final question just on your outlook in terms of like the seed portfolio and stuff.
I know you mentioned you're adding product and stuff.
How should we think about that longer-term in terms of how comfortable are you guys with the breadth of product you have currently and maybe versus where the market is going? Obviously we've seen a lot of commentary around like liquid alts and some other products.
How do you guys think about those things? Well we think those are important things for the future which is why a couple of years ago we hired a fellow called Michael Dieschbourg and reorganized the $1.6 billion or $1.7 billion of assets into an alternative area.
And that's why I highlighted the Absolute Return Fund and commented on the Managed Volatility II Fund.
And the analogy I have used on these calls before is that way more than a decade ago we came up with a theme and a group of funds called the Power of Income.
Strategic Value Dividend was one of the leaders in that stake.
It included equity income and capital income as well and others.
So it was a whole movement.
And the way we are looking at is that these alternative products have the potential in our view to grow into a situation similar to what those Power of Income Funds have done.
But it takes a lot of time.
The immediate catalyst though caused geyser eruptions but they are steady growers and that's why we like to highlight the ones that are attracting assets and developing one and three year records.
So we would be -- we view ourselves as betting on the growth of the alternative space very strongly.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you and good morning.
Good morning Eric.
Thank you.
My question is going to be purposefully high level and general.
Listening to a number of companies in this sector including yours you would think that the challenges are very great maybe not a fire drill but that the challenges are very great and that in general terms the state of the business today is more difficult than it was a few years ago.
At least that's my take away; this is sort of the tone that we're in a very very difficult time.
But I'm trying to understand whether that really is the right inference to draw.
Is the business generally speaking of money management in worse shape than it was a few years ago? After all interest rates really haven't changed all that much this year.
The stock market really hasn't changed all that much this year in the United States.
Yes emerging market prices have collapsed but some people view that as an opportunity; volatility people make money off of volatility.
So that's my question.
Given everything that's going on is it more difficult and more challenging to be running your business today than it was a year ago or three years ago? Well rates have been dramatically lower than we had experienced for years.
We have been challenged in managing in that environment.
And so '08 till 2015 is -- there is enough time to get used to it.
And so yes it is challenging but we don’t feel like we are in some crisis and we're managing through it and properly with obviously our earnings part depressed based on where rates are and we have dealt with that in a fashion that allows us to continue to invest in the future like Chris talked about Dieschbourg and seeding other products and trying to make sure that we're set up for growth and yet still have respectable margin and a respectable earnings.
So sure it's challenged but basically we are used to it.
Chris probably has a follow-up too.
Yes.
It is more challenging in these senses.
Every time you turnaround there is another gang of regulations.
So we have been through re-do the whole thing on Money Market funds which to the people working on it is truly water boarding as we were told by one of the commissioners it would be.
We are now dealing with the liquidity rule.
We are now dealing with a fiduciary rule and the SEC has said they are going to come out with a derivatives rule before year end.
Well even though these challenges are greater there are other things going on.
Early on when we were going public in '98 I talked about the potential of the triumph of investment advice as opposed to the do-it-yourself.
All of these things point towards the need for the advisor and that's the gang that we are betting on as the intermediary and the advisor.
This is one of the chief problems of the DOL proposal is it will tend to less than diminish if not eliminate advise for people that don't have substantial balances of money.
The other effect of this regulation which is most unfortunate but nonetheless you deal with it is that it all oligopolizes the business.
You can see it clearly in the money funds business but makes it more and more difficult for other players to get in.
And when you look at what the responsibilities you have on the distribution side it's not only oligopolized in the sense of creating investment management operations it's oligopolized in the sense of getting onto platforms as I articulated earlier.
So I can at once say that it is far more challenging and say that we are very happy with where we are and with our growth prospects at the same time and would still contend vigorously that this investment management business is a great business.
Very very helpful.
I hope to talk to you more about this.
Thank you to both of you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Patrick Davitt with Autonomous Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning thank you.
My question is on the 4Q waiver guidance.
And maybe you could remind us how to think about that relative to the way short rates track because I would've thought there might be some reversal there given the way short rates have tracked.
So any kind of color how to think about that relative to the way the short rates track? I will just give you the technical points behind the modeling and then Debbie can talk about our outlook for rates.
And basically we are looking at the overnight repo rates being in the mid-to-high-single single-digit and that's really one of the more critical factors when we look at -- where we think the waivers are going to come out.
The other comment I would make if you look at the asset growth remember that waivers are both a rate and a volume calculation.
If you look at the asset growth we had in the third quarter and again with the acquisition in there it was mostly on the prime side where of course waivers have even over the last several years not been much of an issue.
But Debbie can comment on where we think rates are heading.
Sure.
From a repo perspective unchanged there in the single digits as Ray mentioned.
From a LIBOR based securities perspective so that it includes government agencies commercial papers CDs floating rate securities those rates are also fairly unchanged maybe up a couple of basis point despite the fact that Fed missed the market and didn’t move in September.
Treasuries are a little bit mixed at this point just given what is happening from budgetary discussion perspective depending on what treasuries you are looking at they could be almost trading negative to price to trading high double digits.
So it's really hard to make an estimation there.
But we are confident that the budgetary process will move forward and get passed.
So all-in-all we are looking at rates that are still for the most part unchanged to maybe 1 basis point or 2 basis points higher and therefore the expectations that the waivers there are very similar.
Okay that's helpful thank you.
Then just a point of clarification on your prepared comments the flow numbers you gave at the very beginning were as of October 16th and the asset numbers were as of the 21st? Correct.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Hanley I will turn the floor back to you for any final remarks.
Well thank you for joining us today.
That will conclude our call.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Federated Investors' Fourth Quarter 2015 Analyst Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Raymond Hanley President Federated Investors Management Company.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome.
Leading today’s call will be Chris Donahue Federated’s CEO and President; and Tom Donahue Chief Financial Officer.
Joining us for the Q&amp;A will be Debbie Cunningham our Chief Investment Officer for the Money Markets.
During today’s call we may make forward-looking statements and we want to note that Federated’s actual results may be materially different than the results implied by such statements.
We invite you to review the risk disclosures in our SEC filings.
No assurance can be given as to future results and Federated assumes no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
Chris? Thank you Ray and good morning.
I will briefly review Federated’s business performance and then Tom will comment on our financial results.
I will begin by reviewing our equity business.
Although equity market conditions improved in Q4 the up and down swings over the last half of 2015 and continuing here into January presented challenges for investors and of course impacted flows.
Federated achieved solidly positive net equity flows for 2015 just under $3 billion.
For Q4 our equity flows were about $130 million negative.
This is after eight consecutive positive quarters.
Still nearly half of our actively managed equity strategies had net positive sales in the fourth quarter lead by International Leaders Kaufmann Large Cap MDT stock and Absolute Return funds.
Federated’s 5% equity fund organic growth rate in 2015 was among the best in the industry.
Based on Strategic Insight data Federated’s 2015 equity fund net flows ranked in the top 4% of the industry.
Looking forward our equity business is well positioned with a variety of strategies producing solid performance and sales results.
Using Morningstar data for ranked funds as of year-end four Federated funds or 15% were in the top decile for the trailing three years.
We had 14 funds or 54% in the top quartile and over two thirds in the top half for the trailing three years.
Performance highlights include two Kaufmann strategies the Small and Mid Cap and two MDT strategies the All Cap and the Large Value in the top decile for the trailing three years.
Our International Leaders Fund a foreign large cap blend strategy was in the top 15% or better for the trailing three five and 10 years.
Our absolute return fund is well positioned in the market neutral category with its top quartile three year record achieved since a change in portfolio manager.
Looking now at early 2016 equity fund and SMAs combined are just about at breakeven through the end of last week with our active strategies showing net inflows offset by index fund outflows.
The strategic value dividend strategy is showing particular early quarter strength as our [largest] equity strategy at about $23 billion it has produced slightly positive January month to date performance against the significant broad market decline.
Its strategy is seeking consistent and growing dividend paying stocks may provide a distinct advantage when fixed income yields are low and the broader market is volatile and customers still want income.
Now turning to fixed income.
Our outflow for the quarter of $653 million resulted from net negative fund flows partially offset by positive flows in separate accounts.
More than half of the fund's net outflows came from Ultrashort Bond funds which are often used as cash management vehicles for tax statements and other purposes.
During the fourth quarter we saw solid net inflows in our high yield strategies of about $360 million.
Our institutional high yield bond funds beat its peer average again in 2015 for the 12th consecutive year the only fund in its category to do so.
The fund is in the top quartile for the trailing three years and the top decile over the trailing five and 10 years.
Our high yield trust fund ranks in the top 2% trailing three years and 1% for trailing five and 10 years.
We have a long record of success in the high yield sector.
Our focus on companies with strong operating results and avoidance of commodity driven firms and other problem areas led to solid relative performance in 2015 in very challenging market conditions.
At quarter-end we had nine fixed income strategies with top quartile three year records including strategies for high yield government and mortgage and munis.
Fixed income funds overall are net negative in inflows early here in the first quarter.
Looking now at Money Market.
Assets increased by nearly $10 billion from the prior quarter reflecting year-end seasonality.
Average Money Market assets increased about $3 billion.
Our Money Market fund share at year-end was just over 8%.
We continue to advance on the substantial effort necessary to position our product offerings well in advance of the October 6 2016 requirement for floating NAVs for Institutional Prime and Muni money market funds.
We announced our institutional fund line up in November and completed a series of fund mergers in December.
We continue to work on a privately placed fund for qualified institutional investors who are unable or unwilling to use money fund as modified by the new rule.
We completed the transition of about $930 million in Money Market assets from Huntington in the fourth quarter and continue to look for consolidation opportunities.
Taking a look now at our most recent asset totals.
As of January 27 managed assets were approximately $363 billion including $261 billion in Money Markets $51 billion in equities and $51 billion in fixed income.
Money Market mutual fund assets were $223 billion and the January average Money fund assets are running at about $220 billion.
Looking at distribution.
SMAs continue to be a very good business for us with positive net sales in the fourth quarter of $164 million.
Total SMA sales ended the year at nearly $17 billion.
These assets increased 6% for the year and are up 80% over the past three years.
Federated ranked 6th in industry rankings of the largest SMA managers at the end of the third quarter which is the most recent data available.
We continue to have success for our EFA separate account wins including $150 million mandate in the fourth quarter that is expected to fund here in this first quarter.
Fixed income separate accounts had positive flows in the fourth quarter led by high yield.
We had a $200 million win fund into our institutional high yield bond fund in the fourth quarter.
We have $45 million in fixed income separate account additions that are expected to fund during the first quarter.
RFP activity remained solid and diversified with interest in value dividend EFA and growth strategies for equities and high yield and short duration for fixed income.
Our equity RFP activity increased 30% in 2015.
We are adding another consultant relations manager to leverage our solid investment records into additional institutional opportunities.
On the international side we registered a Canadian domiciled strategic value dividend fund product in December with the sales effort to commence this quarter.
We're looking to accelerate the growth we've seen in Canada in our SMA business and with institutions.
Canadian assets at year-end were about $1.6 billion growing over $500 billion from year-end 2013.
We continue to see success in Europe and Asia and the Mid-East from a sub-advised high yield product working with a large private bank.
These assets reached $320 million at year-end with most of the growth occurring during 2015.
As I mentioned before we had an Asia and Mid-East launch in September and a road show which continued in Hong Kong Singapore and Dubai.
We continue to seek alliances and acquisitions to advance our business in Europe and the Asia-Pac region as well as in the US and the rest of the Americas.
Tom? Thank you Chris and good morning.
Revenue was up 12% compared to Q4 of last year due mainly to lower money fund yield related fee waivers and higher equity managed assets.
Revenue increased 4% from the prior quarter due mainly to lower money fund yield related fee waivers.
Equities contributed 43% of Q4 revenues the highest percentage among the various asset classes.
Combined equity and fixed-income revenues were 62% of the total.
Operating expenses increased 7% compared to Q4 of last year and 4% from the prior quarter due mainly to higher Money Market fund distribution expenses as a result of the lower waivers.
The pretax impact of money fund yield related waivers of $16.4 million was down from the prior quarter and Q4 of last year.
The decreases were due mainly to higher growth fund yields.
Based on current assets and yields we expect the impact of these waivers on pretax income in Q1 to be about $11 million.
An increase in yield of 25 basis points in 2016 could lower this waiver impact to about $4 million per quarter and a 50 basis points increase could lower the impact to around $1 million per quarter and finally an increase in yields of 75 basis points could nearly eliminate these waivers.
However as we previously discussed partially offsetting any potential waiver recovery is the impact of a potential change in a customer relationship that may reduce pretax income by about $6 million per quarter beginning late in 2016.
This is most of the amount of waivers that we began estimating a year ago that may ultimately not be recovered.
Multiple factors affect [related] waiver levels and they don’t either recapture related income going forward.
These factors are covered in the press release and in our SEC filings and we expect these factors and their impact to vary.
The Q4 effective tax rate was 36.5% and the full year tax rate was 37.4%.
We expect a tax rate of about 37% to 38% going forward.
For Q1 it is important to remember that the fewer number of days will impact revenue which is largely earned on a per day basis.
Thus for Q1 based on Q4 average asset levels we expect the fewer days to reduce revenues by about $4.3 million and reduce the related distribution expenses by about $1.6 million.
Seasonality around payroll taxes and benefit expenses will impact compensation and related expense in Q1 and we expect to have higher incentive comp accrual.
An early estimate of Q1 comp and related expenses is about $76 million up about $7 million from Q4.
The combined impact of fewer days and higher estimated comp and related expense is about $10 million in lower operating income compared to Q4 all else being equal.
Looking at our balance sheet; cash and investments totaled $347 million at quarter end of which $334 million of cash is available to us.
[Donna] that completes our prepared remarks and we would like to open the call up now for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Michael Kim of Sandler O'Neill.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys good morning.
First Chris maybe just focusing on the fixed income business just sort of excluding the Ultrashort funds just curious how you think about the platform in terms of positioning performance liquidity and ultimately flows just assuming rates trend higher? Let us talk about liquidity first because that seems to be a very hot subject.
We have a great deal of confidence in the liquidity in all of the investment aspects that we are involved in on the fixed income side especially and even the high yield and of course we are all responding to the SEC liquidity proposed rules and that is a separate subject but in terms of the platform the leader in the clubhouse is of course the high yield which I highlighted during my remarks and the performance and the growth there has been quite good.
On our total return bond fund this year’s performance was at the 55% mark which is just below the first half and that tilts all the numbers at Federated because that is a large fund.
And we are looking forward to returning that to its historic first and second quartile type numbers.
The people that we have on staff in the fixed income area are exceptional.
They have been together for a long time with a lot of experience and we expect that that will continue into the future.
The $51 billion that we have in fixed income assets that is a great stage for the future here as well.
I think there are other aspects that are hidden jewels we think can grow.
For example our trade finance projects which are basically low volatility and low duration type instruments.
They are pretty sophisticated.
They have to be sold on an institutional type basis.
But we think there is room for growth there as well.
Got it.
Okay and then in terms of the money market fund platform I know you guys have done a lot of work sort of ahead of the regulatory changes to be implemented but just wondering sort of at a higher level how you see kind of related floor trends playing out ahead of the changes and then sort of the opportunity to maybe pick up some share post all the changes? Well I will comment first on some aspects of it and then Debbie Cunningham is on the line and she can comment from the CIO perspective as well on this.
My perch on the tree comes along your final comment which is once the debt dust settles then we think there is excellent opportunity for growth in this business by us.
And part of the reason is because the force of these regulations is to [Indiscernible] more and we are on the side we believe of the winners or the larger players in this business and we have talked about that before.
Furthermore the clients right now are still to a large extent in pause mode.
That will begin to change first and second quarter as people decide what they are going to do and we see how much movement goes from institutional prime and to our muni into [Indiscernible].
We will have all the products available.
We think we have got some pretty creative things going with our private fund.
So we think we are going to be well set up to capture this business for the long term and don't forget that we made pretty big commitments when you look at our waivers the efforts we put in both politically and at the regulatory levelin order to keep this business alive for the client.
Debbie? Sure I think if you look at the fourth quarter results certainly we are not yet contemplating movements someone [indiscernible] to another.
From one asset class to another.
Our Bond funds were up substantially over the quarter and continued to be very well in January.
Having said that with conversation continuing with our clients we are aware that there will be some of them that at this point believe they will be moving into the government market place.
And that's all well and good.
We have a [indiscernible] in the past we have a bucket to catch all the various rain drops.
You want only treasury we have that.
You want treasure with [indiscernible] we have that.
You want government agencies we have it.
So there is lots of different products that we can offer along this lines and tell the reasons why we didn’t do any of the conversion governments appoint many of our competitors in the marketplace did.
I think that when you look at the [indiscernible] and business and the alternatives that's going past it's not out of the fund industry it's not into the bank product at this point.
Banks don’t want that type of cash.
So for the most part we leave it we'll stay with the industry in fact as a share deposit we think the industry impact will grow and be substantially larger.
That the private fund that Chris mentioned is very innovative product that we believe will capture the attention of many customers in the market place and will give them basically the experience that they have had in a prime institutional Money Market fund to-date and will have said giving it to them in the form of a private prime institutional product.
So we think we're ready.
We did a lot of fund mergers during the fourth quarter those are behind us.
So our product is right size.
And we believe from a performance perspective and from a side perspective we're positioned well in the market place as clients goes [indiscernible] to side.
Make the decision in the probably late second early third quarter 2016.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just one for Tom.
I know you talked about some of the specific line items looking into the first quarter.
But just kind of stepping back any commentary on the outlook for expenses and our margins at a high-level just in mind of the ongoing market volatility? Yes.
Ongoing volatility and as soon as the rate changes start up as the volatility comes in and affects the equity market.
So we continue to reviewing quarters' basis and a budget basis and I think that the last six to seven years' experience with living with the reduced revenue has trained us to manage things pretty close to the best.
I think we'll continue doing that.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from William Katz of Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Okay.
Thanks so much Christine in taking the question.
Just was staying on that theme for a moment.
A number of your competitors have sort of talked about the need to spend almost regardless of the market chop here earlier in a few prior to New Year around things like technology global distribution product manufacturing and things of that yoke.
So I appreciate your sort of managing through the short-term volatility.
But beyond the comp guidance how do you think that about where you might be in terms of the competitive standing what you might need to maybe beef up the growth of franchise as sort of realign with some of the changes in the demographics of the business? Well you're right in terms of continuing to build up and spend money on things like technology and our [eye more] [ph] project and things like that.
You're right on the continuing our product development angle.
There are always some products that are ground under repair and there are always new ones that you are working on.
And there is always need for seed money as we have discussed before.
So we don’t have any what we think our glaring deficiencies in the product offering however we are always looking and are talking to various people of various times where we think we could enhance those.
And those types of fields where we would do acquisitions as you know Will we think would be self-supporting.
Obviously you pay for them but they are self-supporting and that we would make good purchases of those assets.
So we continue to look forward to growth in both the organic business and in opportunities for acquisitions.
Will just one other thing on that with the global distribution.
If you look at how we've done that especially with the last year we've added some resource for Canada and Latin America and that's followed as we got business and it's leading to additional opportunities.
But it's probably on a smaller scale but it's been effective.
The other thing it's been effective is winning the sub-advisory mandate that we talked about in higher which is leveraging another firms distribution and getting our product out to many different parts of the world where hadn’t been before.
Okay.
Just one more follow-up from me.
I appreciate the as your granularity in terms of the sensitivity for few way is relative to [indiscernible].
I think the bigger question is if you think about that you need another 75 basis points to sort of get back to and maybe more than that I guess to get a 100% of the [indiscernible] BlackRock and [Swan] [ph] have taken down their passive ETF to 3 basis points.
Is there any risk on pricing for the Money Market business? It sort of strikes me as a rather high gross yield in a deflationary world -- pressure on the economics of business? Well Will this is Chris.
I don’t see them as connected in any way they've informed.
The pressures that exist as regard to the money funds the sharing with the distribution are basically unchanged and are always there.
And that's what we see.
So the fact that those guys are competing with each other in terms of what they charge on their ETF is not really a factor on the Money Market fund side.
And yes there are always a fee pressure and more importantly there is sharing pressure which we've talked about many times.
So on the big picture basis we're sticking with our view that if we get the kinds of increases that are possible although you could have a debate about where the fed is going to go that those will be the relevant numbers as Tom outlined in his presentation.
Okay all right.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Surinder Thind of Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning guys.
I expect to kind of revisit the conversation around compensation expense and gains.
Can you provide a little bit more color in terms of the dynamic of how you see comp evolving over the year your guidance implies that comp would be flat year-over-year on a quarterly basis.
But there was a step down in 2015 that kind of was persistent throughout the rest of '15.
Is that '15 dynamic that we should think of or is there some other dynamic that's at play? Yes sure Surinder.
Yes you're right.
Q1 of '15 was the same basically regarding to for Q1 of '16.
And the basic things which are the normal things are 401(k) contributions the payroll tax and then our normal merit and the number of employee increases and bonus reset.
So we have to look every quarter and say what we think we're going to pay out for the year and we have to do it accurately as designed.
Its [indiscernible] to say that this is our best estimate of what we believe it is.
And at the end of the -- in the fourth quarter you see the number went down because we re-calibrated everything basically on the reduced sales number and the performance and investment management were the two main drivers for the reduction.
So what happened after our expected 76 number in the first quarter we will see based on how all the inputs come in.
Thank you that's helpful.
And then maybe a question for Chris on gross sales activity it was actually down quarter-over-quarter when I would have expected it to at least rebound somewhat from what is usually seasonally slow third quarter any additional color there and maybe how that compares to maybe some of the industry averages and stuff? Well overall for the year the totals were down slightly $32 billion of total sales compared to $33 billion the year before and either of those numbers are very very good.
But still on a relative basis I don't have the exact stats but we would be gaining share on those on total sales in any event.
And so it has to then get into each product and what was going on in the each marketplace at that time to catch what was going on.
Yes the other thing Surinder when you look at the flows sequential quarters what you – you had a step-down in fund I think that's consistent with the industry.
And then we also had a step-down on the separate account side and for us that is more of an up and down each quarter it's not so much smooth trend.
We had a couple of particularly significant wins that had funded in Q3 which we talked about at length and for example [indiscernible] now we have another good size one coming it’s expected this quarter.
So part of that is just a timing of some lumpy flows on the separate account side.
I see okay that's it I appreciate the color.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Carrier of Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks guys.
Just on the fixed income side just a question on the mix meaning when we think about like the high yield products versus some of the other products I just want to understand where you have maybe the most attraction in the different distribution channels and what you are seeing when you obviously get this amount of volatility out there? The records that we have put together in muni tax advantage and some of our muni products are pretty dug on good the multi-sector still remains strong.
The short duration remains strong and obviously the money fund so that's a different subject.
And that's true on the fund side and on the separate account with I mean during 2015 we won accounts on municipal multi-sector high yield and short duration so that's where I come with that broad based approach.
Okay.
And I mean do you guys have just I think the percentage of your exposure or where your assets are in terms of I think long time ago you used to have it like five channel in just more whether it's on the institutional side or the different retail channels that you guys are? That's something we could deal with you offline Mike we don't have – lot of detail to go through on the call.
But it's fairly well distributed across our channels.
Something like high yield has worked well institutionally we talked about some institutional wins there it does very well through brokerage dealers the high yield trust version of that that also invest in the equity has an equity bucket for the same companies that we are doing the work on the high yield side and has put together an exceptional record that has worked very well in the retail side.
So generally you are going to see those products and the distribution channel.
Okay got it.
And then just on the equity side to the trends there particularly relative to the industry you need to be strong.
When you look at the product line up and where the demand is over the past couple of years and where you kind of see it heading.
Anything from like a product strategy standpoint that you would be looking to add or you feel like you have a lot based on where the current demand is from the client base? Well when you put it as a current demand the current demand is in the strategic value dividend fund where people are looking at this world and if they are tilting a little bit away from risk and still want income this is very strong product.
And it was positive return last year and as I mentioned its positive return so far in the first month and it's hitting on all cylinders in terms of both the SMA and regular fund sales.
But if you talk about things down the road I will mention again the alternatives and the absolute return fund has done very well they’re proving their fund is doing what it's supposed to do and we look forward to some of those other funds being able to function when the alternatives are back and hot on the list.
So we think we are well positioned into the future when you have its 2015 or 2016 mandate that are still in very very good shape on the equity side spanning all of our groups.
It gives you a lot of confidence in the diversification that wherever the market tends to go we will have product.
So just looking at pause mode for one that enterprise is excellent fund and that's the area where growth takes over.
On the global equity side you look at international leaders and outstanding records and then you look at the global allocation fund.
Yes it hit a little pause mode in the second half of last year but it's three year record is outstanding and has good flow numbers as well.
So we think we are pretty well positioned around the horn.
Okay.
It's extending some of the products like for example the strategic values developing Canadian version of that where we had success on the SMA we had success obviously in the U.S.
with strategic value so we come out of the Canadian fund version of it.
We will launch that in the next couple of weeks.
I mentioned the equity part of the high yield which has been an embedded part of that particular fund we are working on developing that as a separate equity strategy.
So it's more product extension than filling holes.
Okay.
Thanks and then Tom just real quick when you think about the past years you guys have been managing with the waivers in place.
Is there anything that has been put on hold or slowdown from like an investment standpoint I know on the distribution you guys have been active and like on the product side.
But anything more like operational that you would look to do if the right environment continues to improve.
Just trying to get a sense over the next couple of years if there is anything that has been more you can just put on hold? Hey Mike at our board meeting yesterday a review for the board that the last number of years living under this wavier scenario and we are focused on was all the things that we have invested in and continue to invest in in order to help grow the company which Chris and Ray went over a bunch of them.
So we don't really think that we have heads up demand that we are not doing we have tried to manage it the balancing act we continue to invest to grow and so I don't see pent up things that we haven't done.
Okay that's helpful thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Craig Siegenthaler of Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks and good morning.
I just wanted to come back to money market fund price competition and so not only your competitors are really trying to maximize profits here and I just heard that one or maybe more of your larger competitors may keep their prices at depressed level as fee waivers go up.
So I am just wondering have you seen that yet and what is your plan if there is an element of price competition to this year? Okay I am going to give you two elements to this one is there has been one competitor who has for a considerable amount of time meaning more than a year maintained a price of paying higher than what the yields would indicate in the marketplace.
And that has been something we had to deal with and we talked about it on this call before.
The other one was the individual client.
This individual client is simply redoing the structure of their arrangements and yes they’re pricing things involved in it but as in individual customer who for a lot of different reasons is making these kinds of move and we have not seen this duplicated in other clients nor do we have any other clients similarly situated.
So yes there will be a constant competition from others but don't forget it is the logical result of big hairy regulation to oligopolies the business.
And I mentioned that before I mentioned it before during today's call and it is a very important point there is just less and less people going to be in this business before 207 there were over 200 people operating funds now it's about 60 in the bottom gang of those they don't have much money and don't have much opportunity to distribute to the third parties.
And Chris just sitting on that last point in terms of industry consolidation.
If you look down the road five to ten years from now do you think there will be many if any money market managers with less than 50 billion left? And also do you see opportunities like we saw black in Bank of America to do transactions with money market businesses that actually are large maybe north of 25 billion? I will answer the second question first then come back to the first.
The second question is what about the big deals like the BFA Black run.
Yes and we don't know how all bank regulation is going to go we don't know how things are going to be analyzed by banks or some large players.
So yes there are opportunities for that as well and that's a good example.
There aren't going to be avalanche style but we think that is definitely a possibility into the future.
Now the first part of your question was what? The first part was so like if you look down the road five to ten years and I heard your oligopoly comments but do you think there is really any managers with less than 50 billion left? Yes I think there will be several and the reason is that either if you control the right to redeem of your assets then you could run a money fund with very modest assets and you don't have to worry about getting third parties in or out.
And if you decided you can accommodate the regulations by either running all government funds or something like that then you can run a relatively small group.
A second group will be those who have large enormous fund groups and therefore can handle all the regulations and want to be offering all of the products that are necessary to their fund group.
And they may not get to 50 billion in money market but they will have those as an accommodation to their client.
And so yes those kinds of groups will continue to exist while the total number of purveyors of these products will continue to dwindle.
Got it very helpful thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Robert Lee of KBW.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks good morning guys.
Question for Tom I really just wanted to clarify some of the comments around the C-way and I know you have been talking about for a while or maybe a year or more.
The pending agreement with the distributor which may reduce the amount of those fee waivers that you can kind of recapture you mentioned this quarter it's about $6 million per quarter I wondered two questions number one is this really more of a when not if like it's going to happen is this kind of still not determined exactly when? Yes Rob so we expect in Q1 $11 million of waivers and when and if the relationship changes we will only recover $5 million of the $11 million.
And what we said on the call was we – it could happen at the end of 2016 late 2016.
Okay and then maybe just continue on that path so conceivably let's say rates at the end of this year are 25 basis points higher your fee waivers are down to 4 this new agreement comes into play so are we actually going to be looking that kind of a little bit of actually you are going to have to give up 2 million instead of –? Yes.
Okay.
Just wanted to make sure I understood it correctly.
You have understood correctly.
Okay thank you.
So I guess a question for Chris and maybe you kind of answered it with some before but I am just kind of curious more specifically if I look around the competitive universe I kind of put your competitors into three camps as it relates to thinking about how to deal with the challenge from ETF business.
So maybe trying to build it themselves with the smart data product through acquisitions or hiring staff others maybe looking for license whether seeing advances in products or someone else as a way to maybe if it makes sense down the road to the kind of the less transparent active ETF route if you will.
And then others have decided that this not their thing how do you where do you kind of how do you think about that I mean do you feel like you’re more in comfortable yards it's too much [indiscernible] going down one of those tabs just trying to get your thoughts on where you stand right now? Where we stand today is we are an active manager and proud of it and what makes the difference to us is the generation of alpha by doing honest research whether it is credit analysis on the fixed income side or kicking tires on the equity side this is where we think we make our mark.
Now this is not to say that we wouldn't consider looking at and we filed some ETF products and come up with ideas and we have looked at various acquisitions.
So it's not a total philosophical opposition but it's not where we are headed and where we are focused at this time.
Furthermore I think at some point the intellectual community is going to be doing some studies on at what point where everybody where a lot of people are not doing price discovery work what percentage of the marketplace not doing that gives the alpha characters a better advantage from an academic standpoint.
And you can have debates about that but there hasn't been enough research done on that yet but it is at some point.
And we remain committed to be honest work of price discovery and credit analysis in order to make a difference for our clients.
Great that's helpful I appreciate taking my questions.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
Chris I am hoping you can build on your response to the earlier question immediately preceding question in the following sense.
It seems to me that in addition to extending and I think Ray referenced this existing product that the big trend in the market place today in terms of the competitive landscape is for what someone called next generation products.
And that means different things to different people but it seems like we are getting growth in all these products so that sort of combine different needs of different individual whether it's a low volatility fund that it's combined with income or a absolute return fund that is currency hedge.
It seems there is a major push in this area again where some have called next generation as opposed to building on existing products.
Two part question do you agree with this assessment and if so where does Federated stand in this category? In terms of next generation Eric the way I would look at it would be that there is two gangs of products here.
One is the normal gang of buckets that allow intermediaries to make their choices to make their cash calls to make their assets allocation decisions and they want pure buckets in order to accomplish that.
We have many many intermediary clients who want that type of product.
Then you have the other type of products that are solutions oriented.
They are the absolute return type funds.
They are the global allocation type funds and these are what is generally called next generation type product.
So we think you got to keep the buckets moving ahead you are going to have to improve them in order to compete and you have to keep coming up with more and different solutions for clients as they move ahead.
However we have no fear of the same old things.
Money market funds as money market funds boring as they are; are delicious lovely and a thing of beauty as is the strategic value dividend of funds.
So we keep looking at them as some could look at them and say it's the same old thing but people really don't change all that much and have the same old fears coming back and need these types of products in their investment portfolio.
One final question regarding the money funds maybe you could Debbie but whoever feels best to answer will answer of course.
How do we get a wholesale move or meaningful move by your customers out of the funds institutional funds in muni and into the governments in an effort to retain the $1 NAV.
If we do have this meaningful wholesale shift of assets how will the economics of Federated be affected? Well since we have products in all areas we think we will do pretty well.
The returns on the government fund can be slightly less than the returns on the prime funds and that's one of the reasons why we come up with a private fund to attempt to duplicate that experience in all aspects both for the client and for Federated.
Our main job will be to retain the client allegiant because what happens immediately meaning in the end of the second quarter third quarter this year is not necessarily mean that's the end of the game.
We do not yet know how much of that will move using estimates from as low as several hundred billion which has already moved up to all of it.
We could be a trillion and a half and estimates all in between and we don't know what effect that will have on the spreads that exists between [govie] and then now constituted institutional prime funds.
So without knowing those it's really hard to gauge exactly what that will mean on the finances of Federated and we don't run any models on it and trying to figure it out either but those are some of the dynamics that are involved.
Alright and thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Ken Worthington of JPMorgan Chase.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
This is Wong Cudy standing in for Ken.
Ken apologized for not being on the call this morning.
So first thank you for all the detail on the fee waivers this is another follow up on the fee waivers.
We are looking at the Federated government obligations and treasury obligations they both seen increases in the yield from 1 to 17 or 13 respectively.
Previously waivers are being recovered lag incremental basis how do you think about tactically removing fee waivers? You are getting the high level of how are you thinking about it I am kind of curious how you think you’re going -- how you evaluate the fee waiver removal? Well it's essentially just the function of the gross yield that we have talked.
We have talked about this when waivers first came into play that for each portfolio its different obviously based on the expense structure of the portfolio.
And we were waving fees in proportion between the revenue that the advisory fee revenue that Federated was receiving in distribution fee revenue and then the revenue that the distributors were receiving.
And so you see that in the press release when we show how the waivers impacted both us and then our distribution expense which of course goes to the third party.
So the invert happens on a way up as the assets as the yields increase where refilling those buckets proportionally as well as providing the yield to the shareholders.
So it all happens in the same kind of proportion as they did on the way down and it will vary literally for each portfolio each fund.
Okay.
And then this is kind of tying to the question earlier how important are competitor prices for the fee waiver removal how do you think about taking off the fee waivers? Well to us we are always dealing with whatever other people are doing since [indiscernible] to the contrary and the way we are looking at is exactly the way that Tom and Ray have described it that if we get the increase in interest rates then the waivers will come off and that's what we are expecting.
So we are not going to have we aren't currently planning to have a different type of waiver recapture because of what competitors are doing or may do.
Okay great thank you.
All other questions have been asked and answered.
Appreciate the color and info today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Jonathan Casteleyn with Hedgeye Risk Management.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
I was curious about the 6 million per quarter in operating income helped the door to other distributors I was curious why do you think that's an isolated event meaning can other distributors sort of call back their expenses and as you say what is your confidence it's more about an isolated incident and what percentage of that is on the management in the money fund business do that account for? Well let me assure you that it is one client and it is uniqueness of one client where this is occurring.
And I am not at liberty to talk about who the client is and so therefore you got to go with me on this or not but it's not a wide spread thing.
And therefore there are no other clients that are similarly situated to enable them to do that which we are talking about doing here.
And if I gave you the asset totals then you would be able to name the client and so we are not in the business of naming the client so I am not doing that either.
Okay.
That's okay thanks.
And then just to Debbie you normally have a very good view as to what price stand from a short term rate environment I am curious what you think fed actions look like from the desk at this point? We are really looking at probably on average two to three moves in the year of 2016.
Dependency is the key here and I think that [indiscernible] in January but yes from our December numbers certainly employment and housing remain very strong that's pulling the engine along but we get some of the broader consumer statistics as well as inflation as well as certainly the industrial side of the economy and some of the regional indicators.
They continue to weaken slightly in December and then the beginning part of January so those are the numbers that we’re going to be watching to see whether we think there is a merge increase a huge increase you know 25 basis points incremental of what we are going to see and we think that in the end year around 1% from a fed times perspective does that mean one to one in the quarter or 75 to 1 I think both of those are on the table and again we will be real dependent upon how the economics of the situation continue to play out.
Any expectations of change the large multi-sale with market volatility or how do you sort of measure those expectations? Well I think it adds to the equation.
I don't think it's the top item that's being reviewed I do think it certainly taken into consideration.
So if we continue to be able return the economic price certain market volatility is going to keep another move and that’s move off the table.
If we start to strengthen again from an economic perspective I think the global situation and the volatility in the marketplace tends to take a bit of a backseat at that point.
Understood.
The last question you put investors with the upcoming rule set of limitations in the money market funds really in the two camps really unable to invest in money funds or unwilling.
Can you just describe how a corporate treasure maybe unable to invest in the money fund around the new regulations and then the second part of it is why would people be unwilling to actually engage in the product with the new role? Yes let me address that that was in my remarks.
There are some people who are unable and some unwilling what does that mean? Well obviously a treasure can do what they want in some cases people are unwilling to take on the obligation of being in front with their fees and gait and they don't like that.
Some are unable through their documents to take on a changing net asset value.
So there are state laws there are indentures there are requirements given by boards or committees investment committees they have been put into effect for over 40 years that constrain some clients.
And then some who aren't constraint that way are constrained because they don't like the potential of fees and gait for example in a different circumstance some retailer of our clients on the sweep side will not do a fee and a gait fund because they don't want to go through all of the computer work and technology changes that have to be done in order to make that fund accommodated to fees and gait so they will just go to [govie] direct that's just a different example of someone unwilling.
So if they want to keep doing what they have done before which is have a dollar in dollar out product then hopefully they will see the wisdom of coming into our private fund that we are starting to offer in the second quarter of this year.
Understood thank you.
Thank you.
We are showing time for one additional question for today.
Our last question will be coming from Patrick Davitt from Autonomous Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
As a follow-up to Craig’s question about [indiscernible] deal how many of flags like that within the 60 you gave do you think there are that could in motion of science? Well I can't put a number on it I would say there are a few but I am not going to put a number on it.
Obviously the biggest ones are ready willing and able to proceed on their own and since I don't have any names and no one has actually done it other than one it's really hard for me to gauge that.
But in this type of business there is so much change and in some of those institutions the money market fund business does not drive the truck it can easily be decided to be maneuvered and we always put at our side that we are warm and loving home for any of those opportunities.
Okay that's helpful.
And then finally we heard a lot of discussions about the interplay between prime and govie are you starting to see any impact on the flows between the deposits and money markets post fed hike as the banks are lagging deposits rate or is it still kind of too early to gauge how that will play or work out? I don't have a good gauge on that Debbie do you have a comment on that? We believe that some of those have begun to happen and certainly we have seen the lag from the deposit perspective in addition to the desire by banks to shed those which obviously exacerbates the lag.
But it’s hard to identify them specifically at this point since we have a lot of very and banking types of relationships and customers so I won’t say its hind at this point.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to management for additional or closing comments.
That would conclude our remarks for today and we thank you for joining us.