Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received yesterday's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Foot Locker's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
As we highlighted in our press release yesterday afternoon we earned $0.60 per share in the first quarter.
Our highest first quarter earnings since we became Foot Locker Inc.
almost a decade ago.
This result represents an increase of 76% compared to the $0.34 a share earned in the first quarter last year.
We noted in our release that these earnings were driven by a 12.8% comp sales gain a gross margin rate improvement of 200 basis points and a decrease in our SG&amp;A expense rate of 140 basis points.
Our prepared remarks will begin with Bob McHugh Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will provide more details of our first quarter financial results.
Bob will also address the extent to which our first quarter results have affected our outlook for the rest of 2011.
Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will then follow with an update on our progress and executing our strategic plan.
Bob the floor is yours.
Thank you and good morning.
We are very pleased with the earnings of $0.60 per share that we generated in the first quarter which significantly exceeded our expectations going into the quarter.
We have momentum across all major product categories and regions where we operate and we feel that we are positioned well to continue providing our customers with the exciting new products they want.
Ken and I will talk this morning about many of the elements of our business that have generated our recent strong results.
However I would like to mention at the outset that we still intend to be cautious in how we plan for the balance of the year.
In brief there are many risks in the external environment such as rising retail and commodity prices stubbornly high unemployment slow economic growth here and abroad and geopolitical uncertainties.
We feel well prepared to capitalize on the positive factors contributing to our current success but we also remain vigilant for these external factors which could affect the pace of business not just for us but in the general economy as well.
Turning to our first quarter results.
As John mentioned we achieved a 12.8% comp store sales increase which certainly exceeded our expectations at the start of the year and the outlook we gave you in early March.
This significant breakout on the top line encourages us that our key strategic initiatives are working.
This year February got us off to a good start with low double digit comps which was the third year in a row of solid gains in that month.
We and our vendor partners have done an excellent job of creating a lot of excitement in the month of February for the consumer of athletic footwear and apparel which Ken will discuss a bit more later.
With the shift of Easter from March to April we were somewhat concerned about March comps but they came in at a high single digits which in turn led to a very strong April for us with comps exceeding 20%.
For the quarter our international divisions matched our initial outlook by producing a mid-single digit comp increase.
Foot Locker Europe our largest international division was the strongest performer while Foot Locker Canada struggled a bit with the anniversary of last year's Vancouver Olympics and a much later arrival of spring in Canada this year compared to a year ago.
Thus the engine that really drove our strong comps was clearly our U.S.
business.
Our total domestic store business posted overall comps in the teens for the quarter despite the slight drag caused by the year-over-year decline in the Toning business.
And the good news is that Toning becomes even less of a drag as we go through Q2.
Our Direct-to-Customers segment which includes Eastbay topped 20% comps for the quarter.
Our store banner dot-com sites had especially strong comps.
First quarter footwear comps were up double digits in the U.S.
The positive footwear comps included gains in Men's Kids' and even Women's as gains in other categories of women's footwear especially lightweight running more than offset the drag I mentioned from the Toning category.
Accessory comps in the U.S.
were also up double digits but the strongest gains came in apparel which topped 20% in the U.S.
Our efforts to develop a compelling apparel assortment have really begun to resonate with our customers.
Our gross margin rate increased by 200 basis points 50 basis points of this improvement came from merchandise margin in line with our expectations.
And merchandise margin improvement came mostly in apparel as we continue to close the margin gap between footwear and apparel.
Footwear margins are still higher than apparel margins in our domestic businesses but we're making good progress.
The real driver of our gross margin rate came from the leveraging of our predominantly fixed buying and occupancy expenses.
On a constant currency basis our buying and occupancy expenses were up only slightly despite the large increase in sales.
We have shown a consistent ability to leverage improved sales into much higher gross margin results.
We also kept tight control over SG&amp;A expenses which increased slightly more than the 1% to 2% we'd expected at the beginning of the year but declined as a percent of sales by 140 basis points.
We control variable expenses very well although we did invest some dollars into additional marketing efforts.
The strength of the euro Canadian dollar and Australian dollar during the quarter also put upward pressure on local currency expenses as reported in U.S.
dollars.
The impact of currency rates this year added about $4 million to SG&amp;A expense this quarter compared to last year's.
So between leveraging fixed expenses in our gross margin and keeping a tight rein on operating expenses we achieved a very good 38% flow-through of higher sales to higher pretax profit.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was $27 million up slightly from last year's $26 million and in line with our annual guidance.
Interest expense was $2 million down slightly from last year's $3 million due to higher cash balances and slightly higher rates on investments.
Our first quarter effective tax rate was 37% up a bit from last year's 35.6% as our profits in the U.S.
where our rates are higher increased as a proportion of the total.
Turning to the balance sheet our merchandise inventory was up $13 million or 1% compared to a year ago.
Clearly our inventory is fresh and becoming increasingly more productive.
The strong earnings and improved productivity of our assets led to very strong cash flow as our quarter end cash balance was $799 million up $183 million from a year ago.
Our solid liquidity position is enabling us to take several strategic steps in terms of capital allocation.
First as mentioned last quarter we are investing more money directly into the business.
We have begun to implement our program to spend approximately $160 million this year on capital projects as compared to just under $100 million a year ago.
Most of the expenditures will go towards new stores and remodeling our existing fleet.
We're also investing significantly in our e-commerce business as well as in new systems to improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness.
Second we have increased our quarterly dividend by 10% to maintain a meaningful dividend to our investors.
And third we repurchased 1.5 million shares of our common stock in the first quarter at a cost of $30 million.
It has been an encouraging start to the year for us.
The consumer interest in athletic footwear and apparel has been building for well over a year now based on several factors Ken will discuss.
As I said at the beginning there's still some uncertainty in the economic outlook globally and any number of factors could impact our business around the world.
Therefore while we currently expect to continue to deliver strong results for the balance of the year we do not think it is prudent in the face of a still difficult economy and tougher comparisons in the second half of the year.
We plan the pace of our business to remain as robust as it was in the first quarter.
We believe that the annual outlook we gave you in March is still appropriate for the remainder of the year even as our first quarter results suggest that upside sales opportunity makes this particularly in the near term.
So I'll spend a few minutes updating our previous outlook to reflect the actual first quarter results.
We currently expect comp store sales to increase in the mid-single digits over the last 3 quarters of this year versus our previous outlook of low- to mid-single digits keeping in mind that our comparisons get tougher as we cycle through the latter quarters.
Factoring in a strong first quarter this would result in an upper mid-single digit comp for the full year.
Our gross margin rate is expected to improve 40 to 60 basis points over the remainder of the year versus the 30 to 50 basis points we had previously mentioned.
Keep in mind that we'll be comping against already significantly improved footwear and apparel margins last year.
We believe that the opportunity to continue leveraging our fixed expenses is still very meaningful so if the pace of business were to continue above our current expectations we have room to lever up the gross margin rate beyond this outlook which is of course what we were able to do in the first quarter.
We are planning to increase our SG&amp;A expense dollars somewhat more than the 1% to 2% outlook we gave in March.
We are strategically reinvesting profits into strong marketing campaigns and flexing our variable expenses to support higher sales.
For example here in the second quarter we have launched a significant branding campaign for our Champs Sports banner.
In addition foreign exchange rates are driving up the U.S.
dollar value of our international expenses compared to our original outlook.
The combination of these factors is likely to lead our SG&amp;A expense dollars to increase for the full year by about 4% over last year with a somewhat larger percentage increase in Q2.
Depreciation expenses still projected to be in the $106 million to $108 million range although foreign exchange rates are also pressuring that amount up slightly.
And interest expense is trending slightly below the $10 million figure we provided in March.
We continue to forecast our income tax rate for the year at 37%.
And we expect the impact of translating the 2011 profits of our international operations at current foreign exchange rates to improve our reported earnings by $0.02 to $0.03 per share compared to 2010 foreign exchange rates.
Based on our first quarter sales trend which has continued thus far in May we are even more confident that we will deliver double-digit percentage increases in EPS in each of the remaining quarters of this year.
All-in-all therefore we are pleased with our solid performance in the first quarter which as John said exceeded our earnings in any first quarter since our company became Foot Locker Inc.
Our sales volumes in both our stores and online have accelerated.
Both unit sales and average selling prices were up.
We believe we have our inventory positioned well to take advantage of the encouraging trends in the athletic industry.
Our inventory aging metrics have been getting better each quarter and our improved inventory management helps on many fronts from lower markdowns to lower shrink to better in-store productivity.
And of course it means we can continue to flow in fresh merchandise in line with consumer demand.
With that I'll turn the program over to Ken Hicks.
Thanks Bob and good morning.
I believe everyone at Foot Locker is very proud of the progress that together we're making in executing our strategic plan as evidenced by the outstanding first quarter results we announced yesterday.
As we suggested on the cover of our 2010 annual report we're off to a good start.
2010 was the start of our run towards our long-range goals.
And now that we have started the race our Q1 results show that we're beginning to really hit our stride.
But this is a very long race.
In fact in reality it never ends.
For everything that went well in the first quarter there was something we could do better and we intend to do better in the future.
So let's take a look primarily at what went well in terms of the six major strategic initiatives which we first laid out publicly a little over a year ago.
To achieve our provision of being the leading global retailer of athletically inspired shoes and apparel.
First we strive to be the power merchandiser of athletic shoes and apparel.
And we came out of the gates fast in February by emphasizing and executing on our clear leadership of the basketball category.
We centered our efforts around elevating the NBA All-Star game in Los Angeles which was a very successful high-profile event for us.
As a result we had good double-digit gains in basketball in February with several of the player-endorsed marquee shoes selling really well.
It is great news for the category that there are some strong new players like Derrick Rose John Wall and Kevin Durant to go along with Kobe Lebron Howard Wade and others.
And now in addition to Nike we have several other brands that have also developed exciting player-endorsed products; Adidas Reebok and Under Armour have some very compelling basketball product in the market.
To capitalize on our leading position in basketball we've been rolling out our House of Hoops concept with some of our Foot Locker stores and now have 29 of them with a target of more than 40 by the end of 2011.
But our stool no longer has just one leg.
We also significantly amplified running in the Locker divisions and Champs Sports.
And within running we have several options for the consumer from technical to the fast-growing lightweight running and from performance running to value.
Our vendor partners are doing an outstanding job innovating and delivering fresh exciting running product.
In addition to the Nike Free and Nike Lunar we have Reebok with Zig and Flex and Adidas with Clima [ClimaCool].
Under Armour K-Swiss Saucony and others are also helping the category full of new tech -- keeping the category full of new technology profiles and colors.
We've also strengthened our position with technical running brands such as ASICS Brooks and Mizuno.
The growth rate of running has been very good even higher than basketball in the quarter although both are on an upswing.
The other aspect of power merchandising we've had success in is in elevating lifestyle.
For example we had an integrated presentation of the Nike Fresh Air campaign in Foot Locker.
In Footaction we emphasized lifestyle running and we also introduced some new footwear brands such as Nautica and Foot Action.
In Kids Foot Locker we had success across most categories as we delivered product geared especially for kids instead of just take down versions of the adult shoes.
Overall in terms of footwear assortments it is in the lifestyle element where we've made the most progress in clearly defining our brand banners.
In fact we have good balance between the results of our urban and suburban stores both of which showed double-digit sales growth in the quarter.
We feel these results help validate our belief that each of our domestic banners has a different set of core customers.
When it comes to differentiating our brand banners however it is the development of compelling but different apparel assortments for each of our banners which certainly lifted our results in the first quarter.
This is the second major initiative of our strategic plan.
As Bob mentioned we had over 20% comps in apparel in the U.S.
This included gains in Men's Women's and Kids' and the margins were up significantly as well as our apparel inventory is fresh as it's been in a long time.
We've made the most progress on the branded and license side of the apparel business from Nike Adidas and Under Armour especially.
The brands continue to do a terrific job innovating and hooking up their apparel assortments to the footwear.
Meanwhile we learned a lot last year about what we need to do to develop the right mix of private label product to augment these branded offerings.
We expect our improvements to take hold especially in the back-to-school period.
Third we took steps to make our stores and Internet sites even more exciting places to shop and buy.
As Bob mentioned our Direct-to-Customers segment posted a sales increase of over 20% in the quarter and this is on an already meaningful and profitable base since it includes the industry-leading Eastbay Catalog business.
The Internet sites associated with the brand banners had even faster growth.
During April we unveiled upgraded mobile commerce sites for each of our athletic footwear retail banners.
Foot Locker Lady Foot Locker Kids Foot Locker Footaction Champs Sports and CCS.
With added functionality and enhancements to provide customers with the seamless and optimal cross-channel experience.
Our new mobile sites have been upgraded to include advanced features and technology to further integrate our online and in-store offerings.
Building on our online leadership is in fact one of our key growth initiatives which is the fourth initiative under our strategic plan.
We're also growing our store base in Europe as the majority of our new store initiatives in 2011 are slighted for their -- and we are filling in those markets where we're already established but under-penetrated and also entering new countries as we did in April by opening our first store in the Czech Republic.
We have 541 stores in Europe at the end of the first quarter with about 25 more scheduled over the rest of the year.
Fifth we continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our assets.
Our first priority is keeping a tight control over expenses which our team has done well.
Our 20.4% SG&amp;A rate in Q1 was one result of those solid efforts.
By maintaining discipline in spending and reducing our markdowns from last year's already much improved rate we generated a solid 38% flow-through of incremental sales to incremental pretax profits.
As we have previously mentioned we are investing some of our capital into technological initiatives.
These initiatives include improving merchandise flow labor management and customer service among others.
Such investments should continue to drive efficiencies and ultimately drive up our customer conversion rate by allowing our store associates to concentrate on doing what they do best selling.
Which brings me to our sixth and final strategic initiative building on our industry-leading retail team.
We are investing in additional staff and technology in the areas of talent acquisition and associate development.
For example we're rolling out a new customer-first training program in all of our stores worldwide in order to increase customer engagement and conversion.
Overall we executed our strategic initiatives well across all areas of the business; footwear apparel and accessories Men's Women's and Kids' domestic and international online and bricks and mortar top line and bottom line.
But there are things we can and will do better.
Our sales and profits are still down from several years ago and we still have some unproductive stores around the world.
We continue to look at ways to improve the productivity measures of all of these stores by for example increasing customer conversion rates lowering operating cost or negotiating better terms with landlords.
Only after exhausting all of these possibilities do we finally close the store.
The returns of our CCS business also remained below our standard.
We know from looking at the results of some of our competitors and even within some of our own brands that the skate customer's out there.
We probably didn't evolve the CCS business as fast as we should have.
In addition to the merchandising and operational steps we've taken to turn this business around we also recently hired a new experienced Managing Director to lead CCS.
We also have opportunities to further define and differentiate the brand banners through traditional and online or viral marketing campaigns.
For example we're in the midst of an exciting rebranding campaign for our Champs Sports business which we believe will strengthen our position with the customer who has game.
We also just rolled out our Sneakerpedia an independent online community dedicated to the sneakerheads who really love sneakers and are proud of the collections they've accumulated.
And we can continue to build our apparel assortments by leveraging the strong partnerships we have with the top athletic brands and by filling in our private label assortments such as Actra Champs Sports gear and Sneaker Freak to provide the customer with a full range of exciting choices.
As optimistic as we are about the recent trends in the current athletic cycle and encouraged as we are about the additional runway we have to improve our capabilities internally.
We are nonetheless mindful of the pressures our customers face.
As Bob mentioned unemployment is still high in most of the markets in which we operate.
Incomes are not rising as fast as prices especially food and energy.
And economic growth is uncertain as many governments face pressure to raise taxes or cut jobs or both.
Moreover we expect that there will be price increases coming in our industry.
The effect will increase in the latter part of the year and we're working to ensure retail prices increase only in the targeted sensible ways.
Given the strength of the current athletic cycle with lots of exciting new product technology we believe these price increases will in general be accepted by our customers despite the macroeconomic headwinds I mentioned.
We intend to maintain the right relative value propositions both within our stores in terms of higher-priced premium product compared to more value-oriented product but also compared to other retailers targeting our customer.
There are also looming lockouts in the NFL and NBA later this year.
We've developed contingency plans to maintain our momentum even in the event that one or both of these leagues do not play next season.
I'm not going to get into the competitive details of course.
And clearly we prefer that the players play.
But we're not planning to throw our hands up in the air if they do strike.
We will have exciting initiatives to roll out in any case.
To sum it up I'm proud of the team here at Foot Locker Inc.
We stepped up the challenge and produced our record first quarter earnings.
I want to again thank all of our store associates as well as our home office distribution center and data and finance center associates who provided the support to the stores.
As Bob mentioned we're not planning for the remaining 3 quarters of the year to be much different than we thought at the beginning of the year despite the strong start in the first quarter.
We're facing too many of the same potential headwinds as before to risk overextending ourselves in the relatively low volume second quarter.
That said we're ready from an inventory and operational perspective to continue to take advantage of every opportunity the market affords us.
As I said at the beginning of my remarks we're off to a good start and we're excited to be where we are in this race but we still have a long way to go.
Thank you and we'll be happy to answer your questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Kate McShane from Citi.
I was wondering if you could give any more detail on the momentum that you're seeing in May? You had indicated that April was up very strong.
And is that momentum in May a comment about the continuing momentum that you saw in April or just a strong strength that you saw during the quarter? I'd say it's the strength of the quarter.
May -- you have to call them April because May with the Easter switch there was a little shift.
But we had a good March a good April and that's continued across all the businesses.
Okay.
Great that's helpful.
And inflation we're hearing from Nike -- or we've heard from Nike about they're not able to take prices up until spring 2012 because of their futures program.
So how much inflation will we actually be seeing in your stores in the fall and for the back-to-school period? Well the way the system works.
We buy the shoes in advance they go and make them and their costs change.
That's why they're not able to take the prices up because we've already bought them.
Now we're placing the shoes for the fourth quarter and some shoes and apparel for the start of next year.
We are seeing some increase.
It varies.
Some items are not going up at all.
Some items are going up mid-single digits.
It's not outrageous inflation but there's -- there is some price adjustments.
But I think most of -- is being handled in a very thoughtful way whether we realize the price point or particular values desired by our customer we're working with all of our suppliers to manage that -- to not hurt the volume.
So you will see some items that go up more some of the most desired items that we feel are more elastic.
And you will see some items that will not go up as much.
So it's difficult to say exactly the percentage but it's -- hopefully we will be able to maintain that because we haven't seen all the pricing yet at a reasonable level.
Okay.
Great.
And then my last question is just based on your guidance today it seems that you are well above the pace in achieving your 8% operating margin goal.
So I was wondering if we will be receiving any kind of update to your 5-year financial goals that you put out last March? Well we've got to win the race -- this one first before we start the second.
But as we achieve the goals we will continue to update.
And as I said in my presentation we will continue to raise the bar as we get closer to them.
We're not going to back off at all.
But at the same time as you get closer to a goal it gets more challenging to cross the finish line sometimes.
But we feel that -- we will make sure that we keep the organization challenged and we continue to deliver strong results.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
I'm going to start with just asking Kate's question maybe a different way.
So as we're looking back at your 5-year presentation from last March -- and a lot of these metrics you gave us is looking like you could actually hit these 5-year target numbers this year.
When you look back at that presentation what do you feel has been better than you expected versus just faster than you expected? Or in other words are some of these programs now going to reach profitability levels above where you're estimating at that time or did you guys just chop the wood faster than you thought you could? I think it's a combination of the two.
On some of the goals we've moved faster than others and we will adjust sooner than others.
On others been a little longer.
Sales for example is one of the more challenging ones because of -- the sales goal is $6 billion because of the number of stores that we've closed last year.
But we see our ability to make that within the planned timeframe.
On the other hand productivity measure like sales per square foot with what we're doing we may be able to achieve that sooner.
And we constantly reevaluate the plan and the goals to make sure that we keep stretching ourselves.
It's one of these that -- like you see in the cartoon with the horse pulling the cart and it’s got the carrot out in front of it.
We keep moving the carrot out in front so we keep moving forward.
But we I think have moved a little faster.
And some of them -- some of the objectives we probably had a little bit more opportunity than we might have thought we had 1.5 years ago.
That's really helpful.
And we talked about the remodeling component of the CapEx this year.
How many stores will you be remodeling this year? How many have you done? And can you help us think about what kind of lift you're seeing to sales maybe in those stores as you get into that program? So we can just kind of think about how that program is going to influence comps this year.
The remodel program and I'll have Bob give the exact number is effective and it meets our current [ph] programs on an overall basis or some stores do some stores don't.
So we're looking at -- the program's effective.
We're also looking at improving the formats to make them even more effective.
So the capital we spend does get the return that we require on it.
But we think that we can do more than just facelifts.
And there's the opportunity to make it a more exciting shopping environment and we're exploring opportunities with that.
And that's something that we will do next year probably.
And we expect to touch between 180 and 200 stores in some fashion this year.
In addition we said we're going to open 60 new stores so it's a pretty robust program Mike.
And that's one of the things.
During the downturn we did continue to remodel and reload the stores and make them more exciting but it's about 180 to 200 projects.
But we also will do a lot of fixturing in other stores as well.
And can I just end with asking about your apparel comments.
With apparel going at I think you said 20% in the U.S.
at this point? Yes.
So we've talked a lot about how margins there are below footwear.
How much was apparel as a contributor to that merchandise margin? And how much opportunity I guess do you think there is in footwear to continue to be upward pressure on the merchandise margin there? We haven't given them the margin's differences between the businesses but except to say that apparel is still below shoes and that was part of the increase.
And the good news or bad news depending on your point of view apparel margins are still below the footwear margins.
And we have private brand in apparels so you would anticipate they should be higher.
And our inventory methods that we've taken working with flow and improving the assortments that we have have helped the sales and the profitability but we still believe that the margins for apparel can exceed the margins for shoes.
There's no reason why they shouldn't and that's our overall goal.
So there's still some as the expression goes juice to be squeezed from that as we look to the future.
Our next question comes from John Zolidis from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Question on differentiating the brands or the banners rather with the apparel assortments.
It seems like when you have 3 000 stores in the U.S.
that's one of the biggest challenges that you face is attracting a unique customer segment to each one of those banners.
And I was intrigued by your comments about using the apparel to drive that differentiation.
So I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more detail some examples of how that's working or how you're thinking about it? Sure.
The apparel assortment really is the key for a couple of reasons.
One a key shoe is a key shoe.
And for the most part the shoes 75% to 80% of the shoes are about the same.
That said we make some adjustments.
For example Footaction is the only banner that's carrying the Nautica shoes.
We have a much higher level of -- has unlimited number of them but Footaction has a stronger -- much stronger position with Nautica and we just have a few of the shoes in a Foot Locker.
We have much higher proportion of technical in Foot Locker than we do in Champs.
So the shoes 75% to 80% are about the same.
The apparel is a big differentiator because that sets the lifestyle of the banner first of all.
And second it also is the most visible thing and the thing that changes most frequently.
So in -- a Footaction will carry Rocawear and jeans and a Foot Locker will have more technical apparel.
In a Champs we have a very strong position with Adi [Adidas] and really powerful NBA statement in the apparel.
So we've got a position for each of the banners.
And as you look outside from the mall or you walk into the store you immediately see the difference.
And our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Your sales are running very strongly and your inventories are up just a bit.
There's going to come a point prior to the back-to-school season where you may need to build your inventories.
Is there any chance that we might see a slowdown in sales owing to inventories in June July? It did happen a year ago.
And what are your inventory plans for back-to-school? We didn't suffer a slowdown last year because of inventory.
I believe one of our competitors talked about that.
We work pretty hard and our vendors have been very supportive of us of moving up merchandise and staying.
We also quite frankly as we said didn't have the turn that we needed and so we were carrying too much inventories.
So the last year inventory is not as important or comparable as what is the appropriate inventory.
We also have improved our flow of the merchandise.
And so where we used to take in an order for a shoe or apparel all at once we now place multiple orders and have it come in over a period of time so there's a constant flow.
And it allows us to get the right shoes in the right stores and not have some stores backed up and other stores out of the product.
So that said we're keeping a close eye on inventories because you're right there will be some of the better-selling items that we may run low on in some stores and that's an issue.
But it's our job to equalize that through flow and be able to sell the other product that we do have.
No buyer ever bought something that they didn't think was good but there are some things that are better than others.
And our focus quite frankly in inventory is to make sure that we start the back-to-school season in a good position.
And that's something that we're working very close with our vendors on so that we don't get into a bind.
But between having too much inventory in the past improving our assortments getting the right flow and quite frankly excellent support from each of our vendors we've been able to operate with leaner inventories than we have in the past.
That's great.
So you don't -- you do not foresee inventory constraining sales? Not at this time.
Not at this time Bernie.
That said...
The other thought that I have about back-to-school could you perhaps give us an overarching theme in terms of what you foresee developing for that season? I know that you've -- without revealing your particular plans? Well you've got to be careful.
We think that it's one -- obviously one of the key times for us.
And we've got some I think strong marketing programs that are in place.
We've got some new looks in shoes and apparel that we think will help us.
And one of the other things as to your point where we planned up the inventory for the end of the second quarter to be ready for back-to-school compared to last year so that we can be positioned where we need to be when that occurs.
So we're going to have a strong inventory position.
We've got some new product.
We have some new marketing.
And that marketing a lot of that will be around new media because that's hitting that kid who wants to be dressed right when they head back to class.
Our next question comes from Robbie Ohmes from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just two quick follow-ups.
The first can you -- I know you don't want to give too much but can you talk a little bit more about is there going to be a significant expansion of branded apparel items for fall and maybe remind us on the Under Armour Charged Cotton product the number of doors it's in now and whether that expands as you move through the year? And if you expect a lot more items particularly in that area? And then the other question I had is I think you guys said that Men's Women's and Kids' were all strong in the quarter.
Did any of those uptick a lot more than the others? Have you seen any significant change in momentum either Women's versus the rest of the group or Kids' et cetera? That will be helpful as well.
Okay.
On fall apparel we do have some new programs coming in from some of the brands.
And with an existing program some of our vendors have really done an excellent job in new styles.
And this is one of the things where our European division helps us because they have a tendency to be a little bit faster and heavier into apparel.
We've seen some things that worked there.
We're bringing them back to Canada Australia/Pacific and the United States because not everything works in Europe obviously works in the United States.
But we're seeing some things.
So there'll be some neat new programs there.
We also are seeing more technology that's working and we'll see more of that from vendors like Nike with DriFit.
And then you mentioned the Under Armour Charged Cotton that program's gotten off to a good start.
We would envision that they will have -- in fact we know they will have some additional products within that line.
We think based upon the acceptance of the Charged Cotton T-shirts that those will be successful.
So we think that that program will continue.
But we're seeing from each of our key branded vendors Nike Adidas Under Armour and the fashion vendors that we have for people like Footaction and Eastbay and CCS that there's enough newness that will keep that going.
We also -- with regard to your question to Men's Women's and Kids'.
The Women's business was a little bit tougher.
But because of the anniversarying of the Toning which were coming to the end of the big numbers and now it's an ongoing part of the business.
And we feel it is an ongoing part of the business just at a lower level than what it was this time last year.
So that was a little tougher.
The Kids' business was very good as we continue to expand our assortment with more kid-like shoes to really go along with the great takedowns we have and it's a combination of those two that have worked.
And when you have both basketball and running working in Men's that's a nice thing.
So I'd say they all performed as Bob said well.
The most challenging was Women's but we see that picking up because a lot of the underlying elements like running and the apparel are performing strongly.
Terrific.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Eric Tracy from FBR Capital Markets.
Ken if I -- don't want to just completely focus on the negatives here but in terms of the potential headwinds out there be it rising gas fuel cost the potential for an NBA NFL lockout and obviously the price increases coming through which of those kind of give you the most concern in terms of potentially stalling out the strong athletic cycle? What do you feel like you've got most control over and can sort of deal with and come back? Eric we actually do spend most of our time thinking about the challenges we face both in terms of external how to address them and internal what we need to do to improve ourselves so I don't necessarily have a problem talking about them.
The biggest concern that I have on an ongoing basis are anything that impacts the consumers' ability to buy discretionary items: gas jobs.
And as those stay up that's a challenge.
One of the things I think we're benefiting from now this year is the FICA tax reduction that everybody's got.
And people have a little bit more money in their pocket.
That's why don't think we're feeling the gas situation the food prices quite as much as we might have.
Because people I have $30 $40 $50 a month that they wouldn't have had had we not had that.
So when that goes off or if gas prices stay high that's a challenge.
The strike in particularly the NBA but also the NFL that's something that concerns me.
I will tell you we've had several meetings with our vendors a number of meetings internally and our merchants have really worked hard to develop contingency plans about what product we should have what type of marketing and how to address that if there is a strike.
We spent a fair bit of time planning for the alternatives.
And if it doesn't happen great.
We hope it doesn't.
If it does happen we will be prepared and hopefully minimize the impact.
The prices and cost of shoes that's something again that I'm concerned about.
But so far we've been able to manage it because of the new technology and exciting product that we've had and the consumers' been willing to pay the $1 or $2 and in some cases it maybe $5 or $10 more.
We'll see if they go too high or the newness slows down that's an issue.
But right now that probably is the one that's of the 3 that I just gave the lowest.
In fact I think I gave them in the order of priority of what we think about them.
And we spend a lot of time thinking about each of those.
That's fantastic.
I really appreciate that.
And then following e-commerce obviously a really strong quarter here.
A big piece of the overall strategy going forward.
Can you just sort of update us thoughts there where you are maybe if there's any update sort of targets and where you want that business to be as a percentage of the mix obviously a very accretive growth vehicle.
Just if you could touch on that.
Well we're fortunate that we have a strong direct-to-customer base with our Eastbay business and it's very well received by the consumer.
Unfortunately what we did not develop as much are store banners as we should have.
And our goal would be to have the store banner business to approach 10% of the brick-and-mortar business.
We're not there yet and we feel that -- and it varies by the way significantly by banner.
We've got a good opportunity to push that.
And we know based upon some of the banners we have we have the ability to get there in all of them.
To do that we've taken a number of initiatives.
I talked about mobile what we're doing in mobile.
In-store marketing we've got our flip books.
We're putting up more signing and things to encourage the customer.
We've got our in-store dot-com operation where we can order shoes in store if we don't have it either a style or color or size.
We put on all of our websites.
We just upgraded by the way our Champs website.
Went online yesterday and it looks terrific.
We put on a really -- with what we call on the Foot Locker -- we obviously don't call this on the others -- but in Foot Locker it's Strikerpedia [ph] where you can go in and find about how to fit shoes what type of foot strike you may have lot of information about -- for the customer to buy the right shoes.
So we're giving information doing more videos making it more enticing and intriguing to get the customer there.
And at the same time we opened -- this week we launched in the U.S.
the Sneakerpedia website which is really for the consumer to take advantage of and we don't have any input.
We just power it and consumer talks about what their favorite sneakers are shows their collections and things.
So to get more interest in sneakers we figure we'll benefit from that.
And then finally the marketing we're using the direct mail that we have for both Eastbay and CCS to increase the conversations.
And not just catalogs they're really things to entice the people to get to the dot-com.
So this is a full-force effort by us and it's really designed to connect the store the customers and the Internet altogether.
And that's fantastic.
And then if I could just lastly on capital allocation.
Obviously you're building cash position here buying back shares in the quarter increasing the dividend.
Maybe just sort of talk about that strategy going forward relative to investing be it in the core.
Or even in potential growth internationally talk about maybe the Europe you're adding some doors there but those sort of investments and capital allocation? Yes.
I think our first priority obviously is to invest in the business.
I think as we improve our performance and we achieve our objectives.
It certainly makes us more comfortable about investing in the business.
And we do think there's opportunities and we start to see more opportunities now as things improve and the environment improves.
And I think the first order of priority in terms of store growth as we said back in March was to look at our International business.
And we are embarking that and we're going to open the substantial amount of the new stores this year.
We'll be in the international market particularly Europe.
But however we also see these -- the opportunities for instance in the dot-com business as well as making improvements to the existing store base as well.
So again the first priority is the business we have today and making it more productive and effective.
Like everybody else who are presented with a lot of opportunities from time to time we'll continue to look at them and if they make sense and they fit into our strategies perhaps.
But again that's more of a wait and see.
And again we're focused on returning -- making meaningful returns to our shareholders through the dividend and the share repurchase program.
And our next question comes from Michelle Tan from Goldman Sachs.
Ken it seems like you were -- comps on the footwear side are really starting to outpace this sector by a widening margin.
And I was wondering if you look at the process and assortment flow and allocation changes you're making that are driving some of this success can you be a little more specific about what elements of those changes have kicked in and what's still on the come? Well obviously first wanted to maintain our position in basketball and I think we've done that and that part of the business has done well for us.
Where we were lagging was in running both if you will the casual runner and the technical.
And we stepped up that effort and that has paid dividends bringing in a new customer and also helping us participate in the whole lightweight trend.
And then the place where we probably have the biggest opportunity is -- and the fourth leg of our stool if it's running basketball apparel is in the casual side of the business.
And we're working with our vendors because we think that part of the business is also an important opportunity for us.
But that when you look at it that probably is the part of the business and is also one of the more difficult ones to define.
That's -- I won't say it's bad but it's just not up to the pace of the other parts.
And I guess on that front as you think about kind of the mix within the assortment.
With all of this great product now coming out of the broader range of vendors are you rethinking at all how that mix should be constituted when you look at the proportion of casual or the proportion of value and blend of brands? How are you thinking about that? We are letting the customers help us define that.
The good news is that all of our vendors are coming up with new product.
And we're working hard with all of them to grow albeit some are growing a little faster than others.
But we don't see it's our job as much as it is helping the customer make that decision.
And that's one of the advantages that we have as a company -- is that we have the house of brands and allow us to make sure that we get the best thing in front of the customer.
And then we follow up on that as quickly as possible to make sure that they want to have it.
We are introducing new ideas and new things.
And as vendors come to us with new ideas we're moving quickly on those and building on big ideas like Air with Nike or Flex with Reebok.
The Clima with Adi the basketball from Under Armour.
We're working with all of them to make sure that we are positioned with their best product and their new product.
And then as you think about their pipeline going forward I mean I guess when you look at the amount of innovation that's coming out now do you think it's kind of a sustained change in the way the vendors are producing and thinking about innovation? Or do you think it's more of kind of a moment in time? I think we're fortunate then that there was a backlog but I think the vendors -- in fact I know the vendors have -- seen the importance and opportunity with newness and they are constantly working hard to develop and come up with new ideas.
After -- I'll use Adi as an example.
After Zig you would have said "Okay what could they do?" Well you look at Flex.
After Free's been out there for a while Nike came with Lunar and now they've got new lightweight shoes.
All of the vendors now have a position in that market.
So I think from what I've seen there's a very good pipeline for the foreseeable future of new and important ideas.
Your next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Just a couple.
Can you talk in the quarter about like how the -- the change in the average selling prices the traffic and conversion matrices for us? Say it again? Average selling prices conversion traffic? Okay.
We don't breakdown all of those.
There was an increase in average selling price we saw that.
And that was both in terms of the cost of the product we're selling more premium product.
We also had fewer markdowns because we continue to reduce our aging and our promotional events.
Traffic overall was about flat.
Transactions were up because conversion was up.
And then just a follow up on one of the questions earlier.
What is the appropriate amount as things evolve of the weeks of supply that you should have from an inventory perspective? Because I mean you're trying to continue to drive return.
Where -- what is that amount? I mean are you looking at 12 to 15 weeks? Is that sort of in the ballpark of what you'd like to have on hand all the time? Well it obviously varies by what type of shoe and the vendor's ability to replenish.
And also apparel is different than shoes so it varies.
We're looking for that overall 3-turn.
We believe that apparel will turn faster than shoes which by the way it hasn't until this past year.
It started to turn faster than shoes.
So obviously the buyers look at the weeks of supply by item but it depends on what the item is and whether there's backup.
But we're really as a overall corporation and what we've released publicly is focused on making sure that we get that turn measure up.
So that means that you can still -- this is to Bernie's question.
You can still theoretically then bring your inventories down more than you have given the way you're flowing goods and so on and so forth? I wouldn't say Sam that we'd bring our inventories down we'd get our sales up with the same inventory.
On a relative basis on the year-over-year number? Yes okay -- on the ratio? Yes we plan for example the inventory in the end of the second quarter to be above last year.
But the turn will be up because the sales are up.
And our view is to grow inventory less than we grow sales.
And there's one last -- 2 last things.
Number one from the product that you're seeing out there for I guess holiday now or even -- I don't know if you're seeing spring '12 yet.
From what you're seeing as far as innovation? What are you seeing there? How's it making you feel? And two you mentioned in the casual business or lifestyle business you're trying to grow that.
Are you seeing any move towards classics white leather business? That's the business that's sort have been on the sidelines for some time now.
Well I'll answer your second question first.
Yes we are seeing classics.
And white leather business is doing well so that business continues.
And things like the All-Stars things like the Chuck Taylors and those things continue to perform well and so the classics are doing well.
In terms of innovation yes we're seeing some good innovation out there.
And I feel comfortable with the innovation we're seeing.
So I will -- if it's all right we'll extend the call for a few minutes more and take a question or two more.
We have a question from Bob Drbul from Barclays Capital.
I guess just a couple of questions on the category performance.
Can you talk a little bit about -- the House of Hoops concept is it outperforming your basketball performance in your own stores? And can you talk a little bit about that RUN test store that you have? And how are those stores doing versus when you have a broader arrangement of categories in your store? The House of Hoops we have a higher productivity than we do in the Foot Locker store.
And they are performing very well.
But they're store within stores for the most part now.
Almost all of them that we're opening -- although we just opened one in Europe that was a separate store.
But almost all of the ones we're opening now are side-by-side.
They have a higher productivity than the store and they bring the overall store up.
Actually the interesting thing is they bring in an additional customer and they shop the whole store and they shop the House of Hoops.
So that's been very good for us.
It in terms of the RUN stores we've opened the 2.
We're looking for a limited number of more because those are very special stores.
But what it's done is and in our Empire store here on 34th Street we put in a format.
We've done it in Australia/Pacific that is a similar look and feel.
We've upgrade the running assortment within those stores and we're seeing a benefit.
So where the RUN stores have been particularly helpful is the things the learnings that we can apply to more of the Foot Locker stores.
And so you're going to see more of the format look of those RUN stores that we have in Foot Locker stores.
For example we moved running up to the front of the store along with basketball so you enter the store and on one side it's basketball and one side's running for Men.
And then we move Kids and Women to the back of the store.
We've seen a benefit from that.
And the learnings from the RUN store are more about running than they are -- for the Foot Locker than they are about those stores in particular.
Okay and then just my last question is as you look at what you guys have delivered thus far in the year and where you are today and the promotional environment for the rest of the year do you think it will be more intense as you get into back-to-school or about the same level from where we are today? I think about where we are today.
You look at how the business is running.
We're on a -- obviously benefiting from a trend and hopefully nobody will do anything stupid.
But right now I think we're taking advantage of the trend as an industry and so that's good.
That said we talked about all the headwinds and all the things that could be an issue.
That may have an impact on what happens there and we'll have to wait and see.
The good news is we're positioned well with the product with our inventory to manage along either front we feel.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I think that's all we have time for today.
All right operator? Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the second quarter 2011 earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press releases and SEC filing.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received yesterday's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Foot Locker's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Our prepared remarks today will begin with Lauren Peters who on July 1 was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Lauren will provide details about our second quarter financial results and update our outlook for the rest of 2011.
Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will then follow with an overview of our progress and executing our strategic plan including how we intend to address some of the near-term challenges we face in the athletic industry and the economy generally.
After these prepared remarks we will have time to answer your questions.
Welcome Lauren.
Thank you John and good morning.
I am very pleased to be here for my first Foot Locker earnings release conference call.
Of course being able to report earnings of $0.24 per share 6x higher than the earnings we generated in the second quarter last year was an excellent way to start.
The momentum we gained in the first quarter which was consistent across all major product categories and regions carried on through the second quarter.
During our previous call in May Bob McHugh mentioned that we will be planning the rest of 2011 cautiously.
But then we also felt well prepared to capitalize on the positive factors contributing to our first quarter success and capitalizing on those factors is just what we did again in the second quarter.
We achieved an 11.8% comp store sales increase continuing a strong top line sales that we demonstrated in the first quarter.
Total sales increased 16.3% when factoring in the impact of foreign currency and increased 11.7% on a constant currency basis.
We posted low double digit comp gains in both May and June while July came in at high single digits.
We chose not to anniversary a couple of promotional events on July so although comp sales were not double digits that month demand was stable throughout the quarter.
Margins were significantly better not just in July but throughout the quarter.
Encouragingly all of our divisions posted a comp gain in July.
Geographically the second quarter unfolded very much as the first did with our International divisions matching our expectation by producing a mid-single digit comp increase.
Foot Locker Europe our largest international division was the strongest performer followed by Foot Locker Canada.
The U.S.
businesses were again the star performers of the quarter.
Our total domestic store businesses posted overall comps in the low teens while our Direct to Customer segment which includes Eastbay tops 20% comps for the second consecutive quarter.
Within the Direct to Customer segment our store banner dot-com site continues to deliver our strongest comparison.
Among the store divisions the sales gains later for the quarter was Champs.
However all our divisions posted a comp in the quarter with the exception of Lady Foot Locker.
Early in the quarter Lady Foot Locker was up against significant toning business from a year ago.
Our second quarter comps were broadly based across our divisions and were strong across all families of business as footwear apparel and accessory comps were all up double digits.
Unit sales and average selling prices were both up again in the second quarter.
Within overall footwear Men's and Kids' posted double-digit comps.
Over all Women's comps were up mid single-digit a certain categories of Women's footwear especially technical and lightweight running continue to more than offset the last remaining headwinds from the toning category.
Last quarter we highlighted the acceleration of our apparel business and that trend continued in the second quarter with overall apparel comps in the teens and in the high teens in the U.S.
Our customers continue to respond favorably to the improved and fresh apparel assortments we offer in each of our banners.
Our gross margin rate increased by 260 basis points compared to the 200 basis point improvement we achieved in Q1.
The gross margin story in the second quarter was much the same as in the first quarter.
We effectively leveraged our predominantly fixed buying and occupancy expenses.
This leverage added 170 basis points to our overall margin rate.
Merchandise margin contributed 90 basis points of the gross margin improvement in the current quarter above the outlook of 40 to 60 basis points we provided in May.
The improvement in merchandise margin comes primarily from better merchandise flow which is allowing us to continue reducing our markdown rate especially on footwear.
So anticipating your question our margins on apparel are still below footwear margin but we continue to work on closing the gap.
The good news is that margins remain on the upswing in both categories as well as in Accessories and we see opportunities for further improvement ahead.
SG&amp;A expenses as a percent to sales declined by 90 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2010 as we continue to manage our cost carefully.
SG&amp;A dollars increased 12% but more than half of this increase was related to variable expenses that flex up with higher sales and the effect of stronger foreign currencies on our expenses as reported in U.S.
dollars.
As mentioned on our last call much of the remainder of the SG&amp;A increase was due to our additional investment in marketing and advertising program.
We began the second quarter with an exciting campaign to reposition Champs Sports in the marketplace and establish that banner as the place to go for those who know game.
Given that Champs has been the leader among the store divisions in driving our overall comps so far this year we are pleased with the returns we are seeing on that investment.
We also spent more on marketing in Europe and certain other divisions including the Direct to Customer segment all of which we believe has contributed to our strong and broad-based performance.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was also pressured somewhat by stronger foreign currencies and was $28 million compared to last year's $26 million.
Interest expense was $1 million down slightly from last year's $2 million due to an uptick in investment income earned on our cash balances.
Our second quarter effective income tax rate was 36% not materially different from last year's 38.8% given the second quarter earnings are lower relative to the rest of the year.
We still expect our full year tax rate to be about 37%.
The combination of these factors allowed us to produce our Q2 EPS result of $0.24 per share our best second quarter since 2005.
It also brought our year-to-date EPS to $0.84 per share tied with 2004 for the best result over the first 6 months of the year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our merchandise inventory was up $50 million or 4% over last year.
Some of this increase was the result of our decision to deliver additional private label product earlier in the back-to-school season.
Our inventory aging continues to improve in each of our divisions as well as within the tighter aging standards we established at the beginning of 2010.
As a result our inventory is clearly more productive but we still see opportunities to improve as we implement new merchandise flow initiative.
Our operating cash flow continued to be strong as a result of our higher earnings and better inventory productivity.
We ended the second quarter with cash and short-term investments of $681 million an increase of $162 million from a year ago.
Our steady cash flow allows us to continue to execute the strategic capital allocation steps we have outlined on previous calls.
First we are well along in implementing our program to invest approximately $160 million of capital directly into the business this year.
Most of the expenditures will go towards new stores and remodeling our existing location but we are also supporting the growth of our e-commerce business by investing in additional online and mobile features and functionality.
Second we increased our dividend by 10% at the beginning of the year at $0.165 per quarter our current dividend payout remains one of the attractive in our industry.
And thirdly we spent approximately $29 million in the second quarter to repurchase 1 255 000 shares of our common stock.
This brings the number of shares repurchased year-to-date to just under 2.8 million at a cost of $59 million.
Clearly we outperformed expectations in the second quarter just as we did in the first quarter.
We are enthusiastic about the strength of demand across a wide variety of athletic footwear and apparel style.
Our venture partners are doing an excellent job supporting this cycle with their ongoing innovation and focus on customer preferences.
Meanwhile we are consistently executing our own strategy which Ken will review in a few moments.
These Foot Locker specific initiatives are definitely helping us build momentum.
That said there is still more than a little uncertainty in the economic outlook globally.
There are many external factors such as rising retail and commodity prices stubbornly high unemployment disappointingly weak economic growth here and abroad and various geopolitical uncertainties that could impact our business around the world.
Therefore I'll spend the rest of my remarks outlining our current thinking for the rest of 2011.
Recall that we posted strong comps at 8.1% and 7.2% respectively in the third and fourth quarters of 2010.
Given those strong results we originally plan the back half of this year in the mid-single digit comp range and this is still where we are planning it.
Achieving that level of sales would bring the full year comp gain to high single digits factoring in the double-digit comps we have posted through the first half.
We are prepared if customer demand supports even higher sales but given the volatility we see in the external environment we will remain cautious.
Given our ability to execute against additional opportunities to improve merchandise flow and based on the comp assumption I just gave we now expect our gross margin rate to improve about 60 to 70 basis points over the remainder of the year versus the 40 to 60 basis points we mentioned on the last call.
We are encouraged by this potential improvement especially in light of the fact that we will be comping against last year's already significantly improved footwear and apparel margins.
SG&amp;A expense dollars are likely to increase in the mid single-digit range over the rest of the year as we factor in our ongoing strategic investment and powerful marketing campaign as well as stronger foreign currency.
Annual depreciation expense is now projected to be in the $108 million to $110 million range up a couple of million dollars from our previous outlook as FX rates are having an upward impact in this area as well.
Interest expense is trending to be about $7 million down from the estimate of $10 million with which we started the year.
And as I mentioned we continue to forecast our income tax rate for the year at about 37%.
The strength of the currencies in the regions where we operate is likely to add $0.03 to $0.04 per share to the translation of our 2011 net income compared to 2010 FX rates.
Given that we have strong comps in the third quarter last year we are pleased that so far in August the back-to-school season comp gains have been running in the mid single-digit range in line with our expectations for the period.
We are confident that our strategies have us on the right track to achieve sustained earnings performance over the long term.
I'm pleased to now turn the program over to Ken who will provide you with color on the specific strategies that are driving our current strong performance.
Thank you Lauren.
It's good to have you here.
Good morning everyone.
As is evident from the excellent second quarter results we announced yesterday we continue to have broad-based success along a wide range of the athletic footwear and apparel marketplace and we're showing that we can sustain our performance over time.
As Lauren mentioned we produced double-digit comps in both of the last 2 quarters but perhaps more importantly we've now posted 6 consecutive quarters of sales and profit increases.
Lauren also mentioned that our year-to-date EPS total of $0.84 per share matches our best first half results of any year in the previous decade.
As proud as our team is of that accomplishment the most exciting part is that every day we are seeing and capitalizing on opportunities to get even better whether that opportunity is next quarter or next year.
The results of the last few quarters have certainly reinforced our conviction that the initiatives that we have taken to support our vision which is to be the leading global retailer of athletically-inspired shoes and apparel are the right ones to drive our connection and success with the customer.
First we broadened the range of athletic shoes and apparel that we offer and have reached more customers by clearly defining our brand banners.
We started by defining more thoughtfully what each of our banners stands for and then committed to merchandising the stores accordingly.
Through new fixturing and other initiatives we've also differentiated the look and feel of the stores.
Once these key initial steps were in place we were able to invest in powerful marketing programs to ensure our customers are aware of what each of our banners stands for.
We mentioned the most prominent example from the second quarter which was the new positioning of Champs Sports.
But all of our banners are implementing stronger marketing efforts to some extent and we see the results in improved traffic to our stores even in an environment in which overall mall traffic is not up.
As a result of these initiatives our improvements have been consistent across many areas.
We enhanced our assortment of running shoes and within running lightweight running was up the most led by shoes like the Nike Free and Lunar as well as Reebok with the Flex and Zig.
Other brands such as Adidas New Balance and ASICS are also delivering innovative lightweight product.
Technical running is still strong with Mizuno Brooks and Saucony joining the other brands in building excitement in this category.
Meanwhile we haven't lost the step in the basketball category where we maintain our solid leadership position.
We continue to roll out our House of Hoops stores mostly within existing Foot Locker stores and plan to have about 50 of them worldwide by the year end.
Player-endorsed marquee footwear including Jordan Kobe and Lebron and the Crazy Light road shoe all sold well throughout the quarter even after the NBA season was over.
Although not basketball footwear per se various marquee styles of Griffey  shoes also performed well and Converse continues to be a very solid force.
As a result we have a much more diversified portfolio of offerings than we have had in the past: running basketball apparel and lifestyle constitute a solid base a 4-leg stool upon which to successfully navigate changing customer preferences.
All of our banners are participating in the recent success.
CCS for example while still not as productive as we expect it to be has begun to turn the corner on the top line with comp sales gains in the second quarter.
Our second major initiative to improve our apparel business is still a work in progress.
But we certainly continue to move the business forward as can be seen from the high-teen comps we produced in the U.S.
The major brands continue to respond to customer demand by effectively hooking up their footwear and apparel offerings.
A powerful example of this is the Adi color program which is driving sales gains in many of our markets around the world with this kind of innovation.
Our branded business is leading the way in terms of apparel improvements.
We've also taken on board some of the lessons from last year's efforts to create a meaningful private label apparel business and expect to see more gains in this category during the back-to-school selling season.
Our licensed business meanwhile although somewhat inconsistent is showing improvement too.
We believe our inventories are in very good shape.
They're growing but at a slower rate than sales a sure sign of improved productivity.
Fresher more productive inventory of course means full price selling and less clearance activity.
And having fresh apparel inventory has certainly contributed significantly to our ability to differentiate our brand banners.
Third our stores and Internet sites are becoming more exciting places to shop and buy.
A key driver of strong customer demand right now is product newness.
The vendors are delivering this newness and our inventory position provides us with the flexibility to continue flowing in fresh merchandise in line with this demand.
Good examples of this were in Q2 were a highly visible Nike Fresh Air campaign and the new Reebok Flex program across all of our channels which we believe helped keep customers coming to our stores and online.
We've also rolled out what we called flipbooks in all of our domestic banners which allow customers to compare styles and see what additional colorways and sizes are available from us whether in another store or online.
We also keep innovating in our stores designs as can be seen in our new Champs prototype stores in the Tyrone Square Mall in St.
Petersburg.
We've been successful in driving customers to our Internet sites and catalogs as the 20-plus percent comps that we've achieved there for the past 2 quarters clearly demonstrates.
As noted in our previous call we recently introduced Sneakerpedia an online community powered by Foot Locker dedicated to the sneaker fanatic.
This effort won the Gold Lion award over hundreds of entrants in the cyber category at the Cannes Festival of Creativity during the second quarter an accomplishment for which we are very proud.
The fourth initiative of our strategic plan is to pursue growth opportunities.
We are expanding our international position by concentrating our new store growth in Europe this year.
A good example of this is our new flagship store in Central Milan which contains a House of Hoops section and helps to solidify an already strong position in that market.
We're also filling in stores in countries where we're under penetrated or where new malls are being developed.
Finally we're expanding geographically with 2 new stores in the Czech Republic already opened this year and we expect to open our first store in Poland this fall.
We continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our assets which is the fifth element of our strategic plans.
In many of our stores we've rearranged the presentation of running basketball and women's assortments along the shoe walls in order to maximize the productivity of our space.
We've also shown again in the second quarter our ability to lever our fixed expenses into significantly higher gross margin rates and solid profit flow through.
I'm pleased with our ongoing overall expense discipline which gives us the flexibility to invest a certain amount of expense dollars into powerful profit-generating initiatives such as the Champs Sports marketing program we mentioned earlier today.
Our inventory turns are improving and our sales both per square foot and per payroll hour are going up across almost all of our divisions.
In addition we're investing in systems to drive further operational efficiencies in the future.
As a result our profit rates and returns on capital are going up steadily and we make good progress towards the financial goals embedded in our strategic plan.
Finally we continue to build on our industry-leading retail team.
In May we announced several management changes including of course the promotion of Lauren to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer succeeding Bob McHugh who has transitioned to a new role as Executive Vice President Operations Support.
This change will allow us to focus more attention on driving best-in-class processes globally across our support functions.
On the division leadership side we've consolidated the leadership of all of our stores worldwide under Dick Johnson while also elevating the Direct to Customer segment under Dahl Telema [ph] which I have mentioned is the fastest-growing part of our business to report directly to me.
I believe that making major senior management moves such as these is best done when things are going well.
This management reorganization will allow us to focus our key business units on improving execution and to continue building on our recent success.
Consistent with our strategic priorities it will also enable us to strengthen our brands and put more emphasis on our high-potential growth areas of dot-com and international development.
Before I take your questions let me address some of the concerns that I'm sure many of you have about how events and things outside of our control may impact our business.
First I cannot predict whether the NBA lockout will result in a cancellation of some or all of the upcoming season.
We certainly hope not because we would expect this might have some impact on our business.
As we saw the NFL settled at the last minute and we're pleased there won't be any disruption there.
It is no doubt possible that the NBA lockout will go down to the wire as well.
I'd rather go into that scenario as the leader in basketball instead of as a follower because we believe the customer for the basketball silhouette is not going away and knows to come to us for the styles he wants.
Meanwhile we're working closely with the major brands to develop contingency plans to minimize the impact a lockout would have not just on us but on the industry as a whole.
For competitive reasons we don't want to go into too many details but they could include initiatives such as additional player appearances and events emphasizing the NCAA basketball encouraging personal participation and so on.
We believe that eventually the NBA will get back to playing.
In the meantime many of the key players will be visible playing somewhere whether in Europe or in local 3-on-3 competitions and this will help sustain interest in the basketball category.
Second input costs are rising especially towards the end of the year and into early next year.
We feel well positioned to maintain our margins through selective retail price increases which we believe will not have a significant impact on unit sales given the strong product cycle we see continuing into next year.
Our products are a highly-desired item for many of our customers who are not likely to be deterred by manageable price increases.
That brings me back to the general economy which is a factor definitely outside of our control.
As Lauren mentioned during her remarks some dark clouds remain on the economic horizon.
However they've been there all year and we've still managed to post strong comp sales increases.
The ongoing possibility of another economic downturn makes for a challenging consumer environment and we continue to plan cautiously.
However even in this environment we see more opportunities for continued growth of our business.
To sum up the quarter we delivered outstanding execution of our strategic initiatives on many fronts.
I'm very proud of the entire team of Foot Locker from store associates engaging directly with individual customers to all of the support staff around the world at every level of the organization.
I want to thank them for their efforts.
With all of us guided by our core values I'm proud that we significantly increased sales and profits across all geographies families of business and major categories.
But the race is far from over in fact we can see some possible bumps and potholes in the track ahead in terms of the external risks I just outlined.
So we're going to continue to focus on our strategies and initiatives and look for new and better ways to deliver exciting products to our customers.
Thank you.
And we'll now be happy to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions]  The first question is from Bobby Ohmes from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just 2 questions for you.
First terrific results but the apparel is really great to see that comping so high.
Can you give us a little more detail on the product outlook in apparel for fall and holiday? Are you looking to do more with Under Armour with your Storm Cotton expansion et cetera? Are there other brands that you think could come into the store either this fall or for holiday that could keep that momentum going? And then the second question would be on International growth and are you looking at accelerating meaningfully either European growth or entering a new markets.
There's a lot of focus out there these days on mono-brand stores in Eastern Europe and China sort of getting saturated and the need for multi-brand stores.
And just curious your strategic thoughts on Foot Locker sort of getting involved in that.
Sure.
Thank you.
On the apparel outlook we definitely feel that there's significant opportunity with all of our branded vendors.
We've got new programs that we're putting in place from Nike and depending on the banner more lifestyle in a banner such as Footaction and more performance in Foot Locker.
The Charged Cotton program has worked well for us from Under Armour and that's an opportunity for growth.
We've got our own private brand which we really didn't concentrate on over the past year that were strengthening.
We got for example a new brand in lady's that's called Actra that we put in that's met with success.
But we see the growth in apparel coming pretty evenly from both our brands and our private label.
It's coming from new programs and items that they have.
But also just -- a part of it is just getting our assortment right by banner.
So I think we continue to see good growth there.
In International our major emphasis will be in Europe and it's really threefold there.
First in countries that we're not in we just announced as I said the Czech Republic and I think this is the first time we've come out and said Poland.
Both of those are significant opportunities.
In underdeveloped countries where we are not as heavily penetrated France is a good example of that turkey we've got one store and there's an opportunity there.
And then even in developed markets like Italy where we have a lot of stores they're opening malls and that provides an opportunity.
So Europe is a significant opportunity.
With regards to other locales we are looking and exploring opportunities but we don't have any definite plans at this time.
The next question is from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> I guess I'm curious when you look at your Footwear business right now and the repositioning that you've done in that business over the past 18 months or so more running more sneaker business more training et cetera.
Kind of where are you right now in that transformation from a product perspective and maybe from a margin perspective at this point? On a product perspective I think we have made a lot of progress but we still have a ways to go in terms of positioning ourselves.
And quite frankly we've really stepped up all the legs and as I said in the call basketball we're obviously strong on.
And it's good to see the basketball business has come back and working with Nike and the introduction of basketball shoes from people like Adi Reebok and Under Armour all support the growth of this business.
Running is a business that we're continuing to find our way in and we've sold a lot of running shoes for a long time.
But we've really positioned ourselves more strongly there and finding the right items to put in the right stores provide a good opportunity there and we're learning our ability to sell performance running is much bigger than we probably anticipated and we're expanding that.
And then the third is the lifestyle and we're seeing good opportunities there with things like Converse and growing and expanding the business there in Kids.
When you look at lifestyle we've got Ralph Lauren and Skechers.
And so we've got an opportunity to have all 3 legs to improve and grow.
And if you ask it's difficult to say what inning because you never get to the end of the game.
There's always innings added.
But I think we still have a fair ways to go before we get positioned the way that I would feel satisfied.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then I know you don't want to talk too much about the NBA and what's going on there from a competitive perspective and what you're thinking.
But I guess from an exposure perspective I mean Footwear is much more fashion forward it's a much more of a fashion-related business there are some technical attributes there.
But it seems like there will be some risk but may be more so on the apparel side and maybe you have a lot of flexibly to make changes from a license perspective.
I guess maybe just add any color at all in terms of your thinking or thoughts where that risk were may lay? And does Nike possibly or some of the key brands defer some launches possibly until there's some clarity? First of all I want to preface by saying I have no idea of what's going to happen on this.
But we are working with them on things that we can do to keep the business alive and I mentioned some of the elements.
The players are going to be playing.
Almost all of the key players has said they will be playing.
And the customers will still -- you may be watching Kobe play in Turkey or something but you're going to --  they're going to watch Kobe.
Or they may be seeing Lebron play a 3-on-3 tournament versus a regular NBA game.
And that I think will keep the excitement up.
But I think you hit the key point this is more a lifestyle and that -- we know that the young people are loyal to those players and they follow the players and we're going to keep the visibility up enough that there will be opportunities for appropriate launches and our shoes will be exciting.
So I think that there's -- this fall whether there probably could be some impact on some of the team apparel which is a business of ours but it's not a huge business.
We're thinking with regard to the shoes and the apparel that people play on the court to play themselves because they might have some more time to go out on the weekend or the evening and play themselves that provides an opportunity.
LLLP</strong> Okay helpful.
My last question real quick on the improvement in the gross margin you'll expect in the back half maybe you can talk about how much of that is just coming from opportunity to leverage occupancy and how much of that just coming I guess from product margins any thoughts about that? Well we'd certainly expect the metrics that we saw in the first half to be the pattern that would follow in the second half.
So as we have comp increases we've got predominantly fixed occupancy and buying cost.
We can really lever against that but we do still expect the fundamental improvements that we're making in merchandise flow will continue to give us benefit in the product margin.
Chris one of the things that -- the last year some of that margin improvement has come from event reductions that we've had and we've played out that.
We still have some things that we can do.
But we see the big opportunity coming for us is the improvement in the flow and the ability to sell more regular price and reduce the level of markdowns that we have to take.
The next question is from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
I guess the first question I have is within the guidance that you're giving how -- where are you looking at the NBA lockout and these other things or is your guidance say -- is your guidance sort of taking in that you just don't know yet and if the NBA lockout goes away things will get better? How are you -- just what's in that -- in the way you're talking about the balance of the year? I would say that our guidance includes the possibility that there will be some games missed.
It does not include as we said the whole season.
So we kind of averaged nothing to everything.
And so we think there'll probably could be some games missed.
The good news is that early in the season in NBA it's kind of like the game the first half isn't very meaningful but the fourth quarter is very meaningful.
Early in the season is not as impactful as it is as the season goes along.
And then I just want -- you said hold on I'm sorry.
Lauren welcome to this fun.
And you said just in the improvement of the merchandise margins for the back half how were you talking about that? Because you went very quickly and I missed it I'm sorry.
Okay.
We've said that the back half that we continue to expect improvement.
And that although we were originally thinking 40 to 60 basis points in the back half we're now thinking that that's going to be more in the range of...
60 to 70.
60 to 70.
And then lastly in the numbers that you -- in the guidance to sort of mid to I guess to high single sort of balance of the year.
Just looking at the numbers 2 things.
One it looks like Q3 might be a little more difficult than Q4 just on the comparisons.
And two what are you thinking about as far as the impact of currency within -- how are you thinking about the impact of currency? Is it similar to the second quarter or not quite as much? I'll take the first part of that and then Lauren will repeat what she said in the presentation.
And the first part on them when we say said mid to high or the...
Mid for the rest of the year...
Mid for the rest of the year.
Averages for the full year to high-single digits.
Yes high-single digits.
High-single digits for the rest of the year.
Yes we said mid.
Right.
So one of the things look at is the 2-year stack the 2-year stacks about the same with the first half.
So you think mid -- you can run all right okay very good.
And then Lauren on the currency? So we're expecting that the foreign currencies will add $0.03 to $0.04 per share to the translation of our income for the full year compared to last year.
And it's already been about $0.02 in the...
Year-to-date.
Year-to-date.
It's a little less than $0.02 for the second quarter.
That helps? It does.
The next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Just a quick housekeeping question on the guidance.
In that guidance do you expect Europe to comp positive with that guidance? And I guess also Canada I'm just kind of trying to think about how you're thinking about international for the back half of the year based on...
All International business has been pretty steady.
Canada for the first quarter was a little bit soft because of the -- they were up against the Olympics last year.
But we expect them to comp up in that mid-single digits to maintain their current performance.
Okay.
And then just -- I know it's early to talk about 2012 but if I look back at the Analyst Day you hosted at headquarters last year in March.
The gross margin guidance you gave was 30% to 31%.
That was a 5-year target and if I just look at the trailing 4 quarters you're now 31.1%.
So we're kind of above where you thought you'd be in 5 years already.
So obviously congrats on that.
But to look at it another way you're not telling me like the back half is going to delever by 25 basis points.
You're telling us it's going to continue to lever.
So I'm just trying to think as we think out more long term now how should we be thinking about gross margins and where you think they should go to at this point? Well we want to get through 2011 before we project 2012 Michael.
But with the programs that we put in place for flow we believe we can have continued success with our margins.
As we hit the objectives that we set forth in our plan in 2010 we will adjust those accordingly.
But I want to make sure we hit them before we reset them.
Is it fair to assume that from here if we look more I guess at the operating margin guidance you gave us is it fair to assume that we see more of the leverage on the SG&amp;A side than gross margins going forward I guess on the longer-term basis? I think on longer term it's too early to call on that and partially because there's some volatility and pricing went up and some of the components have now come down and so there'll be adjustments on that.
So it's a little too early to call.
Let me ask you a different way.
I think trailing 4 quarters you have about 22% of revenues on SG&amp;A and I think your target was for 20% to 21% longer term.
So maybe you could just help us think about would more of that come from increasing your sales per foot? Or -- I think you listed sales per foot increases and also reductions in expenses.
Maybe you can help us think about those and how much will come from each? Probably we're going to continue to push on expenses but there's some elements of expenses such as marketing that we're going to continue to grow.
So a lot of it will come from productivity improvements.
The next question is from Robert Samuels from WJB Capital.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question.
Just given the strength of the balance sheet and Ken it sounds like your positive outlook on the business why do you not think about doing something a little bit more substantial with regards to either buyback or something some sort of returning value to shareholders here? We continue to have a very balanced approach in use of cash.
We feel that we got one of the highest yields yielding dividends in our space or almost in any space.
We have an active stock buyback program going on and we've got good opportunities for investments within our current business and we plan to continue that and take advantage of other possibilities for investments in our business.
And then finally the economic situation as we stated is still uncertain enough as recently as on -- so I'm watching TV this morning the people are talking about the need for making sure that maintain flexibility by having a good balance sheet.
So those are the 4 things and we feel that with our -- the dividend program and the stock buyback program we have we are making sure that we take care of our investors.
Inc.</strong> Fair enough.
And then can you just elaborate on some of the new merchandise flow initiative that you mentioned just with respect to inventories? Well we've got a number of those and Lauren actually has been the leader of that effort.
So I'll let her talk about them.
Well it's all about getting the product to the right stores at the right time.
And it can be as simple as deciding how long a product is going to be in your stores and then staging the delivery of it to live over that life cycle.
No need to bring it all in from day one if it's going to sell over a period of several months.
So these are the types of things that we work with our vendors on and we invest in our merchandise systems to help us go after.
So things like -- we used to buy a big chunk of the merchandise upfront.
Now we buy less of it upfront and we have multiple flows use more items on replenishment.
We're looking at new allocation systems to make sure that we get the right sizes in the right store and looking at different activities that improve the flow of merchandise to as Lauren said get the right merchandise in the right store at the right time at the right quantity at the right price.
And in the right sizes.
And in the right sizes thank you.
There's a lot of elements.
The next question is from Kate McShane from Citi Investments.
If I could focus my question on just the marketing aspect of your business and I know you're investing in all your banners.
But I wondered if you could talk to why you decided to take Champs first in regards to the focus of your marketing investment and with the success that you've seen are there any near-term plans to turn some of the focus on the other banners? The Champs was -- because Champs probably was one of the banners of that was had lost some of its identity in the consumer market.
And I don't know if you've seen the program that we launched in May and June but it's really gets the customer who Champs customer is and what they expect from Champs.
So the reason for Champs was it was a good place for us to test it and it also was probably more necessary there.
We are looking at programs for the other banners and stepping them up and be more definitive.
We -- I think the educator program that we have going on at Foot Locker right now really speaks to their customer and who they are.
Great.
And while we're focused on banners I think you had a comment during your prepared comments on Lady Foot Locker and how it comped relative to the house.
And I wondered if you could just repeat that? And is it more of an element of lapping the toning business or is there something else going on with Women's footwear or Lady Foot Locker that is a reason for a slightly lower comp? I think the first is what you said that the lapping the toning we've seen a significant improvement from where it was.
That said we continue to look and evaluate and as do the vendors how we can do a better job with our Women's business.
As Lauren said we're overall up in Women's across the entire company.
Lady has been a little bit more challenging.
But we think that as we -- to better define that and get that position right we will -- there's a tremendous opportunity there are actually probably more women who workout than men.
Men play games and women have a tendency to exercise and workout.
My very last question is on CapEx.
Thank you for outlining where the dollars are going between remodel opening stores and e-commerce.
But I wondered if you can tell us where more of the dollars are going over the second half of the year? Well it's not so much a first half second half split because it's really pretty consistent.
The majority of the dollars go to our store fleet between new stores and remodeling existing stores with a fair amount invested though in our e-commerce business which is certainly a big growth area for us.
And systems infrastructure to support both brick and mortar and the e-commerce business.
But there -- across the year there's not a tremendous difference in that breakout.
Yes we spend a little more in the first part just because we aren't doing a lot of store stuff in the fourth quarter.
Well that's true.
But completing the project we take a pause during back-to-school because we don't want to do that [indiscernible] of stores.
So the back half gets a little less in stores.
But overall there's not that much variable in the percentage between stores and non-stores.
The next question is from Eric Tracy from FBR Capital Markets.
So Ken if we think about back half obviously a lot of macro uncertainty.
But just in terms of the sustainability of the athletic cycle can you speak to kind of a visibility you have to kind of new pipeline sales new product innovations coming? Obviously the compare is different particularly on the running side.
Just trying to get a sense of sort of visibility be at the back half of this year maybe into spring '12? Well we've got -- we don't want to give away any trade secrets but we do work with the vendors upfront and we feel good about the launches that we have coming up this fall.
We feel good about the product both in terms of running and basketball.
And the other thing to keep in mind next year is an Olympic year and there's a huge step-up historically by the brands during an Olympic year and also interest of the consumer.
So the pipeline that we can see looks pretty good.
Okay.
And then just sort of following on that in terms of -- you mentioned obviously the input cost coming through be it 4Q or into 1Q next year.
You seemed to be pretty comfortable in the elasticity maybe you can speak to what on average type price increases we might expect? I know you're not going to get too specific on a category or product basis but just -- how should we be thinking about that and what's sort of embedded within the guidance? Well it varies by shoes so much it's very difficult to say exactly what the increase will be.
The other advantage that we have over other businesses is that the shoes change.
So one type -- one -- in the spring a shoe may cost this and then the sister to that shoe that comes out in the fall or next spring is higher but there's some bells and whistles that have been added.
So it's not a comparable price increase.
It's not like a can of Coke is $0.50 today and it's a $0.60 tomorrow because it's the same can of Coke.
This is different merchandise and there's in fact continued value add to warrant some of the increase.
But it varies by shoe and by price point.
There are some shoes that there are no increases coming on.
There are other shoes they're maybe $5 to $7 or $8 on.
And in some cases some of the most desired shoes launch shoes that maybe $10.
But those shoes sellout in one day.
And if that shoes is $10 higher I don't think that will slow it down.
But even if it does and it goes into the second day we wouldn't notice it.
Okay that's fair.
And then maybe just lastly turning to real estate domestically in particular.
Maybe just speak to where you are from a lease renegotiation versus maybe closing of underperforming doors versus maybe just feeling better about the productivity levels and therefore even on a net basis opening some doors.
Just maybe you speak to the real estate side? We feel good about the real estate and we talked this year about being flat.
The irony is that because we feel good about the real estate we may take a few more closures of stores that we think are not going to come out of it just to -- it's a good time to clean up.
So flat to closing a few more stores.
But we constantly are moving through adding stores and closing stores.
The openings for the most part are in the states -- I'm sorry are in Europe and the closings for the most part are in the states.
But I think one of the things we would like to do is close some of the underperforming stores to give us an opportunity to open some more stores in the states going forward.
So that we kind of cleaned up the market a bit.
The next question is from Bob Durbl from Barclays Capital.
I was wondering if you guys could put a little bit more color around some of the early reads on back-to-school by markets or any changes within the different nameplates throughout the business.
And the second question that I have is you talked about the contingency plans with the overhang of the NBA lockout.
Have you canceled any orders or have you put orders on hold? What are the opportunities around contingency plans? On the early reads we've said that we're running where we thought we'd be mid-single digits.
That said the stores that have already gone back-to-school have -- they're performing well which actually gives us a little a little bit of optimism because we know that more and more kids are going back to school and then buying.
So it comes later.
So if we're where we want to be now it's possible it could get better.
But right now we're happy with where we are.
And I wouldn't -- I'm not disappointed and I'm not overly enthusiastic.
I just think it's good and good is good.
With regards to the contingency on the NBA one of the things that the program that Lauren worked with the vendors are in flow actually helps this because we're able to closer to the vest with the vendors and we haven't necessarily -- we haven't canceled any orders but we've got more flexibility than we would've had last year at this time.
And then in terms of the flexibility is it just because you will take delivery later? And there's still the opportunity to cancel? We can -- for example a particular shoe as we said we would take a certain amount upfront and then there will be a follow-on and a follow-on.
And the third follow-on may be contingent.
We may be able to cancel but we'd have enough read that we can cancel it and they're not stuck with it.
So it's not -- in the past you'd buy it all at once and you say but that's not -- we don't sell it with the exception of some launches all in one day it sells over time.
The next question is from Bernard Sosnick from Guilford Securities.
Could you give us some examples of systems you've invested in and how it may be improving the business? We've invested and put in a planning system that we feel has helped us significantly in our planning and the ability to move the flow.
We have invested in a new POS system in Europe that sped up customer transactions and information.
We have invested in inventory visibility.
So we know a store knows when a customer comes in if they don't have it is it online? Or is it in another store nearby that they can the shoe.
But those are -- we've invested in handhelds that allow the associate to on the floor know whether they have the shoe in the stockroom or it's somewhere else but those are some examples.
Ken you've had a history of having a catalog into that report to you elsewhere.
Now that it's doing so with Foot Locker what do you see as the opportunities in terms of how things may change at Foot Locker and be enhanced? Well catalog is a tremendous opportunity or in a catalog with a Direct to Consumer the Internet is a tremendous opportunity.
The biggest thing that we got an opportunity with is better connecting the banners with the stores and we're starting to see that the thing that I just said about being able to know that they can go online and they got that shoe online.
The flipbooks I talked about so that somebody comes in and they see for example an Adi shoe in 3 colors to know that there's 5 or 6 colors or a Nike the basketball team comes in and they see green and blue but the school color -- the team color is red and they say "We want 5 pairs or 7 pairs in red can we get red?" And they know and we can go online.
Marketing the events doing more events together.
So the coordination is the big play.
We also are looking at other opportunities in terms of efficiency and things like that.
So I feel that we've got tremendous opportunities Dahl [ph] and I are getting to know each other a lot better.
And I was just up there and he was just with me at another recent meeting.
We're working closer with the vendors than we ever have in the past.
So this is something -- our goal as I said is to get our banner dot-com businesses up to about 10% of the brick and mortar and we're not there yet.
We've got a ways to go in some of the banners and we're working on that.
One other point on Lady Foot Locker.
To my eye the stores look a lot better than they did before and you sort of suggested that there's an opportunity to turn those stores into something much better.
Is there something coming within the next year or so? Could you give us a little bit of explanation about that? Well I think that we continue to look and evaluate that business while it's improved and I appreciate that.
When you look at the -- what we can do -- for example we can sell more apparel.
That's why we put in a stronger presence with Nike and with Adi and our own private brand the type of apparel we sell is an opportunity make it more feminine and we've got some work to do there.
I think you will continue to see improvements and evolution.
Don't know if it'll be a revolution at this point.
But we are going to make -- based upon the customer base based upon what other retailers are doing it's too big of an opportunity for us to not take advantage of.
The next question is from John Zolidis from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> A question on the profitability of the e-commerce and I guess the International segments which I believe are broken out in the Q at least e-commerce is.
And that -- historically that's been several hundred basis points higher on an operating profit basis relative to the rest of the business.
With the rest of the business the store business showing such big improvements has the spread been maintained i.e.
are you seeing improvements in profitability in e-com as well? Or is the store business kind of catching up to it? Well we see profitability improvement in e-commerce because of the ability to lever it.
You got one big facility is the ability to lever.
That said we're investing more in marketing and things because of the opportunity for growth and the opportunity for a lot of leverage.
But they're both growing both international and dot-com are growing because of our ability to lever with the higher sales.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And you want that to ultimately get to 10% of sales the e-com business and...
No.
E-com there's 2 parts to our Direct to Customer.
One Eastbay the other is the banner.
We don't differentiate between the 2 because they're running out of the same operation.
But I would like the banner elements of those to be 10% and Eastbay continue to grow also which by the way it is.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And so ultimately that will be a nice component to the longer-term operating margin expansion? Yes.
The next question is from Michelle Tan from Goldman Sachs.
Obviously you're doing extremely well in the first half and still into August.
But we have seen the data for the sector slowed pretty dramatically and it does sound like your business has decelerated sequentially in August.
So I'm wondering if you could give us any more color on what you're seeing in terms of consumer behavior.
Are you seeing greater volatility around these nonpeak periods? I think Ken you referred to the strength in the back-to-school markets in particular in an earlier question.
So are you seeing anything change in terms of consumer behavior that's driving that slowing? Not in terms of buying -- the launch events that we've had this summer have actually been terrific and so those continue to be a strong force.
And by the way one of the things that gives us some confidence in the fall for the non-basketball is they're not playing basketball in July and the shoes that we launched in July sold out just as fast as when the basketball is going.
It's just kind of the levels drop down and I think the higher comps.
We have very good back-to-school last year and you put the 2 together and that's why I made the comment earlier I think if you look at the stack that probably is something to keep an eye on.
If I were an analyst I'd watch and say "Okay that's fair." But we're seeing -- let's face it in this current environment mid single-digits is pretty darn good and we see that.
For us to step out even more would be I think not prudent.
But we have the capability.
We've got inventory and we've demonstrated it in the first part of this year that if we sell above plan we can still do a good business.
But I would say it's just dampened a little but no real trend changes.
Okay that's helpful.
Yes I know certainly the compare is very difficult and mid single-digit is still very strong.
I just was curious if you were seeing behavioral pattern changes? No.
Believe me Michelle the question is a very good one because we are watching that.
My guys are tired of me asking about that.
We watch that very closely.
Your last question is from Taposh Bari from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I guess 2 questions I had.
One was just on ASPs.
Clearly it's been a driver and contributor to your comp driven by mix and through your promotions.
Just trying to get a sense of where ASPs are kind of in historical context and where do you think they can go over the next several quarters? We haven't said the percentage but they are up.
I think we did say they were up.
And it's a combination of less markdowns and selling more premium shoes and some higher prices on some shoes.
But I would see them continuing to go up in the rest of this year for the same reasons.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on Europe.
Can you just talk about the nature of that product cycle? I know it's different from what we're seeing here in the U.S.
is it really lightweight driven there or is it more of just a kind of classics driven cycle there? It's much more lifestyle yes.
And it varies by country.
Germany has more performance than Italy and Italy is all lifestyle.
They don't workout and Italy.
They don't have to.
They're all beautiful people.
But we see the trend continuing because again when you think about it lifestyle comes from the performance and as the performance continues to innovate that moves into the lifestyle and we've got some new styles.
And our apparel business there happens to be very good and there continue to be new and fresh ideas in apparel.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And final question for Lauren just want to get a sense -- I appreciate your color on kind of your outlook and clearly a lot of uncertainties out there.
I just wanted to get a sense of how flexible you think -- or how much flexibility you think you have on like occupancy and/or SG&amp;A in the event of any kind of macro deterioration or an extended NBA lockout? The occupancy costs are fixed.
So there you have an opportunity to lever on the upside.
The SG&amp;A does have a variable component and were we to be in a place where sales were challenged we do have the ability to flex that element with our decline in sales.
Taposh one of the things that we do also we are seeing is that in some landlords depending on how the malls are doing if the mall is doing well they're not as negotiating as much going forward as we renew leases.
But in malls where there's challenge there are still flexibilities.
So we're -- we continue to have good negotiations.
In an A mall that's 100% leased the rent is not going down.
In some of the other malls which by the way we happen to do very well and I was a mall in Florida this week and there's some vacancies and it's not an A mall but we are doing very well in that mall because it's got our customer in it.
So we're seeing flexibility on things like that.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
I guess my question was more related around kind of an extended deterioration in kind of retail on the retail environment just based on the fact that your -- a very large landlord out there and it seems like in the contracting retail environment with the Internet you guys are driving traffic.
I would imagine that you have a pretty fair amount of leverage there.
We're not landlords.
We're tenants unfortunately or fortunately I guess.
We are seeing -- we've got some leverage and particularly where we got 4 or 5 banners in a mall.
We have some leverage and we're working on that.
It also allows us some flexibility as we change.
We may convert a Lady to a Kid's or Kids' to a Lady depending on what's happening in that market.
Or a Footaction becomes a Champs.
And so we got some of that going on too.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you.
We look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9 A.M.
on November 18 following the release of our third quarter earnings the previous evening.
Thank you and that concludes today's conference.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences the economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received yesterday's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Foot Locker's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
As we highlighted in our press release yesterday afternoon we earned $66 million or $0.43 per share in the third quarter this year up 30% compared to the $0.33 we earned in the same period last year.
Our third quarter comp sales increased 7.4% relative to last year.
These results represent the seventh consecutive quarter of sales and profit increases over the comparable prior-year periods.
Year-to-date we have earned $1.27 per share compared to $0.71 in the first 9 months of 2010 an increase of 79%.
These improved earnings have been driven primarily by our year-to-date comp sales gain of 10.6% and strong margin expansion.
Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will begin our prepared comments with additional details about our third quarter financial results and how we are planning the fourth quarter.
Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will then discuss the success we are having as we implement the key initiatives of our strategic plan.
Ken will also focus on some of the opportunities and challenges we face in the athletic industry as we head into the key holiday shopping season and into 2012.
And as always we will have time to answer your questions after we wrap up our prepared remarks.
Good morning Lauren.
Thank you John and good morning to you all.
As John mentioned we had another excellent quarter earning $0.43 per share versus $0.33 last year a 30% increase.
We produced strong overall sales gains and a robust gross margin gain of 220 basis points during the quarter.
Starting with the top line we achieved a 7.4% comp sales increase continuing the strong sales results that we produced in the first half of the year.
Total sales increased 8.9% when factoring in the impact of foreign currencies and increased 7.3% on a constant currency basis.
We posted that 7.4% comp increase for the quarter on top of an 8.1% gain in the third quarter of 2010.
Therefore on a 2-year stacked basis we have gained 15.5% in Q3 following a stacked 14.3% gain in Q2 and a 17.5% 2-year gain in the first quarter.
In other words although we did not produce another double-digit comp gain in the third quarter our overall sales momentum clearly continues to be quite strong.
In addition on a very positive note our comp gains accelerated by month during the quarter.
As mentioned on our previous call we started the quarter with a mid-single digit comp gain in August.
This was followed by an upper single-digit gain in September and a gain of just below double digit in October.
We have sustained this acceleration into November with comps this month through yesterday up high single digits with solid growth both domestically and in all of our international divisions.
This start to the quarter is an encouraging sign especially given that November represents our toughest monthly comparison of the fourth quarter.
But of course we know the big days of the quarter still lie ahead of us.
That said we continue to plan fourth quarter comp sales in the range of a mid-single-digit increase.
Recall that we posted a strong 7.3% comp store gain in the fourth quarter last year so on a 2-year stacked basis our planned Q4 comp gain will be roughly in line with our results for the first 3 quarters of the year.
Almost all parts of our business continue to perform well in the third quarter leading to the strong overall sales results.
Just as was the case in the first half of the year the strongest sales gains in the third quarter came from our U.S.
businesses.
Sales of our Direct-to-Customer business which are included in our overall comp result once again produced the biggest gains.
The Footlocker.com/Eastbay division led the way moving up over 20% for the third consecutive quarter.
Our storebanner.com sites continue to deliver our strongest comparisons within the Direct-to-Customer segment.
On the other hand ccs.com produced a negative quarterly comp.
Among the store divisions Champs Sports once again topped the chart with a comp store gain well into double digits on top of a similar gain last year.
We believe we have done a very good job connecting with the Champs' customer who knows game.
We activate this connection through strong marketing messages and complete the connection by delivering footwear apparel and accessories with many head-to-toe color hookups exclusive to Champs to create a strong loyalties with our customer.
Foot Locker U.S.
was our second strongest performer in Q3 with a high-single-digit comp store gain followed by Footaction with another solid performance.
Internationally Foot Locker Canada had the best comp sales result coming in with a high-single-digit increase.
Foot Locker Europe and Foot Locker Asia-Pacific both had comp gains in the low single digits.
The only store division to post a negative comp was Lady Foot Locker.
Ken will touch on both our Lady Foot Locker and CCS businesses in his remarks.
All families of business footwear apparel and accessories posted impressive positive comps.
Footwear gained mid-single digits while apparel and accessories continued their run of double-digit gains.
Within footwear Men's and Kids' posted strong gains.
Our Women's business was flat with growth in lightweight and technical running offsetting the decline in Toning sales.
We also drove increases across our major categories of basketball running and casual.
Apparel comp gains in the third quarter were in the teens and in the high teens in the U.S.
just as they were in the second quarter.
All year we have highlighted the acceleration of our apparel business and clearly that trend continued in the third quarter.
Our banner differentiation is progressing across all categories but it is in our apparel assortments where the improvements are most striking.
Our gross margin rate increased by 220 basis points following the 260 basis point improvement in Q2 and the 200 basis point improvement we achieved in Q1.
The gross margin story in the third quarter was unchanged from the first half of the year.
Merchandise margins improved in footwear apparel and accessories adding 130 basis points to gross margin.
And we also effectively leveraged our predominantly fixed buying and occupancy expenses.
This leverage added another 90 basis points to our overall margin rate.
The 130 basis point merchandise margin improvement in the third quarter exceeded the outlook of 60 to 70 basis points we discussed in August.
Our clean fresh inventories have allowed us to keep producing our markdown rates in almost every division.
We continue to work to generate apparel margins that exceed shoe margins.
However our improved merchandise flow especially in the U.S.
is allowing us to continue increasing gross margins in footwear as well.
As a result for the year apparel margins remained below shoe margins for the total company.
The positive news that we called out last quarter is still true.
Margins remain on the upswing in both categories as well as in accessories and we see ongoing opportunities for further improvement.
For the balance of the year though the margin comparisons get increasingly tough so we are planning only a modest total gross margin improvement of about 50 basis points in the fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A expense as a percent to sales increased 60 basis points or almost 12% in dollar terms compared to the third quarter last year.
Of the $33 million increase $5 million was related to currencies and $8 million was due to our enhanced marketing program which we discussed last quarter.
These additional marketing dollars are primarily being spent in the U.S.
both to our store and Direct-to-Customer businesses which not coincidentally is also where we are seeing the sales gains.
We also have significantly higher wage expense of $15 million in the quarter.
Some of this expense was related to the higher sales levels but we also recorded a $7 million adjustment to properly state certain vacation pay accruals related to our European operations which stretch back over several periods.
Absent this onetime adjustment our SG&amp;A expense rate would have been about flat compared to last year's third quarter and only slightly above the outlook we provided in August.
In the fourth quarter we expect SG&amp;A expense to be flat to slightly lower on a rate basis compared to last year.
We will continue to invest in incremental marketing programs especially in the U.S.
to drive customers into our clearly differentiated domestic store format.
There will be other expenses that naturally flex up with sales but we believe that we will effectively control them in order to maintain a solid flow-through of higher sales to the bottom line.
Depreciation expense for the third quarter was $27 million the same figure as in the third quarter last year.
For the full year we expect depreciation to reach about $110 million.
Third quarter interest expense was $1 million below last year's figure of $2 million due to a slight increase in investment income on our cash balances.
Fourth quarter interest expense should be in the same range.
Our third quarter effective income tax rate was 37.3% in line with our annual outlook of a 37% rate.
The bottom line was earnings of $0.43 per share for the quarter bringing our year-to-date EPS total to $1.27 significantly above our previous best 9-month result for continuing operations since we became Foot Locker Inc.
more than 10 years ago.
This very strong result is something all of our associates should be very proud of.
Meanwhile our merchandise inventory continues to improve with turns up and aging at record levels of freshness across almost all divisions.
Merchandise inventory dollars were essentially flat with last year despite an overall sales gain of almost 9%.
Even with the productivity gains that we have achieved so far this year we continue to drive new merchandise flow initiative that we believe will improve merchandise statistics even further in future quarters.
Higher earnings and more productive inventory is of course the right formula for generating strong operating cash flow.
Achieving both our cash and short-term investments increased $157 million from the third quarter of 2010 to $698 million.
We continue to execute the 3 main elements of our capital allocation strategy.
First we remain on track to spend approximately $160 million of capital to maintain enhance and expand our store base add features and functionality to our online and mobile capabilities and strengthen our support functions.
While I'm mentioning our store base let me point out that we have already closed 76 stores this year and expect total closures to be about 100 by year end.
Our original projection at the beginning of the year was that we would close about 55 stores this year.
We have been able to take advantage of additional opportunities to close unproductive stores.
At the same time our new store opening program is up about 10 stores to 70 from our outlook of 60 at the beginning of the year.
We continue to believe that in 2012 we will reach the inflection point where we open as many or more stores as we close.
The second element of our capital allocation strategy is to pay a very meaningful dividend which we positioned ourselves to do at the beginning of the year by increasing it 10% to an annual rate of $0.66 per share.
Our current dividend yield remains one of the most attractive in our industry.
The third element of our strategy is to maintain an active share repurchase program and we elevated the program further in the third quarter by spending approximately $38 million to repurchase 1.9 million shares of our common stock.
The number of shares we have repurchased so far this year stands at 4.6 million at a cost of about $97 million.
We continue to deliver top line strength margin improvements and good flow-through to the bottom line.
While we have a couple of soft spots such as our Women's and skate businesses we continue to focus on implementing the major initiative of our strategic plan across all of our divisions.
We are partnering effectively with our vendors to deliver trend-right products across all categories and families of business and we remain confident in our ability to identify opportunities to further build momentum in our best-performing units as well as our softer businesses.
With that I'll turn the program over to Ken Hicks so he can provide additional details on the strategic elements behind our current success.
Ken? Thank you Lauren and good morning.
I'd like to start off by emphasizing something John mentioned at the start.
The third quarter represents our seventh consecutive quarter of sales and profit increases and the increases have been meaningful.
That sort of consistency and execution is what we strive for every day at Foot Locker not just overall but in every division every region and every element of our business.
It is a difficult thing to pull off for a specialty retailer but developing an effective diversified business is a key step in achieving consistent results.
We are diversified in a number of ways: by product by banner by geography and by distribution channel.
First we strengthened the 4 product pillars of our business: basketball running lifestyle and apparel.
We are very proud of our leadership position in basketball but for anyone who still thinks of us as predominantly a basketball shop they have not been in our stores lately to see the industry-leading assortment of running shoes we offer from innovative vendors such as Nike Adidas Reebok New Balance ASICS Mizuno and Brooks.
They haven't been in to see the tremendous selection of lifestyle and casual shoes we carry from many of the same vendors but also from the likes of PUMA Timberland Nautica and Lacoste.
And they haven't seen the strength of our apparel business which has been supported by key brands such as Nike Adidas and Under Armour but also includes our own private label brands as well as licensed apparel.
I should also mention the strength of our accessory business led by categories such as Nike Elite Socks New Era Snapback Caps and innovative products such as the exclusive Court Grip we launched in Foot Locker during the third quarter.
The second element of our diversification is banner differentiation.
All 4 product pillars are represented in essentially all of our banners but the assortments are increasingly differentiated by banner.
Although there is some overlap many of the basketball shoes we sell in Foot Locker or the House of Hoops are different than the shoes we sell in the basketball category in Footaction or Champs or for that matter in Europe or Australia.
The same can be said for our running shoes our lifestyle shoes our apparel and our accessories.
In other words we've diversified our product offering by banner to serve each banner's target customer much more effectively than we ever have before.
Third we're also diversified by geography.
We have multiple successful businesses in the U.S.
but we're also successful in Canada Australia and New Zealand and all across Europe.
And even within Europe our merchandise assortments are differentiated across countries.
The product assortment in Germany which skews towards the person who's more serious about training is very different than in Italy where customers don't seem to have to work out as much to look good so the assortment there is more fashion-oriented.
And fourth we're diversified by distribution channel.
We have a lot of stores but we also have a big and successful Direct-to-Customer business.
Within the Direct-to-Customer segment we have rapidly growing award-winning store banner in Eastbay Internet and mobile sites.
We're also launching our dot-com sites in several Continental European countries after having been active in the U.K.
for a couple of years.
In other words we can deliver a product to our customers in many different ways based on evolving preferences and technologies.
The 4 components of diversity that I just mentioned together represent a significant competitive advantage for us.
And at this stage in our company's progress it is clear that our customers have reacted favorably to the multiple initiatives we've undertaken.
The marketing spend that Lauren mentioned which is uniquely tailored for each banner is certainly contributing to the broad-based success we've had in recent quarters.
We've been able to drive increased traffic to our stores at a time we know that many retailers are seeing lower traffic.
We're also able to deliver consistent stories to our customers and we support the messages effectively with the right products and displays as well as the right people in our stores and in our call centers.
These enthusiastic associates are better able to provide technical guidance and hookup ideas to our customers leading to improved conversion rates across almost all divisions.
In addition these efforts have led to both higher footwear unit sales and average selling prices across the company as a whole.
That said Lauren also alluded to a few soft spots in our lineup.
First we're conducting a thorough review of the Lady Foot Locker model as well as the overall Women's business.
Lady Foot Locker is not performing as well as our other businesses but we believe there is a place for Lady Foot Locker in the market.
We feel that with this study we're doing we will be in a better position to meet the active female customers' needs and significantly enhance this business's performance.
Second the CCS business slipped back to a negative comp in the third quarter after showing positive signs in the second quarter.
By studying our competitors in the skate business we know the skate customer is still out there but our Kids' seems to be shifting to a more lifestyle look rather than just core skate.
This evolution should play to our strengths.
But in the short term we have more work to do to develop the consistency in the business that we expect of all of our divisions.
We continue to work hard to adjust our merchandising strategies to better serve this customer.
Just last week we reviewed the division's plans for the future and we feel good about the direction CCS is headed.
Both the Women's and Skate businesses offer more upside diversity for our future which is why we continue to work to develop strong operations in these areas.
Before I get to your questions let me address one that I know is on many people's minds the NBA lockout.
To date we've seen little impact on our business due to the NBA lockout.
In fact we are on track to sell more basketball shoes this year in our Foot Locker and Footaction divisions than in any year in our entire history even with the ongoing labor stoppage.
We see a strong basketball product pipeline from our vendors such as Nike and Adidas and solid enthusiasm for basketball silhouettes by our customers.
As a result our basketball business continues to provide solid growth.
Basketball footwear has developed a huge lifestyle appeal which is not dependent on just the NBA today.
First the guys still need the latest basketball shoes to play in for their high school team or on the playground.
They're still going to buy the shoes regardless of what the NBA is doing.
Second guys who are buying the latest launched shoes from Jordan Kobe Lebron Rose and Howard are doing it because of the lifestyle appeal because it's important to who they are.
And finally customers are buying basketball silhouettes because of the strong fashion appeal.
While our business has not been substantially impacted we continue to be disappointed by the lack of a settlement between the owners and the players and a timely settlement could be a plus.
Meanwhile we worked with our key vendors to drive the business in the absence of the NBA games.
For example recently we've had a large number of player appearances in our stores and in other events which have helped generate a lot of buzz around the upcoming product releases.
This helps focus attention on the star athletes themselves who are driving sales.
We're also developing programs to emphasize special games amongst the star players as well as college events from midnight madness to the Final Four.
Price increases are another area of concern that we've been asked a lot about lately especially as we head into 2012.
We've been working carefully with our vendors to make sure price increases can be supported at retail by the customer.
For the most part we believe the strength of the product with new features and great new looks will enable that to happen.
As I've said before it isn't as simple as same prices are going up a specific percent.
Almost all of the shoes next year are different in some meaningful way and that newness is a big part of what is driving the athletic cycle.
So for example some shoes may be priced substantially higher than a predecessor shoe and others may not go up much at all.
In most cases where there are price increases we believe there is a good product innovation and most customers will accept these increases.
Let me wrap up our prepared remarks by saying again how proud I am of the entire team for delivering yet another strong quarter.
We continue to get better each quarter by building on our successes and learning from the mistakes we've made.
Despite the NBA lockout and difficult economies around the globe we believe we can continue to deliver double-digit percentage profit gains in the fourth quarter.
Every day I see our entire 39 000 strong team of associates focusing on those things that are within our control such as buying and allocating the right exciting new product getting it to the stores or directly to the customers' home on time telling great marketing stories and providing great customer service.
As a result we delivered outstanding execution of our strategic initiatives on many fronts and I want to thank everyone for their contributions to another quarter of outstanding financial results.
The external environment remains challenging.
We can't control the economy the weather or whether or not Greece votes for austerity but the athletic cycle shows no sign of weakening as our vendor partners continue to offer innovation in silhouettes technology fabrications and colors and we look forward to working with them towards achieving our vision of being the leading global retailer of athletically inspired shoes and apparel.
Thank you.
Operator let's open up the call now to questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from John Zolidis from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Two questions.
One is on the dot-com business and then one is on the long-term operating margin target.
On dot-com can you just give us a little more color in the U.S.? What percentage of the business is that now? And then did I hear correctly that you're not doing dot-com yet in European countries aside from the U.K.? Is there any reason why Europe couldn't be -- 10% of the business couldn't be dot-com there as well? And then on the longer-term op margin target 2 years ago you gave us an 8% EBIT margin target.
I think absent the giant change in trends in the fourth quarter you're going to hit that this year.
Would you care to comment on the potential for higher target? Okay.
With regard to dot-com total dot-com business runs about 9% of the total business.
That includes our Eastbay business.
We feel that ultimately the banners should approach 10% of each of the banners sales so we have a significant continued opportunity there and we're working towards that.
And as I said they are by far our fastest-growing business for each of the dot-com banner businesses.
We've had a dot-com business in the U.K.
for a couple of years as I said and we've been selling on that.
There are all sorts of technical and legal and different requirements in each of the European countries and we wanted to test it out and see how it worked in the U.K.
but we've now expanded it.
We now have it in France and Germany and we're doing a soft launch actually starting this last week.
And we see that to be a good opportunity across all of Europe as we expand and become a Pan-European dot-com business.
So we think that's a good opportunity.
With regard to the margin targets from your mouth to God's ear on the 8% we do plan to or are in the process I should say of reviewing our strategy and what the new objective should be.
But at this point we have not finalized those but we do plan in the spring season to announce a new strategy and to with that have new targets.
Our next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I guess first with regard to the fourth quarter I guess what kind of assumptions are you making for the NBA? Are you just making the assumption that we don't have a season in terms of your sort of mid-single digit comp outlook? And what are you thinking also about international specifically Europe for your thoughts for fourth quarter as well? Okay.
For the NBA we have and we said this before we have a number of contingencies in place and quite frankly we're planning that as if there was not a season.
We're hoping there is because that would be a plus but right now we've got contingencies in place that we're working on between player appearances and what we're doing with college and launches.
And that goes on regardless of whether there's a season or not.
But we like everybody else love the game and want to see the players on the court as soon as possible.
With regard to international we watch that very closely.
It is a by-country really impact and some countries are more challenging than others.
But so far we continue to have a good business in Europe.
We are managing our inventories very closely make sure that if there are issues we can address them quickly.
But we're following the situation closely but have not seen a significant impact at this time across all of Europe.
It's more by-country issue.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just on Europe can I ask the question this way? As you went through I guess into November your comment about high single digits for the total company is Europe still comping positive? Yes.
In November Europe is still comping positive.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And is there -- just between Southern Europe and Northern Europe like U.K.
versus Germany and France and Italy how are the variations between those countries? Well Greece obviously is a challenge but we only have 3 stores there.
But right now it's comping positive across all of Europe.
And in our big 5 countries we're comping positive.
We continue to comp positive and the big 5 include Italy Germany France U.K.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is just when you guys talk about product flow and merchandising flow on the margin and the job you're doing in the U.S.
doing a great job can you maybe just talk about either -- I know in Europe you've been doing a good job there too.
But where are you in that process as it pertains to shoes either by banner or by geography? I mean how much more of an opportunity realistically just on product flow on shoes do you see? I'll take that one.
The merchandise flow initiative will pay dividends for us over a number of years.
There are some quick hits which we've been able to put in the done column and work for us now.
There are others that will take years to come to fruition completely.
We said that part of our capital investment is investing in infrastructure to support our initiatives.
And some of that helps us in merchandise flow investments that we're making on merchandise planning and allocation systems.
So those systems some of which are in place and others which we're piloting take time to A get in place; B become experts in using.
So therefore it continues to help you over a longer period.
And I think it's early days and we'll see the benefit for some time to come.
Yes Lauren has really been the key player here and she's led this.
And I think one of the things she's talked about internally some of the things she's done but one of the other things that she and the team here have worked with is the vendors.
And they are also changing how they work and we're seeing benefits from that as they learn to better flow the product.
And that again takes time and it will occur over -- we get some benefit on the short term but most of that will take a couple of years to get fully integrated into their processes as well as ours.
Our next question comes from Robby Ohmes from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Ken 2 questions for you and your team there.
One question I was wondering if you guys could help us think through the SG&amp;A spending run rate over the next couple of years.
You had a nice increase in marketing.
It looks like it's working.
But is it something that you think you will keep accelerating into next year? I think it would maybe help us to understand more your thoughts on the SG&amp;A spending outlook.
And the second question is I was hoping you could give us a little more detail on some of the things you have been doing at Lady Foot Locker.
Have you tried anything in any stores that does show signs they're working? Because you mentioned some initiatives that you're hoping to help turn that business so maybe a little more color would be great.
Yes let me start with Lady Foot Locker and then I'll get to the SG&amp;A because I'll have Lauren help me on that.
We are doing a number of things at Lady Foot Locker.
We have a format that we've put in place.
We call it the white format and we've seen that help the productivity.
We also have increased the level of apparel.
We changed the assortment to be more performance-oriented and less lifestyle-oriented and we've seen success with that.
And so those are some of the things that we've done.
But as we study the business we are looking at not just ourselves but the industry and we see there are a number of opportunities for us to better define who we're targeting and then make sure that we have a full program against that.
And as I said we have the largest Women's athletic chain in I guess the world but for sure in the country and over 350 stores.
And we think if we get that right it will be a significant opportunity for growth for us because we know that that customer is from a research we've done is looking for a better place to shop.
With regard to -- and I'll cover a couple of parts of SG&amp;A then let Lauren conclude.
We do plan to continue to market more both our product but also the banners.
And so as we grow and the growth provides opportunity for more marketing we are taking up our marketing.
We had the banner campaign for example the we've got game program for Champs and we've got other marketing plan for the other banners.
We also benefit as we grow with the improved productivity which helps in terms of the productivity of sales per square foot and sales per hour which help on the rent line and quite frankly the selling line.
So the productivity improvement is important to managing that.
Lauren I don't know if you have.
.
.
So Ken mentioned the selling wage productivity and again here it's an area where we're making investments in our infrastructure to further that productivity.
We are investing in a [indiscernible] labor scheduling system which will help us make sure that we have our best associates staffed at our peak selling time and that helps that productivity measurement.
We are very focused as an organization on flow-through to the bottom line and so controlling that SG&amp;A is the key element to that.
We do want to investment more dollars in marketing but we will look for every opportunity to reduce our overhead cost associated -- of overhead cost period.
So that helps the SG&amp;A rate.
So as a team we think about those dollar increases and hold ourselves to standards on what comes through the bottom line and that will lever the SG&amp;A rate accordingly and we really can lever it to low-single-digit comps.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering about the Women's product in the main Foot Locker store [ph].
Did you see any difference in performance of Women's in the main Foot Locker stores [ph] versus the Lady Foot Locker? Yes we have.
We did not have the penetration of Toning in our other banners as we did in Lady.
And therefore actually our Women's business in the Foot Locker stores and for that matter the Footaction stores has been positive and has performed more in line with the overall store.
But we also believe that to some degree that's a bit of a different customer than the Lady Foot Locker customer.
And so we have a somewhat as we talked about difference in banners we have a somewhat different assortment in a Lady Foot Locker than we do in a Foot Locker store.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And in regards to some of your square footage growth I know you were focusing on expanding your square footage mainly in Europe over the next few years.
I wonder just in light of everything going on if there is any kind of change of thinking with that strategy? No we're continuing to expand and this year we will add to the number of stores that we have in Europe and looking at doing that next year.
But the expansion is in new markets.
We've opened a store in the Czech Republic.
We've opened a store in Poland or opening a store in Poland the first of next month.
We look to possibly expansion in countries like Turkey where we're very under-penetrated.
We have one store.
So it's going into new markets and under-penetrated markets.
And in other countries where we may have a stronger position we are looking at really going to places that we're not like malls as these countries expand to put in malls and so we're locating there which has not had a significant impact on our business which has historically been on high streets and freestanding stores.
So we see this the expansion in Europe while obviously the economic situation is challenging we still have an opportunity there.
Our next question comes from Camilo Lyon from Cannacord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Lauren you mentioned in your prepared remarks that the apparel margins were still below those of footwear for the year.
How does that shake out for the quarter? That would be true of the quarter as well.
But we remain very optimistic and convinced that with the initiatives that we've got going that one day we will see apparel margins for total company in excess of footwear.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So it sounds like a lot of the margin improvement that you're realizing is coming from the flow initiatives.
They certainly are helping yes.
One other thing to keep in mind is that when we started this program our apparel margins are above the initial shoe margins.
The thing that's happened is our shoe margins keep going up too.
And so the apparel margins are chasing the rising shoe margins which is a good problem to have.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
It sounds like there's a lot more runway there in that endeavor.
Shifting gears a little bit to your basketball product and your commentary on the NBA.
Have you seen any change in your vendor's strategy with respect to product releases as a result of the increasing potentiality of a truncated season or no season? We have roughly the same number of launches that we had last year.
We've adjusted the timing on a couple of them because there might have been an event or something with a game.
But for the most part we've been reasonably consistent there.
But more importantly I think that we've seen the reaction of the customers just as strong as it has been in the past.
The customer wants the shoes regardless of the player.
And we're working with our vendors as I say between what they're doing with the colleges the athletes and appearances and some of these pickup games that they're playing they're wearing the shoes in those and the real diehard fan is seeing that and desirous of those shoes.
We had a terrific launch with Howard in the summer.
There's no basketball in the summer and that's continued and the Nike shoes are the same way.
Research Division</strong> So it's fair to say then that the most important part of the basketball category is really fresh product the continuation of fresh product coming to market versus NBA games played or not being played? Well no question it's the fresh new product and that's one of the things that's happening with regard to look and weight.
And also I think an important element is the kids really follow the players now a lot more than the teams and those are also important in the mix.
So you put performance.
You put look.
You put the players and you put the events that we got.
Those are helping.
We'd love to have the NBA playing.
We think that would be a plus but so far we're holding up okay.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And my final question relates to your allocation of advertising dollars per banner.
I think you've talked about Champs being the first banner that you're really focused on driving some of that advertising around and you've seen the comp lift in that banner come through pretty nicely.
At what point do you gain some comfort that the category that the banner excuse me has gained enough attention so that you can start to switch some of those advertising dollars to the other banners? It really is the story.
Champs did a great job the team down there in developing the message the we've got game.
And so we put the money behind it as we do that with the other banners we will do it.
That's not to say that we have stepped up the marketing for each of the banners with the programs and the messages behind each but Champs was one that we invested in their messaging and we're looking at doing the same thing with the other banners as we move forward.
And that gives us that ability to have the continuity rather than do it all at once and then you're up against it and you don't have the continuity across the company and the diversity with which we talked about.
Our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a quick question for you.
When you mentioned the gross margin were you talking about the merch margin being up 50 bps or the overall gross margin being up 50 bps for Q4? Overall margin.
Research Division</strong> So I mean does that mean that you're expecting the merch margin to be down in the fourth quarter? Our comparisons in the fourth quarter get tougher.
We will have anniversary-ed now the change in our promotional cadence in all stores events.
And so the fourth quarter won't benefit from that as the other quarters have.
Research Division</strong> Let me just follow up.
The effect of the new distribution allocation systems and the processes that you're putting in place how much of the growth of the gross margin in Q3 -- what was the impact of that? Could you put a percent on that? One more time.
Can I break out the.
.
.
Research Division</strong> Well could you say like what the impact of the changes in the banner in your processes and how that affected the increase in the gross margin? Like could you put -- could you say that was worth 20 bps or 10 bps or nothing or whatever? Yes I can't break it down for you like that.
We were 130 out of merchandise margin.
We were 90 out of lever.
Research Division</strong> But if you run a similar comp in the fourth quarter you should still lever the 90 so I could assume merchandise margins you're thinking are going to be down.
Is that a fair thought? No no.
No because we beat the plan in the third quarter and that was why we were able to lever.
So we think with the plan we get the 50.
And if we beat the plan again yes we should be able to lever and it'll be higher than that.
But we don't plan on beating the plan.
We plan on the plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two more questions.
Number one can you break out traffic ticket conversions and UPTs for us for the quarter? We said the traffic conversion and UPTs were all up and average selling price was up too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly this is not serious but  Amar'e Stoudemire did he get a raise yet from you guys? For those who haven't seen it he did a clip for us and he worked as a striper.
And the funniest line was the manager asked him "Why do you want to be a striper?" And he said "I'm out of work.
I need a job." But he actually was down in our House of Hoops in Florida so he got a promotion.
I got the commercials.
They're really great.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford.
Research Division</strong> Right now we're focused on the NBA and soon enough we're going to be looking at the Olympics and what that might mean for the business.
Over the last months you and others have been talking very positively about what you see coming in the spring and toward the Olympics.
And I'm wondering if you can flesh out some of your forward-thinking go for us? Well the Olympics -- historically the Olympics have been a plus for us not so much for the product because we don't sell a lot of the product but more because of the enthusiasm that gets people behind what's happening.
We have seen hints of the product.
We actually have a couple of meetings set up in the next few weeks with the vendors where we will get the full view of the product.
But the hints look very good.
So we think our vendors are going to step out and make a major play with the Olympics both in terms of Olympic product directly but also just making sure that they've got new innovation as people come in.
We also think we'll benefit in Europe particularly in the U.K.
because of all the traffic and all the people there for the Olympics.
Research Division</strong> Could you perhaps give us a little bit more color on what you see coming through the spring? In terms of -- well we've got a number of new product launches coming from all of the key vendors.
We've got from Nike Adi Reebok.
We've got new product coming from Under Armour in Running.
We've seen in shoes.
We've seen apparel improvements coming.
We've got a good lineup of launches planned and we've got some good promotional activity that we're working on together.
So I feel pretty good about the spring season to date.
Our next question comes from Bob Durbl from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Ken just a couple of -- just a quick question.
On the pricing side of it with these results and with the holiday and as you look into the spring where are we in terms of seeing the price increases from some of your vendors work their way through the supply chain? And your AUR I think you said was up this quarter.
Have you seen any resistance to the price increases that the company has been taking? We have seen some of the price increases for the third quarter.
We're seeing more in the fourth quarter and I think will be complete the first part of next year.
To date we have not seen resistance from the customer because the product is so new and fresh and so the customer can look at it and say this is worth the extra money.
It's not like a bottle of water that you raise the price on and it's the same bottle and the same water.
When you look at the product their innovations and looks that really make them stand out.
And so so far we have not seen the resistance.
That's one of the reasons why I said we're working with the vendors to manage that so that increases aren't excess of 1 and 2 that they're applied properly on a new product versus something that maybe continuity.
The other thing that we've seen obviously is some of the pressures that were on the pricing like cotton and petroleum have mitigated to some degree.
There's still some of the challenges with labor but it's not as much pressure as there was 6 months ago.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you said November's been very strong month-to-date.
As you look to sort of next week Black Friday ahead of that in the weekend are there any things that we should be looking for out of your stores as we go and check them out? Well we've got some tremendous launches and we're going to have a strong program with launches on Black Friday and all through that weekend and through the holidays quite frankly.
We also are going to make sure that we have fresh product on a continual basis and things to bring the traffic in.
And on Black Friday we will have programs that will allow that customer who's looking for a bit more value so we will have some elements in that.
But our focus is really going to be on the launches and the great new shoes that we have.
And the buzz out there on the blogs and websites is pretty strong.
People are pretty excited.
I'm hearing the associates talk about it already and that's a good sign.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick one a little math question for you.
You guys remodeled about 150 stores this year.
Can you give us a number on what the average remodel costs you and what kind of a sales lift you're seeing from those remodels? Well the remodels are dependent upon what the particular store needs.
So when we decide to do one we go in and take an assessment.
It can be as low as $30 000 $50 000.
If it's a case of a full remodel that can be a couple hundred thousand  [indiscernible] total refresh.
But it depends on the need of the store.
But the range is significant anywhere from just a paint job to refixturing or we might move the store in some cases a relocation within the mall which is close to a full new store.
Yes so we have hurdle rates so we're looking for returns of 11% on ROIC 13% on IRR.
And so when we decide to do one of those it's because we believe we're going to see a sales lift that supports that.
We do in fact track the project.
We track the projects and report it to the board...
Regularly.
The current tracking and you got to look backwards.
So it's not the ones that we just remodeled this year but the ones that we remodeled made the -- on average made or exceeded our hurdle rates.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I think this was asked a little bit earlier.
I'm going to ask it maybe a little different way.
Ken you kind of took some ambitious language about how you're going to fix up some of the banners that were falling behind when you stepped in a few years ago and Lady Foot Locker is the only one that seems to not be -- you haven't really cracked the code on yet.
What do you think has gone wrong versus the initial strategy you took which has worked so well across other banners at Lady Foot Locker? What do you think you misunderstood when you first got to the company that you're now realizing? I think the challenge was that we in the past 4 years have changed the Lady Foot Locker customer at least 3x.
And so the problem was that we were trying to figure out who we were.
And so this project is really to say help us identify who we're going to be where that white space is and properly position Lady and then be able to market and bring that customer in and have the product so she's not disappointed.
One year it's young women and they come in and it's fashion apparel.
And the next year it's all about performance.
And the next year there's not apparel and the next year there is apparel.
There's no question that the customer is going to be confused and we're going to not be able to satisfy them because my expression is when you fire a customer they know instantaneously.
When you hire a customer it takes a while before they know they need to come in.
And we just have not have been moving around too much and the strength that we got right now is for each of the banners we know exactly who we are and what we want to be.
Lady we're still defining that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last question.
We've published a lot on this and we spent a lot of time talking to your investors about it.
But really just trying to understand the NBA thing you and your peers have all come out at this point and had fairly constructive comments that they don't think there'll be a material impact.
If I look ahead past right now I guess to like the spring season or February when there was an All-Star game last year and I think back to all the wonderful Adidas commercials for the new shoes they had out that were a blast over primetime airwaves with those shoes being launched that the marginal customers saw it there and that might have driven them to the store.
As you enter February this year and the potential of having no All-Star game and nothing on TV to watch no slam dunk contest help me get comfortable with periods like that that are important basketball periods for you.
Like you said yourself we think we can manage our way through it with such a big vacuum of media on television at night.
There's no question that that's a challenge and we were going to have a challenge moving from LA to Orlando anyway.
But the thing is it's not just the NBA.
It's all of the other elements.
And so if we've got a challenge with the NBA what we're looking at is we devote those resources to basketball shoes that may not be as dependent on the NBA or that game.
Other elements like running lifestyle and apparel.
So what happens is -- we're like you.
We move money around to where we think we're going to get the best investment.
So while basketball may not be benefiting us as much as we'd like and I think the challenges -- if they went to start playing tomorrow and I hope they do or I would wish they would we would benefit it to the upside.
But it's how we invest and where we invest to move that money from one place where it's not going to get us be as productive to another place.
And so you're going to see us continue to drive basketball with the players with the performance basketball and we're going to continue to drive running.
We're going to continue to drive apparel and we're going to strengthen our position in lifestyle.
That's how we alter.
It's not that we won't -- it won't have an impact.
And if it were there it's what we do to offset that impact.
Our next question comes from Michelle Tan from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just expand a little bit.
I think Bob asked about the price increases that you're going to start to see more significantly in 2012.
Is there a time we can look back to where you've seen -- where you last saw kind of across-the-board price increases from the vendors? And maybe give us a sense of how that played out.
Is it possible that we actually start to see total revenue growth acceleration as AUR layers on or does the consumer really more buy dollars than units? I can't speak to this business as much as I can other businesses and experience.
Although in talking to the vendors they have said the history shows that there is a short adjustment period for them as they work through the contracts.
But overall if they provide the new product the customer buys -- is more buying the unit than the dollars.
So they will pay $5 $10 more for a shoe in some cases than they would have in the past.
So I think your question which was a little leading is on the right point that they will -- this is actually an opportunity for sales growth as much as anything.
And your next question comes from Taposh Bari from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a couple quick questions.
I guess the first I appreciate all the commentary you've just given so far on November and the impact on the NBA situation.
I guess I just wanted some more clarity.
If you're willing to comment on your Jordan versus your non-Jordan business in the basketball category any kind of color you can give on that so far in November would be helpful.
Our Jordan business is continuing to perform well and in line with the other basketball and that speaks to the importance of athlete and the product as much as the game.
He hasn't played in a while.
I think that's correct and his shoes are still selling well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the second question that I had was just on the ASP.
I don't know if you actually quantified what ASP did last quarter if you can do that.
And also how are you planning that into the fourth quarter vis-à-vis your mid-single-digit comp guidance? We didn't call it up specifically but ASPs are up about 2% in Q3.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how are you planning them for the fourth quarter? They're about the same.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question I had was you have a decent amount of business in some of these more macro-challenged geographies.
I think you addressed Europe but I wanted to ask specifically about Canada.
High-single-digit comp is extremely encouraging despite some of the commentary we're hearing out of some of the other U.S.-based retailers operating there.
So can you just talk about the geography what you're seeing there specifically? Well I think again we have really stepped up our game there.
We've increased the level of performance while maintaining a strong lifestyle position.
We've continued to grow the apparel part of the business there.
So it's really adding to the strength which was more lifestyle with more apparel and more performance.
We also I think are doing a much better job up there executing across the country and making sure we define the difference between what happens in the Prairie provinces what happens on the West Coast and what happens in Québec and Toronto.
Each of those are different markets and the team is doing a much better job identifying and defining those so that we're able to best serve those customers.
So our differentiation isn't just at the banner level it's down to the market level and really to the store level and that's where some of these systems and things that Lauren talked about will be long-term benefits to us as we localize the assortments for our different stores and markets.
Thank you everyone.
That's all we have time for today.
We look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9:00 on March 2 2012 following the release of our fourth quarter and full year earnings the previous evening.
Until then happy Thanksgiving and have a happy kick-mas.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen  and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received yesterday's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to Foot Locker's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
The fourth quarter results we reported yesterday afternoon include net income of $81 million or $0.53 per share on a GAAP basis.
This represents an increase of 47% over the $0.36 per share we earned in the fourth quarter of 2010.
It also represents our eighth consecutive quarter of sales and profit increases over the comparable prior year period.
Our fourth quarter results include net noncash charges of $0.02 per share in 2011 and $0.03 a share in 2010 both primarily related to non-amortizing intangible assets of our CCS business.
We have excluded these charges in a non-GAAP comparison that was included in yesterday's press release.
And during the course of the call we intend to refer primarily to the non-GAAP results.
On this non-GAAP basis we earned $0.55 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $0.39 per share a year ago an increase of 41%.
On a GAAP basis for the full year we earned a record $278 million equivalent to $1.80 per share an increase of 68% over last year's earnings of $1.07 per share.
On a non-GAAP basis we earned $1.82 per share 65% higher than 2010.
Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will start off our prepared remarks this morning with additional details about our fourth quarter financial results.
Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will then discuss various aspects of the success we are having as we implement the key initiatives of our strategic plan.
Before we get to your questions at the end we will provide some initial perspectives on the outlook for 2012.
However keep in mind that we are hosting an investor meeting at our New York offices on Tuesday at 9:00 a.m.
During that meeting which will also be webcast we will provide an update to our long-range strategies and financial goals.
So we ask that you please focus your question today primarily on our 2011 results for the near-term outlook.
With that let me now turn the program over to Lauren Peters.
Thank you John and good morning to you all.
We did indeed have another strong results in the fourth quarter posting non-GAAP earnings of $0.55 per share.
This result brought our non-GAAP full year earnings to $1.82 per share a record for athletics business and one which all our associates can be very proud of.
To review how we achieved these results let's start as usual with sales.
We achieved a 7.5% comparable sales increase in the fourth quarter on top of our 7.3% comp increase in Q4 2010.
The 14.8% 2 years stack increase was similar to the mid-teens stacked comp we posted through the third quarter this year.
For the full year we posted a strong 9.8% comparable sales increase.
Total sales for the full year which were helped by stronger foreign currencies but reduced by net store closures were up 11.4%.
Almost all of our divisions recorded comp sales increases in the fourth quarter.
Our Direct-to-Customers segment led the way with a 16% gain.
Excluding ccs.com which was the only division with a comp loss the rest of the segments which includes Eastbay and our store banner dot-com sites was up more than 20% a level achieved in all 4 quarters of the year.
Among the store divisions Champs Sports delivered a very strong year with a Q4 comp gain in the mid-teens successfully comping against a similarly strong gain last year.
Foot Locker in the U.S.
was up high single digits as were Foot Locker Canada and Foot Locker Asia-Pacific.
Total sales in Foot Locker Europe were up mid single digits in the fourth quarter although the comp gain was only slightly positive.
European consumers especially our target young customers continued to be challenged by slow or negative economic growth and high unemployment.
The quarter played out with the strongest comp gain in December but each of the months in the quarter delivered at least strong mid single digit growth.
All families of business had solid comp gains with apparel and accessories once again achieving double-digit gains.
Within footwear Men's and Kids posted high single digit gains while our Women's business was flat.
In Men's we produced healthy increases across our major categories of basketball running and casual.
Even our boot business posted a gain overall despite warmer-than-average temperatures in many of our markets.
Apparel comp gains in the fourth quarter were in the low double digits.
We have found success in utilizing our apparel presentations to highlight the banner differentiation we have worked hard to execute.
By improving the apparel assortments and in-store displays we find that we can sell both more apparel and more shoes.
Almost all the brands have done a good job improving the hookup of their shoes and apparel with an excellent example of being the Adicolor program from Adidas and Champs.
Our gross margin rate increased by 110 basis points on the fourth quarter off the pace from the first 3 quarters of the year but solid nonetheless given the improvements from last year that we have begun to anniversary.
Most of the gain 100 basis points was due to the leveraging of our predominantly fixed buying and occupancy expenses.
10 basis points of the gross margin expansion was due to merchandise margin improvement.
Across our divisions our merchandise margin performance ran in a fairly tight range with small gains and declines by banner family of business and region.
Overall we made more progress in footwear and accessory margins than apparel margins.
One call-out in apparel is the branded apparel outperformed which should be our higher-margin private label business.
While this dynamic helps top line sales it holds back apparel margins.
As a result while margins rose overall we did not close the gap between footwear and apparel margins during the quarter.
We will continue to work on opportunities for incremental margin improvements in both categories.
SG&amp;A expense improved 20 basis points in the fourth quarter from 21.8% of sales to 21.6%.
On a dollar basis SG&amp;A expense increased $22 million including $7 million for our elevated marketing program which we believe have been successful in bringing the right customers into our stores and onto our website.
The remainder of the increase was primarily a function of variable expenses such as store wages and supplies that flexed up with higher sales.
We recorded an after-tax charge of $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 to write down the value of intangible assets acquired as part of our investment in the CCS business in 2008.
We incurred a similar $6 million charge also related to CCS in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The charge in 2010 was partially offset by the recovery of a portion of the short-term investment that had been written down in 2008.
As of year end approximately $10 million of non-amortizing intangible assets related to CCS remain on our books.
Depreciation expense for the fourth quarter was $28 million up $1 million from the same quarter last year.
For the full year depreciation was $110 million up from $106 million last year reflecting the strategic long-term investments we are making in many parts of our business.
As we have mentioned throughout the year these investments include opening new stores in Europe maintaining and remodeling our existing fleet of stores enhancing our digital capabilities and developing various systems to make us more operationally efficient.
Our fourth quarter effective income tax rate came in somewhat lower than expected at 34% bringing our full year rate down to 36% better than our previously estimated annual tax rate of 37%.
The improvement was primarily attributable to one-time tax audit settlements and true-up adjustment.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks the sum of all this was non-GAAP earnings of $0.55 per share for the quarter and $1.82 for the full year.
Looking at some of our long-term financial goals we came close on several key P&amp;L objectives.
On our path to achieving sales of $6 billion we delivered a strong 9.8% comp gain for the year to reach sales of $5.6 billion up from $4.8 billion when we established those goals 2 years ago.
We ended the year with 3 369 stores down 57 from the beginning of the year.
Almost 2/3 of the 70 new stores we opened this year were in international markets while the majority of the 127 stores we closed were in the U.S.
Of course the benefit of eliminating unproductive stores is that it enabled us to make further progress on other financial metrics.
For example we achieved an EBIT margin of 7.9% our best ever and just short of our long-term objective of 8%.
In addition we delivered a net income margin equal to our long-term goal of 5%.
From a balance sheet perspective we significantly elevated the productivity of our largest and most important asset our inventory.
Merchandise inventory dollars were up less than 1% at year end even with the consistently strong sales gains we produced throughout the year.
Inventory turns are improving and we ended 2011 with inventory aging at record levels of freshness across the company.
We continue to position ourselves well to respond to the strong demand we see in the marketplace for athletics footwear and apparel and see no near-term risk of inventory becoming too lean.
In fact within the year-end inventory figure were some receipts we brought in early specifically to help drive February sales results which I am pleased to report comped up in the mid-teens on top of last year's strong 11.6% comp gain in February.
We ended the year with $851 million of cash and short-term investments an increase of $155 million from the end of last year.
This increase was achieved even though we accelerated both our investment in the business and our initiative to return cash to our shareholders.
We spent $152 million in capital in 2011 slightly below the plan of $160 million that we set at the beginning of the year.
The shortfall is mainly the result of timing in the completion of certain projects most of which will be completed in early 2012.
Over the past 2 years we have significantly improved the return on the capital we are investing in our business having hit an ROIC total of 11.8% in 2011 up from just 5.3% in 2009 and above our 5-year plan target of 10%.
The combination of all the productivity initiatives that we have undertaken and discussed with you throughout 2011 has reduced our investment base at the same time that we have significantly elevated the return part of the ROIC equation.
As a result we are earning in excess of our 9% estimated cost of capital.
In terms of returning cash to shareholders we paid $101 million in dividends in 2011 having increased our annual dividend rate by $0.06 or 10% at the beginning of the year.
Last month we announced an additional 9% increase on our quarterly dividend to $0.18 per quarter.
At the same time we also announced a new $400 million share repurchase program replacing the prior $250 million program.
We have spent approximately $153 million repurchasing shares under the prior program including $104 million in 2011 which brought in 4.9 million shares.
Clearly our liquidity position allows us the flexibility to continue executing these 3 main elements of our capital allocation strategy: direct investments in our business; dividends; and share repurchases.
With that summary let me turn over the call to Ken who will provide additional perspective on our accomplishments in Q4 and 2011.
Thank you Lauren and good morning.
Let me also thank everyone for participating on the call this morning.
In the fourth quarter we posted our eighth consecutive quarter of meaningful sales and profit increases a record of consistency which our entire team of associates is very proud of and more importantly focused on continuing.
We started 2 years ago by creating a vision to be the leading global retailer of athletically inspired footwear and apparel.
We developed a set of 6 clear strategies as well as detailed initiatives for accomplishing each strategy and we established some key financial goals to help us measure our success.
But we went beyond that.
To harness the power of the entire organization we knew we couldn't confine our work to a presentation given once and then kept on the shelf to gather dust or reported on to the board once a year.
Instead we continually communicated our vision strategy and goals to every associate in the company in every store distribution center and staff location.
The strategies were made clear and straightforward so that each person could see how what they do fits into the big picture.
As a result we've begun to see the true strength of the Foot Locker team when we all pulled together for the same goals.
A year ago I characterized our 2010 results as being an inflection point in creating sustainable increased value for our shareholders.
I now believe 2010 was a springboard toward the higher level of performance we achieved in 2011.
The strategies our team identified and began implementing 2 years ago have elevated our financial and operational performance to new heights.
First we have defined and differentiated our banners by broadening our product assortments.
We continue to be the leading destination for basketball a category that is growing in terms of both its performance and lifestyle appeal.
Marquee basketball was highlighted in the quarter by the Jordan Concord launch just before Christmas.
The basketball has grown into a year-round business on the strength of several key active star players most of whom such as LeBron Kobe Rose KD Howard and Chris Paul are all playing quite well this season.
During the same time that we solidified our position in basketball we also built a more powerful running selection.
While we've always been a strong player in running our efforts have made us a much stronger more significant player in this category.
During the quarter we had especially good results from the Max Air programs from Nike as well as their Lightweight Free and Lunar lines.
Our core vendors including Nike Adidas and Reebok are doing well.
In addition our performance running vendors such as New Balance ASICS Brooks and Saucony are also bringing excitement to the running category.
We've also grown our offering of casual footwear.
We had standout performances from Jordan Classics Converse and Adi classics such as the Samoa.
Retro style such as the Griffey Nomo and others are also doing well.
We have just begun our efforts to tell exciting and effective marketing stories that bring customers to our banners.
For example Foot Locker's position this past month of February is the hottest month ever.
And as Lauren mentioned we had double-digit sales gains on top of the double-digit gains we produced last February.
Second we've begun building our apparel assortments to be much stronger and we've achieved year-over-year apparel growth in the teens including this quarter.
We've had particular success again as Lauren mentioned partnering with the key brands to deliver improved branded apparel assortments tailored to appeal to the target customers of each of our banners and each of our store locations.
We've also taken meaningful steps to elevate our private label apparel and had some success such as with our Actra Women's brand and Champs Sports gear but we're still learning and developing this business and we have opportunities to improve in many areas.
Third we continue to make our stores and digital sites more exciting places to shop and buy.
In many of our stores we've realigned the presentation of product along the shoe walls and on the floor in order to increase productivity.
And we've integrated our apparel assortments with a footwear in order to tell compelling functionality and color stories.
We're testing an exciting new store format in Champs and we're designing a new format for Foot Locker in the United States.
We also opened our first Locker Room store in Brent Cross outside London in the fourth quarter.
The store is not far from some of the venues for the upcoming summer Olympic Games in the U.K.
The Locker Room is focused on performance product rather than fashion and we're excited about these prospects.
In the digital world we've upgraded the features and functionality of our Internet mobile sites significantly improving the cross channel experience.
Our customers are increasingly comfortable switching back and forth between our stores and online in their relationship with us.
And we continue to innovate in order to deepen our connection with them.
These innovations have been recognized by others.
For example our Eastbay site has been recognized by Internet Retailer magazine as the best mobile optimized site of the top 100 internet retailers.
And the Sneakerpedia website that we launched last year won the Gold Lions Award in the Cyber category at the 2011 Cannes of Festival Creativity.
Just last week we relaunched our ccs.com website and continue to take steps to strengthen that brand with a strong board lifestyle approach.
Fourth we said we would aggressively pursue growth opportunities and we have.
We have driven strong double-digit growth in our store banner dot-com sales all year including the fourth quarter.
Our total Direct-to-Customers segment posted sales that were about 11% of total sales in the fourth quarter a new high.
We had over 64 million visitors to our websites in the quarter and we have millions of fans on our Facebook and Twitter sites.
Backing out Eastbay from the Direct-to-Customer total suggests that we still have plenty of opportunity to increase the penetration of our online business.
We also accelerated our new store openings in Europe including entering our 23rd country Poland in December.
Our House of Hoops shops have also been quite successful and we now operate more than 50 of these stores including several in key international markets.
Fifth our productivity metrics have improved across the board.
Lauren mentioned some of them.
But in addition we achieved sales of $406 per gross square foot ahead of our $400 long-term objective.
We also saw improvements in such measures as customer conversion sales per payroll hour and profit flow-through.
Through a combination of improved in-store results and closing underperforming stores we significantly improved the productivity of our fleet.
Sixth and finally we built on our industry-leading retail team.
One of the things I'm especially proud of is how seamlessly we executed the major leadership changes announced during the summer of 2011 to better position us for the future.
We have a deep management lineup.
Nonetheless we have upgraded key talent management processes such as executive development and succession planning in both field and our headquarter's organizations.
We've revamped associate selling skills training focused on meeting our customer needs and above all we've developed communicated and reinforced our company's core values.
That in a nutshell is what we did over the last couple of years.
We posted very strong financial results in 2011 which was the best year in our company's history as Foot Locker Inc.
But I realize that what you want to know about what's really important to you is the future.
As John mentioned and I'm sure most of you know we're hosting an investor meeting and webcast this coming Tuesday at 9:00 a.m.
to discuss our new goals for the future and the evolution of the strategies that we will execute to achieve these goals.
I'm not going to scoop that meeting but before we get to your questions I'd like to let Lauren discuss some of our early thoughts on 2012.
Thanks Ken.
Let me start by saying that one of our key goals for 2012 was to produce double-digit percentage profit growth for the full year and for each individual quarter compared to 2011.
The goal is not dependent on the fact that 2012 includes a 53rd week which should add about $0.10 per share to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
We've had a very strong sales run over the past 2 years.
So looking ahead we are planning 2012 comp gains in the mid single digit range.
We have planned for all of our divisions to be comp positive for the year.
The only division that is significantly off that mark right now is Foot Locker Europe which has gotten off to a difficult start in the quarter.
Comps in Europe are running down high single digits but we believe some of these results is due to exceptionally cold and snowy weather in Europe recently which led to numerous store closures.
We remain optimistic for the current year with new product expanded assortments that are selling well and major sporting events taking place in Europe all likely to support our business.
We are also confident about the long-term prospects of our profitable European business.
We are planning for a 30 to 40 basis point gross margin gain in 2012 based on a 52-week year.
We expect to continue to leverage our fixed costs.
However incremental merchandise margin gains will take time given the tremendous strides we have already made over the past 2 years and the less than robust economic conditions we faced especially in our biggest markets the U.S.
and Europe.
Fortunately the lean inventory position that I mentioned earlier enables us to maintain the flow of exciting new products from a wide variety of vendors including Nike Adidas Reebok Converse ASICS Under Armour New Balance and several others.
We intend to build on a solid foundation of improvements we have made in merchandise flow which should keep markdown rates low and margins up.
As always we will control our expenses carefully SG&amp;A expense as a percent of sales improving 60 to 80 basis points but we are not planning to scrimp on telling our brand stories or investing in our business.
Our capital program in 2012 is planned to be about $160 million.
We plan to open 82 new stores and close 75 stores in 2012 which would be the first time in many years that we open more stores than we close.
We expect depreciation to be about the same level in 2012 as it was in 2011 around $110 million depending on exchange rates.
Finally our 2012 tax rate is planned at 37%.
With that outlook I'll turn the call back to Ken.
Thanks Lauren.
To add some color to the numbers that Lauren just gave you let me say that we're excited about the way 2012 is shaping up.
As mentioned February was a hot month getting us off to a fast start with a lot of really strong basketball releases from Nike Jordan and Adidas.
Meanwhile the basketball business -- the base basketball business is also doing very well.
Our technical and performance running businesses including lightweight are strong as is the casual business.
We see a lot of exciting innovations still to come in all of these footwear categories in terms of fabrications colorways silhouettes and treatments.
As we noted our apparel business is getting better in almost all of our divisions and we intend to apply the lessons we're learning in order to maintain this momentum.
Our accessories business is also solid with a strong demand for Nike Elite Socks Snapback hats from New Era and other key performance and lifestyle products.
Before I get to your questions let me wrap up our prepared remarks by once again acknowledging the tremendous effort and teamwork of all of our associates during 2011.
As a result of their hard work we approached or surpassed many of the peak financial and operating metrics the company has ever achieved at Foot Locker.
While we salute a very good performance in 2011 a win if you will one of the key strengths of our team is its clear focus on the future and wanting to win consistently.
We see opportunities for improvement in many areas of our business and we recognize that some other retailers have even better metrics than we do in certain areas.
We want to seize our opportunities win again and become a true champion.
Thank you.
Operator let's open the call now for questions if you will.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from John Zolidis from Buckingham Research.
A couple of questions.
One could you give us the cash flow metrics both operating cash flow and free cash flow for the year? And then in that context could you discuss why the share repurchase hasn't been more aggressive? And then the second question is on just the merchandise margins and the private label apparel business and can -- maybe a little flesh out a little bit more whether you still see 100 bps or -- of opportunity there over the long term.
I'll let Lauren talk about the cash flow for 2011.
Do you have it? John is going take the cash flow over '11.
Okay.
while we're pulling up some numbers on the stock buyback we constantly evaluate what is appropriate -- the appropriate level and we make those decisions on an ongoing basis.
And we decided what we bought in the fourth quarter was the appropriate amount.
And we will continue to make those evaluations as we go forward based upon what we think is appropriate.
And so the free cash flow total in 2011 was around $338 million.
And you also asked John about the operating cash flow did you? Yes if you have it.
Yes it's about $490-ish.
The merchandise margin opportunity is going forward.
Obviously between 2010 and 2011 we made a number of promotional changes that were positive on the merchandise margins.
And most of those events are out of the system.
And we see continued merchandise margin opportunities as we go forward that are coming from working with our vendors on product on better sell-throughs and doing a better job in planning and allocating product.
And one of the things that we're doing now is looking at what we can do to improve the allocations and planning systems that we have.
And that's something that is -- we talk about our future strategy that we'll be working on.
Lauren I don't know if you have any -- and then the other thing is obviously leverage based upon on our sales.
Yes that clearly delivers a lot.
By the way I have an exact number for the operating cash flow for 2011.
It's at $497 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Robby Ohmes from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is a actually Rafe Jadrosich on behalf of Bobby.
Just in terms of your comp guidance for next year can you just give a breakout of your assumptions for ASP versus unit? We see both growing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then have you seen any resistance to price increases so far through I guess the first half of this year? Not -- the customer continues to buy the shoes and where we've taken price increases.
And obviously we've seen more as each months goes by.
The customer has responded favorably as indicated by our February results.
Research Division</strong> And the last question can you just give a little more color about what's driving the strength at Champs? I mean and do you see a bigger opportunity with the NFL license switching over to Nike in April? Or would you be adding more NFL licensed apparel? With Champs Champs has obviously been a strong division for us and they are the one that's probably furthest ahead on a number of our initiatives including the growth of apparel presentation and new formats in the stores.
So that's one of the things that makes us optimistic about our growth as we learn from them and apply some of those measures in the other divisions.
We think that Nike will reinvigorate the NFL franchise.
And we've seen the merchandise.
It looks very very good and very exciting.
And we are very proud to be a partner with them as they launch the product and we feel that we'll be a major player with them.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned on the last call Ken that there's still a lot of room for productivity improvement and inventory despite the negative delta between inventory and sales growth.
I think you indicated that again today.
Can you give us some more detail on what you expect over the next few quarters with inventory trends? And how much more room do you have to go in reaching your productivity goal? Well as we've said we are working to get our overall turnup over 3% and we've moved now basically from 2% to 2.5% this year.
And we see the opportunity to do that in working with our vendors in doing a better job in flowing the merchandise -- Lauren has been a leader in that effort and in making sure that we have the right systems and tools.
And we're doing that as we implement business intelligence systems and look at new planning and allocation systems.
We see the opportunity as we increase our dot-com business and it becomes a bigger proportion of our business that obviously provides turn opportunity there and as we continue to grow our apparel business because apparel has a faster turn now for us than shoes do.
So there are still a number of things that will allow us to be more productive with our inventory without hurting sales.
In fact it should help sales as we get more of the right goods in the right store at the right time with the right size and the right quantity.
We're able to reduce the lead time.
I mean the time from placing the order to selling it to a customer.
We're getting closer to demand.
That will help.
So the improved turns will help sales and help productivity.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question is on investment in your online business in 2012.
Will we see more SG&amp;A dollars and/or CapEx dollars go to enhancing your online platform this year? Yes I think you'll continue to see us develop that business more.
We've done -- made some significant changes to our online sites and we continue to work to make them more exciting more interactive with the customer more connected to the stores.
And so as I've said we've gotten some recognition but the real recognition is coming from the customers.
They shop more online and connected more with what we do both online and in the stores.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter Ken you mentioned the white format at Lady Foot Locker.
Could you just give us an update on that test? And also with the new Champs prototype and you mentioned also one for Foot Locker when can we look forward to these remodels potentially being rolled out? Well we'll talk more about them on Tuesday but -- the white format at Women's -- or at Lady Foot Locker was good but we think that we probably need to take it beyond that.
And we're looking at exactly what that is.
We've done some pretty extensive research over the last few months and we'll be talking more about that on Tuesday.
But let it be said that we are going to make a major effort in Women's and it will involve how the stores look and what they are.
With regard to Champs we've been very pleased with the prototype and we've done exactly what you do with a prototype.
You work the bugs out and we plan to put up about 1 dozen -- or I'm sorry about 10 more test stores this spring.
And so we'll get an evaluation see how they work and make a financial determination on how fast we should roll out that effort.
We are putting in place a couple of prototypes for the Foot Locker store later this spring.
And once we've worked the bugs out of them we'll do the same thing and test and then determine how and what to roll out.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for that color.
And just one other.
In terms of fourth quarter merchandise margins could you just comment on what was the impact from I would believe softer sales from cold weather items like fleeces and boots et cetera? Actually we don't sell a lot of outerwear.
And as I think Lauren said our boot business while not quite as robust as we would have liked was still positive.
Positive.
Yes.
So we did okay in boots.
We don't have a lot of outerwear in the U.S.
We do in Canada and -- but the fleece actually worked very very well because it was great fleece weather.
So it helped our apparel business in keeping it in the double digits.
And we didn't have -- we had some things that we had to clear but overall it was not a big issue.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> With regard to your extra effort at marketing in the fourth quarter clearly it's paid off.
But could you give us a little bit clearer idea of how the marketing was spent? You mentioned concentration on digital.
And what can we look forward in this new year with respect to the marketing effort and the amount being employed? We had a multi-pronged approach as we look at our marketing both in terms of developing more digital and things that were online so digital related.
It may be an email.
It maybe a Flash ad.
It maybe just doing something on Facebook or Twitter but we had an effort there.
But we also stepped up our television marketing and having that more directed to building the brand than just talking about an item.
We continue to see the opportunity to build the brand banners.
We had specific ads for both Champs and Foot Locker that focus on the brands and we will continue to do that.
And then we also spend the marketing on events.
We had a number of appearances and we'll continue to have those appearances with the star athletes and with different things.
We had the series we ran with Amare both working as a striper and then when he came in and resigned and both of those were tremendously successful.
Looking forward we plan to continue the marketing that we have and we'll continue to invest in marketing and having it grow as we grow our sales.
The marketing rate will remain about the same.
But as sales grow we'll grow the amount that we spend.
We also continue to have the key sponsorships that we've had in the past and look forward to continuing those.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that direct was 11% of fourth quarter sales.
What did it amount to for the full year? 9%.
9% for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much was that up for the full year? I'm sorry.
In terms of percent? Research Division</strong> Yes total direct.
For the full year we're up in the 20% range.
Over 20%.
Total direct including CCS was up 16% in the quarter.
Including CCS.
But without CCS that's over 20%.
That's right.
Our next question comes from Michelle Tan from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us a little more color on kind of the push the puts and takes in your gross margin outlook for 2012.
First I guess is FX a factor at all? Do you buy for Europe in dollars? Or do you buy for Europe in euros? Predominantly in euros.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess looking at the 40 basis point guidance and mid single digit comps I would have thought you would have maybe gotten closer to 60 basis points plus of buying an occupancy leverage.
So is there something changing a little bit with how the degree to which you can leverage buying occupancy in your comps? Or is there a little bit of give back on merchandise margin? How are you guys thinking about that? Well again we're -- the guidance was 30 to 40 basis points on a mid single digit comp and we do lever as you've seen.
When we can beat on the top line we can lever the fixed cost.
But as we talked about all last year there were increases on the cost side that we expected to see in the spring and we are.
So that does put pressure.
But we still think that with the flow opportunities we have described and apparel opportunities we will be able to make improvements.
They'll be smaller in merchandise margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly on Europe I'm not sure if you have visibility on this or not but do you have any sense of whether what you've seen in the market to your point on snowstorms and whatnot is kind of representative of what broader retail has seen in Europe? Or are you concerned at all that there's anything in terms of product reception or product cycle trends that are playing a role? Well we've seen some good selling on the new product that we brought in pretty much across Europe.
There has been a slowdown.
There's no question that Europe's not as robust as it has been but it was a little more difficult to read in February and January because they did have -- I mean we literally had -- at points in time we might have 100 stores closed because of a storm.
But while there has been a slowdown we continue to be optimistic.
But first of all it's a profitable business for us.
But as we look forward we've got the new product that's selling well.
We've got some extensions in some of the businesses that we're doing.
And there are some major events this year in Europe that should help drive the business when you look at things like the Euro Cup and the Olympics.
Our next question comes from Camilo Lyon from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> This is Vinnie Esposito on for Camilo.
First can we start with the apparel margins and the business there? What are you thinking as far as the mix of private label as we head forward into 2012 and then beyond? Do you plan on keeping that mix consistent? We grow what sells.
And so we don't set a standard of what a private label or what a branded should be.
But what's happened right now is the -- we've had stronger branded merchandise and it has sold better so we've grown that faster.
I just had a product review I guess on day before yesterday looking at the private label going forward and it looks very strong.
And I think we will get stronger sales out of that.
And the other thing about our private label apparel is we're able probably to respond faster than we can in branded because we just -- we have shorter lead line on some of the elements of it.
So I think that we will see private label grow.
We don't set a percentage but I think it will grow.
The question is will it grow as fast as what we grow in the branded business? The customer will help determine that for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And onto Europe and how you're managing the profitably there given the challenges are you reducing any expenses? What's kind of the puts and takes there? We look to flex right? So we have the ability to flex on the downside as well as when sales are running ahead flex on the upside.
So you control the controllables in that environment.
You control your selling wages and control the overhead.
You look for opportunities to reduce.
Our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just missed.
You said it quickly.
The numbers store openings and closings and then I have a couple of other questions.
For 2012? Research Division</strong> 2012 yes.
Yes.
Open 82.
Close 75.
Net open 7.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay great.
A couple questions.
The -- involving -- you mentioned that your private label apparel is still underperforming the branded apparel.
Is this maybe something where you should be looking maybe at sort of higher average tickets lower additional markup and building out your branded apparel business rather than trying to build out a private label business and really work up -- work it on an operating income basis for that versus trying to build private label -- or big private label source? Yes.
I mean we are planning to build the branded business and are stepping it up.
And I think we will see that continue to grow.
At the same time what we're doing with our private label business is we were for all intents and purposes selling cotton by the pound.
And we're shifting from that.
And it gives us the ability to provide the customer good quality at a price functionality and in some cases fashion and look with either colors or prints or logos for that matter that the customer wants.
We've got a line in Europe called Sneaker Freak and it's a very strong line of T-shirts and fleece.
And that's something that we can grow.
The Actra line in Women's has been very well received.
And the Champs line which is a higher quality line than we sold in the past Champs Sports gear we see that as an opportunity.
So we're not growing private label just to grow private label.
We're making sure that it fills the need in our assortment and has a place where it can grow along with our branded.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up to that.
In the past really you've been almost 80% private label.
What do you see the balance going to over time here? No.
We're nowhere near that level in private label.
Research Division</strong> No.
Not now but I mean you were a long time...
That I can't speak to.
But since I've been here we've never been near that.
And even so it's probably historically been over half branded.
But as I said earlier we're not looking for percentage.
We're looking for the right mix.
And at points in time if the brands are hotter they will be a larger percentage.
If they're not and we're able to provide look and value then private label will grow.
When you set a percentage or -- and go out and buy that way that usually leads to markdowns.
Research Division</strong> That's fair enough.
And then just lastly Lauren you talked about gross margin picking up 30 to 40 basis points in total next year? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And that would be -- so you're expecting your merch margin probably to be down.
Is that -- am I thinking about that correctly? Most of the leverage -- most of the improvement will come from leverage.
There will be a little bit of merchandise margin.
Research Division</strong> And then on the SG&amp;A where are you thinking about -- how are you thinking about your spend there? We're looking at 60 to 80 basis point improvement as a rate.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to recap where we stand with price increases coming through from some of your bigger brands.
I think some of those just started recently here or probably influencing that February number.
And as we think about how that ties in with the merchandise margin is that a merchandise margin positive? Is that -- or do the AUCs flex up somewhat in tandem with the AURs on the price increases? They go somewhat in parallel.
We average -- or I won't say we average -- we work with the vendor on certain items.
We're able to take up more on certain items.
We're holding the price or holding the cost.
And so it's difficult to say something across the board.
What you see is the percentage change and -- or the percentage we're trying to hold as you've heard with our plans is as close as possible.
But if the price goes up and the percentage is the same the dollars go up.
So there's that benefit.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask you one more here and then I have a third follow-up actually.
The mid-single digit comp you gave for the year with Europe down now pretty substantially but obviously with some noise there you said you expect that to be positive and we all see the sporting events coming on the horizon this year.
But Ken for 2 years now you've had to give us one number that didn't end up being conservative.
So at negative Europe at this point even though we think that can reverse when you look at that mid-single digit comp where do you feel like you can make up some ground if you need to? Where -- maybe in a year from now where do we look back and say there was potential for some upside there? Mid single digit comps.
We -- I mean the challenge we have is we know that there will be some businesses that will perform better and some that will perform not quite as well.
Right now where we see the balance at this point for the year is in the mid single digits.
And to say where -- who's going to perform much better or much worse so early in the game to call exactly we've got our plans.
But as Lauren said one of our -- one of the things that we've been able to do is respond both up and down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned something earlier that caught my attention about hooking up apparel with footwear and you've seen better trends there of bundling and the purchasing.
How do you -- is there any way you could give us some kind of a number even if it's pretty general that helps me think about improvements you're seeing in the basket of people coming in and selecting some apparel to throw in with footwear since you've been there? And maybe how you look at -- I think from the sound of it it sounds like it's something you're looking to be a driver for the year and rightfully so maybe how you're looking at that for the year ahead.
Yes we do look at that.
We track it at a number of different ways both in terms of the basket price and the units per transaction.
And the different divisions approach it differently because for example at Champs they have more apparel and they have more hookups where Foot Locker may do more accessories like socks and hats to go with it.
It also is more difficult to manage because in the past we may have focused more on hooking up a T-shirt with a pair of shoes.
One of the things we're seeing in Champs is they're hooking up a pair of a full tracksuit a track jacket with the track bottom.
And in many cases we're now selling those 1 to 1 where historically you'd sell -- it could be 2 to 1 as you look at the tops to bottoms.
So I think we're seeing -- we are tracking against that.
Those are internal measures but we're seeing success as we move forward.
And your next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the product margin thought process particularly on apparel.
I know mix is going to have some different dynamics in terms when one branded goes versus the private label piece.
But if you think about those 2 silos independently how are product margins looking as you think about 2012 on the branded piece and on the private label piece? Do they continue to show improvement? Yes both do.
We're doing a much better job in the back part of the year than the front part of the year on our private label margins.
And as we work with the vendors we're seeing good opportunities there too.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- when you guys think about Europe for a second -- I don't know if you kind of want to talk to this.
But when you think about your mid single digit comp forecast is that to imply that for the year the international or European piece would be down slightly and U.S.
piece be up mid single somewhere in that range? I'm just trying to think how Europe falls into that mid single digit forecast.
We felt good about planning for mid single digit and it's one of the benefits we have from having a diverse portfolio.
So we've said we've got a number of things that encouraged us about Europe's potential and some things that are working well that we will hope that takes it out of the performance we've seen this February.
But we've got other parts of the business that can make up for any shortfall.
As Lauren said in her remarks we're planning all the major divisions up and just some more up a little more than others.
So it's planned out for the year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just -- Lauren for you just one on the guidance particularly on -- when you talk about gross margin improvement in SG&amp;A leverage you mentioned also the extra week.
Is that included in that gross margins up 30 to 40 and SG&amp;A leverage 60 to 80? Is that extra week embedded in that or no? Is that [indiscernible]? No it is not.
The basis point guidance I gave you is on a 52-week basis.
So the 53rd week since it doesn't have occupancy cost associated with it we'll have better margin with that one week.
Okay.
Thank you everyone.
That's wrapping up today's call.
We look forward to seeing many of you next week at our investor meeting.
Please catch the webcast if you can't join us in person.
Beyond that we anticipate holding our first quarter conference Call at 9:00 a.m.
on May 18 following the release of our Q1 earnings the previous evening.
Thank you very much and goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to Foot Locker Inc.'s First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Earlier this morning we reported first quarter net income of $128 million or $0.83 per share.
This is the highest quarterly earnings the company has ever achieved as Foot Locker Inc.
The EPS figure of $0.83 is an increase of 38% over the $0.60 per share that we earned in the first quarter of 2011 and also represents our ninth consecutive quarter of sales and profit increases over the comparable prior year period.
Our prepared remarks will begin this morning with Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will review our first quarter financial results in more detail and touch on some key trends and factors likely to shape our results in the coming quarters.
Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will then provide additional insight into the current business environment and comment on some of the major initiatives of our updated strategic plan that we outlined during our investor meeting back in March.
As always will allow plenty of time for your questions after our prepared remarks.
So let me turn the program right over to you Lauren.
Thank you John and good morning to you all.
2012 has gotten off to a strong start as seen in the earnings result of $0.83 per share that John just mentioned a record level of quarterly earnings for the company as Foot Locker Inc.
Reviewing the results in detail we reported a 9.7% comparable sales increase with strength both in our stores at 9.1% and in our Direct-to-Customers segment which was up 16.5%.
Recall that in last year's first quarter we posted a comparable sales gain of 12.8%.
Therefore our 2 years stacked comp gain is a very strong 22.5%.
We noted on our previous call that February's comp gain was in the mid-teens.
That was followed by a high-single digit comp increase in March and a mid-single digit comp gain in April.
Although the comp trends may appear to have decelerated during the quarter we believe this pattern was influenced by the relatively warm weather in March compared to April which undoubtedly pulled forward some sales into March as did the 2-week shift forward of Easter.
As evidence that our sales momentum is continuing I can report that our May sales through yesterday are comping in line with Q1 at high-single digits.
With the exception of Foot Locker Europe all of our divisions posted a comp gain in the first quarter.
Let me start with Europe since I know that is a current area of interest for investors.
We said during our earnings call in March that Europe's comp was down high-single digits since February.
Fortunately February is not a big month for Europe the way it is in the U.S.
Europe finished the first quarter with a mid-single digit comp decline meaning that the trends improved over the last 2 months of the quarter to a low single-digit decline.
And within May's high-single digit comp gains for the entire company that I just mentioned Europe is up low-single digits.
We do expect European economies to remain challenging and there will be ups and downs in sales within our profitable European business.
However Ken will discuss during his remarks some initiatives we have in place that we believe position us to maintain our sales and profit growth in the European market.
Turning now to the strongest contributors to our first quarter results.
Champs Sports posted a comp gain in excess of 20% just as it did a year ago meaning that Champs has produced a 2 year stacked comp gain of more than 40%.
We are obviously very proud of the Champs Sports team and their results.
Our Direct-to-Customers segment was not far behind with a 16.5% gain on top of a 21% gain last year.
Excluding ccs.com the balance of our Direct-to-Customers segment also posted a 2-year stacked comp gain of approximately 40%.
Although CCS' gain was lower than the rest of the segment the division did have positive comps in the quarter both in the direct segment and in the CCS stores.
This indicates that the major rebranding that we launched in February is taking hold with customers and provides encouragement that we will be able to turn CCS into a positive contributor to both our top and bottom line over time.
Among our other store divisions Foot Locker in the U.S.
Footaction and Foot Locker Canada all had strong comp gains that approached or exceeded the double-digit mark.
All families of business footwear apparel and accessories had strong comp gains with apparel once again achieving an increase approaching 20%.
Within footwear Men's and Kids continue to trend the strongest while our Women's business was mixed.
In Men's basketball was the key driver as we strengthened our leading position in our biggest category.
However we also had strong performances in many other areas including Retro training footwear Jordan and Adi classics and seasonal items such as slides.
We maintained momentum in developing our running assortment although the gains here were smaller.
Increases in some lightweight running products such as Nike Free and new products like the New Balance Minimus were particularly strong.
As mentioned Women's footwear results were mixed with gains in technical and lightweight running as well as classics such as the Samoa from Adidas offsetting weakness in some of the more basic programs in our Women's portfolio.
Our Kids footwear business was strong in almost all divisions but particularly so in Champs and Foot Locker Canada with gains in those divisions exceeding 30% for the quarter.
In the U.S.
apparel gains continued to be particularly strong exceeding 20%.
The total company apparel gains fell just short of 20% due primarily to Europe where our already strong apparel assortment experienced a small comp decline in the face of the tough market conditions there.
Our other international divisions posted double-digit comp gains in apparel.
We also posted strong double-digit comp gains in hats and socks for the total company.
Turning to gross margin our rate increased by 130 basis points in the first quarter to 34%.
We continue to effectively lever our mostly fixed occupancy and buying cost which produced 100 of the 130 basis point gain.
The other 30 basis points was driven by a merchandise margin improvement.
Merchandise margins were higher than the last year across almost all of our U.S.
divisions led by the strong apparel performance.
Our branded apparel business was particularly robust a trend which has carried over from last year.
Margins were down slightly in Europe compared to the first quarter last year but the rate remains strong and our inventory remains fresh.
For the entire company footwear margins increased and stayed ahead of apparel margins with gains in Women's and Kids footwear leading the way.
SG&amp;A expense improved 110 basis points to 19.4% in the first quarter from 20.5% last year.
Committed to flow through our SG&amp;A dollars increased by only $8 million even while sales increased by $126 million.
We kept tight control of our store wages in order to improve our sales per payroll hour.
Each of our divisions focuses on key productivity metrics such as this to improve our expense performance on an ongoing basis.
We did spend $2 million more in marketing this year compared to last year an investment which we believe continues to pay off.
Based on our increased traffic and improving conversion rates we believe we are bringing customers to our stores and Internet sites and they are finding exciting product assortments that fit their lifestyles.
Even with our additional marketing spend which is up substantially from just a few years ago our 19.4% expense rate in the quarter is as good as it has ever been as an athletic company.
Our depreciation expense came in at $29 million up a bit from last year's $27 million reflecting the strategic investments that we have begun making in the business over the last year or so.
On the other hand interest expense was $1 million lower than last year primarily the result of having extended our credit facility at the end of 2011 with significantly lower annual fees.
Our tax rate also came in slightly better than the 37% rate we planned for as a couple of favorable prior year tax audit settlements allowed us to release reserves we have previously recorded.
The overall result for the quarter was net income of $128 million the highest level of earnings in any quarter not just the first quarter in our history as an athletic company.
As proud as we are of that accomplishment we remain focused on the many aspects of our business that we know we can improve upon.
And we have multiple initiatives underway to do just that.
We opened 25 stores in the first quarter the majority of which were in Europe and closed 34 with most of those being in the U.S.
We ended the first quarter with 3 360 stores down 9 from the beginning of the year.
Driving strong top line gains while replacing unproductive stores with profitable ones is a good recipe for enhancing many retail metrics such as sales per gross square foot and ROIC.
We will continue to work with our landlords to close loss stores throughout the year and improve the overall productivity of our fleet.
Moving on to inventory.
The productivity of this key asset also continues to improve as reflected in the 1.1% decline in inventory while achieving an 8.7% increase in overall sales.
On a constant currency basis inventory was up slightly compared to a 9.8% increase in sales.
We closely monitor inventory aging by division and family of business and target our markdown strategically to move product that isn't meeting our turnover objective.
The merchandise flow initiatives that we have implemented over the past year and our fresher inventory levels have allowed us to increase sales with reduced inventory.
We ended the quarter with $909 million of cash and short-term investments an increase of $110 million from the end of Q1 last year.
In recent years our first quarter has represented a peak in cash flow generation with cash balances subsequently declining until we get to the year-end holidays.
We continue to increase our strategic uses of cash.
Just this week our board approved a $10 million increase in our 2012 capital expenditure program taking the total from $160 million to $170 million.
The additional $10 million is targeted primarily for new projects in the Women's business and for technology upgrades in allocation and warehouse management system.
We continue to invest only in the highest returning projects [indiscernible] to drive our sales profits and ROIC to new heights.
Shareholders are also being rewarded with a dividend which increased 9% at the beginning of 2012 on top of last year's 10% increase to $0.18 per quarter.
We also brought in 878 700 shares in the first quarter spending the first $27 million under the new $400 million share repurchase program that the board authorized earlier this year.
Before I turn the call over to Ken let me touch on how we are positioning ourselves for the remainder of the year.
Yes we had a good first quarter result driven by a comp gain that was almost double digits.
As I mentioned May is off to a similarly good start.
However we continue to plan the rest of the year in the range of a mid-single digit comp increase.
We have consistently shown the ability to chase product to deliver higher sales gains if customer demand is there.
But by planning cautiously on the top line we also control our expense structure to ensure that our results do not suffer substantially from any slight shortfall in demand from the current pace.
Just as there are operational opportunities for us to improve our business there are macroeconomic challenges both in the U.S.
and Europe and our multiyear sales comparisons continue to get more and more challenging.
We believe we can continue to drive improved results over time as reflected in the new long-range goals we outlined at our investor meeting.
But we also believe in planning prudently which enables us to react to trend changes more effectively.
Turning from sales to gross margin we continue to anticipate leveraging our fixed cost with sales gains.
But with merchandise margins already at or above peak in many divisions future margin rate increases will likely be more modest than in recent years.
The 30 to 40 basis point gain we mentioned on our last call still applies to the remainder of the year.
When blended with the first quarter gain of 130 basis points this equates to an annual figure in the 50 to 60 basis point range.
Similarly we are planning SG&amp;A expenses for the remainder of the year to be down as a percent of sales by 60 to 80 basis points.
For the full year the gain may be somewhat higher than that given the first quarter's 110 basis point improvement.
Our depreciation expense is likely to come in a bit higher than the $110 million we mentioned on the last call closer to $115 million.
Our tax rate is still expected to be about 37% for the full year given our strong U.S.
performance.
Finally let me touch on one factor that we believe many of you are thinking about FX rates.
At the moment the U.S.
dollar is clearly stronger now than it was a year ago so we are facing some headwinds when translating our international profits into U.S.
dollars.
The impact of translating our international profits at this year's rates compared to last year's rates was an EPS decrease of less than $0.01 per share in the first quarter and we expect an impact of about $0.01 again in the second quarter based on current rates.
If these rates hold the full year effect of the weaker foreign currencies would be a decrease in EPS of about $0.05 per share.
However when we stated on the call in March that our objective is to produce double-digit percentage profit increases in each quarter we had planned for rates to be about where they are now so we had factored in that $0.05 full year headwind.
If the euro were to fall much below $1.25 of course these headwinds would grow stronger.
This isn't to say we couldn't still achieve our quarterly EPS growth goal and we will work to offset the FX impact on earnings.
With that financial overview let me turn the call to Ken so that he can provide you with more color on our first quarter results and address the key trends in our business.
Thank you Lauren and good morning everyone.
I appreciate you all participating on our call this morning.
It isn't every quarter that I can say we achieved the highest level of net income and EPS in the history of our business as an athletic company so let me say thank you to all of our associates who made it happen.
We had a lot of great partners who helped us along the way most visibly our excellent brand partners.
Results such as this don't happen without outstanding teamwork and excellent performance across the entire company.
We have elevated our financial results both in absolute terms and in terms of consistency.
As John noted this quarter was the ninth consecutive quarter of meaningful sales and profit increases.
We got out of the gate strong in February.
We believe we had many strengths as a company but there's no doubt that our ability to connect with the basketball customer is a huge competitive advantage for us.
The marquee basketball business was outstanding in February and indeed throughout the quarter as key player shoes such as the Lebron Rose Kobe and Durant all sold exceptionally well.
Lauren said I'd put color into my remarks well our vendors put color into these players' shoes and our customers snap them up.
In fact color was a consistent theme throughout all of our categories and we expect it to continue to be so in the future.
The Retro Jordan releases sold out almost immediately but the Jordan brand was also strong in classics.
Results in the Retro training category led by the Griffey and Diamond Turf were also impressive.
Adidas was a very strong performer in our stores and online and not just with the Rose shoes.
We also produced big gains in Adi classics such as the Hardcourt and originals such as the Samoa.
In the U.S.
Converse was a big part of our gain as we successfully rolled out many innovative styles and colors some of which like the padded collar Chuck we brought over from Europe.
We continued to develop our running assortments with good gains in the Prestige and from some of the technical brands such as ASICS New Balance Brooks and Mizuno.
As a category running was not as strong in the quarter as basketball or the lifestyle classics with gains in technical and lightweight running somewhat offset by lower sales in some of our longer heritage running programs.
In Europe our running business got a lift in the middle of the quarter with the introduction of the Nike Free.
Initial results are positive and we expect momentum to build over time just as it did in the U.S.
The Free gives us another strong platform to build on in Europe along with shoes like the LA Trainer from Adidas and the Nike Blazer.
We recognize that Europe is a challenging situation but we believe we are well positioned here to maintain our market position for this profitable business.
In the U.S.
our buyers successfully predicted the warm march whether by buying in sun a whole lot of slides which as a category that was definitely a big win for us in the quarter.
As Lauren pointed out our apparel business was strong especially in North America.
The Nike Jordan Adidas and Under Armour brands led the way with fleece tees and shorts all doing well.
Graphic and verbiage tees from our team edition facility also performed well throughout our banners.
The color hookups of the tees and shorts with the hottest shoes made for compelling statements to our customers.
We added more performance socks to our assortment including Nike Elites and Adi and Jordan brand socks.
Finally we extended our lineup of popular Snapback Hats from New Era in order to give our kids the opportunity for great head-to-toe hookups and he really responded favorably.
It all added up to a stellar quarter.
But while our store associates and field staff were delivering those results the rest of us were keeping our focus on the future and executing on the many opportunities to improve and expand our business that we outlined at our investor's meeting in March.
We don't have time to update you on everything that we're doing but I'll touch on some of the key growth areas.
First we said we would strengthen our apparel business which you can see from recent results we're doing.
We continue to refine the assortments by banner.
We have a stronger performance apparel story in Foot Locker for example compared to the lifestyle apparel in Footaction where we carry items that you won't see in our other banners such as RockSmith tees and Levi's jeans.
We also introduced the new Nike NFL apparel in our Champs Sports stores which we feel very good about going forward.
In Women's apparel we've rolled out bra and bottoms bars to most of our Lady Foot Locker doors as well as more performance product.
And the response has been good.
Of course it will take some time for customers to discover our new product offerings and we're not quite ready yet to tell full blown marketing stories about Lady Foot Locker.
However we are making good progress with apparel sales gains in Lady Foot Locker significantly outpacing footwear although both were up for the quarter.
Our Kids apparel growth has also been very strong recently although we're starting from a smaller base.
Over time we believe this will become a more significant part of our business.
Second and while I'm talking about Kids we're working to grow our overall Kids business.
We have planned several pop-up Kids stores in the back-to-school timeframe a strategy which worked well for us last year.
And we're working on opening Kids stores in select international markets later this year.
Meanwhile within our existing Kids stores we continue to roll out kid centric features such as our NBA Pros zone and we're also making the product assortments more kid centric while still offering the most popular takedowns of the hero shoes from Jordan Kobe Rose and others.
Third we have identified the overall Women's business as an area of exceptional growth potential and we're working hard to develop the proper long-range formula.
Meanwhile we have the largest chains of Women's athletic stores Lady Foot Locker to run on a day-to-day basis and we've been making progress.
I mentioned some of the apparel changes we've made but we also gained traction in footwear.
We produced gains in Nike performance running driven by in-season TR and Dual Fusion as well as with the Free which we launched in 5 colors across the entire chain.
Our technical brands including ASICS and Mizuno have also done well here as have the classics from Converse and Adi.
We're in the process of coming up with a completely redesigned Lady Foot Locker format as well as testing altogether new Women's concept.
It's too early to say anything specific about these efforts other than that the results may take some time to reach their expected full potential.
And in the meantime we'll work hard to make our existing Women's business a stronger contributor to our overall profitability.
Fourth and finally we identified team sales and services as a significant growth opportunity.
Our initial efforts in this area have produced very good results but again our existing base is rather small.
With the strong support of our vendors and building on the athletic heritage and infrastructure of Eastbay we see this business as one that can provide a substantial sales lift over time.
Looking ahead more broadly we remain confident about the trends in the athletic business.
Customers are continuing to respond favorably to the new technologies and colors across many categories of footwear apparel and accessories.
In addition we have some external factors working in our favor over the rest of the year.
First the London Olympics are likely to build consumer awareness of our products and not just in the U.K.
We'll be offering Olympic-themed product in all of our stores around the world.
The European championship soccer tournament next month will also provide momentum for our business in Europe.
Second there's no uncertainty about there being a full NBA season this year.
In fact our challenge is to make sure we build on the initiatives we took over the past year to protect our business in case the NBA didn't play and not get complacent given the knowledge that this year the season will start on time in October.
We're not really big on complacency here.
Third there's also no uncertainty about the NFL season this year.
And we have a motivated new vendor Nike who's also developing some exciting new products and we're looking forward to partnering with them in-store and online on some of their major initiatives.
Before I get to your questions I want to acknowledge our board's promotion this week of Dick Johnson to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
We have a strong management team at all levels but Dick has been one of the key contributors to the success we've had so far in executing our strategic initiatives and elevating our performance to the levels we're seeing today.
I look forward to continuing to work with Dick and the rest of our team to build on the solid base of business we have created and deliver even greater shareholder returns in the future.
Thank you and we'll be happy to take your questions now.
Go ahead Sandra.
[Operator Instructions]  And the first question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ken is this was -- I think this was maybe the first positive quarter for Lady Foot Locker in a few quarters if memory serves.
Is that accurate? That would be accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked a little bit about a refreshed strategy there when we saw you guys at headquarters in March.
Can -- and then we heard a step up in the CapEx about related to Women's.
Can you tell us a little bit about the project? At the Analyst Day I guess we saw a slide with some new Nike fixtures in the Lady Foot Locker and maybe we can hear a little bit more about the details around that.
Yes.
With the -- as you know we did a major study in looking at the Women's business and the opportunity there and one of the most important things was that this is apparel driven not shoe driven.
So what we've done is significantly step up the apparel we have in the store.
What you're talking about is you saw the bra and bottoms bars that we've placed in the stores as well as we've increased other apparel such as shorts T-shirts track suits from Adidas and Nike so there's a heavier sense of apparel.
There's also more performance in the stores.
We are looking and hopefully early in the fall season we will have a new design for the Lady Foot Locker stores that we will test that will allow us to show the apparel even better but at the same time not lose the strength we have in shoes.
And then finally as I said hopefully by the end of this year we'll be able to put up a store that's really designed from scratch.
We'll have a couple of prototypes to test that will allow us to really understand what we can fully do in the Women's business.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Were you guys able to teach yoga classes in the stores or? I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I will not be teaching yoga class in the store.
Research Division</strong> Well so that's been an area I mean that's been a chain that's just been a real disappointment for a long time and even since you've been there it's something that I know you scratch your heads on and gone back to figure it out a few times.
But I mean maybe you can help us just to think directionally.
I know you don't like to break down the chains but directionally where -- how far below what you think that chain can do on sales per foot or what you've seen historically in sales per foot at the Women's business are we at this point so we can think about the opportunity? We don't break out to specific chains but I will tell you that it performs on all our productivity measures well below the Men's chains.
And quite frankly based upon some of the competition out there we see no reason why it couldn't perform at the level of the Men's chains.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then maybe I think you've talked just a little bit about new prototypes that you were testing out at Champs and even the core Foot Locker.
Maybe just an update on how that looks...
Well we've now extended the prototype that we had for Champs in Tyrone Plaza.
And we've got 3 more test stores out there and by the end of the spring we'll have a total of 10 stores.
So we'll be able to test the real economic benefit of that.
We're encouraged by what we're seeing with the 3 new ones so -- and 2 of those by the way happen to be new stores.
But we will have them around the country and including up into Canada so that we'll be able to know we'll benefit from this and how fast we should be able to move on it next year.
We've put in a new Foot Locker prototype in Smith Haven Mall in Long Island and the results of that are encouraging.
We're -- as a prototype we're working out the bugs and hopefully we'll be able to roll out test stores and do the same thing that we're doing with the Champs.
It's just running about 6 months behind where Champs is.
Our approach is come up with the idea prototype it work the bugs out of it test it to understand the financials both in terms of cost to do and the benefit and then roll out based upon that test assuming that it's a positive and meets our hurdle guidelines.
Rather than just say here's an idea let's go out and change the world and maybe it works maybe it doesn't.
We're going to make sure the things we do work and have a payback.
And the next question is from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just Ken just a little more deeper dive in Europe I guess.
Maybe if you added some color just geographically I guess between the 5 major European countries just kind of where -- what you're seeing north versus south? And just the pickup in the business I guess where do you see  and you mentioned Nike Free being in place I guess it was more on the footwear side than in the apparel side.
Just your thoughts for that business Europe as we move to the balance of the year.
Yes I mean there's no question Europe's a challenging environment.
But to your point there are differences.
I mean Greece is somewhat of a basket case and that is a challenge but we only have a handful of stores there.
Across Southern Europe Portugal Spain Italy it's a little more challenging.
And we obviously have a strong position in Italy but the good news is they were very productive and profitable stores and they continue to be productive and profitable even with the business being down a bit.
The Northern Europe Germany France the Benelux countries are performing better and in fact in some cases some of those countries are up and those economies are better.
And so we see kind of a 3-tier business environment and we're responding to that.
That said in Shoes we've got some strong performers.
I mean I mentioned Free which is a plus for us.
The Blazer some of the Adi classics are doing well.
Converse is doing well for us so they're parts of the business that are doing very very well.
Apparel which was a bigger business in Europe slowed down a bit.
That was partially -- I think there's going to be a shift because it's been -- well we've been warm in the states.
It's been very cool in Europe.
And as it warms up I think our apparel our t-shirts and shorts will start to pick up there.
So it's not an excuse it's a timing issue.
So I'm not Pollyanna I'm not saying things are great in Europe because it is challenging.
But it moved it's in the low single-digit loss for the quarter.
It's running up a little bit now.
We're forecasting it'll be probably down in the low-single digits for the year but we do have a lot of things that we're performing well at and it is a productive chain or division that delivers.
It's interesting a lot of talk now when Europe is not performing well and the U.S.
is about Europe bringing us down.
There wasn't a lot of talk when Europe was flying and the U.S.
was down and how Europe would bring us up.
But our job is to make sure we keep the balance in focus and ride the U.S.
strong and make sure we maintain a strong position in Europe.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the apparel side between private label and branded you talked a lot about how branded performed.
Just a little color on private label and maybe any color between the margin delta between the 2 of them.
Did they both improve? Just any thoughts about that.
Yes our branded business continues to be strong because of I tell you the vendors are coming out with some great product.
I mean Nike Adidas has been very very strong Under Armour.
We've been very fortunate.
Our private label is improving and we've got our Women's Actra brand is doing well.
We've got Sneaker Freak which is a strong brand in Europe that's doing well.
But we continue to develop that business as we pulled down on the cotton by the pound T-shirts and move in to more technical apparel have more fashion in it.
And we also to some degree have done a shift because with our team edition capability where we're printing shirts for the brands that used to be -- some of that capacity used to be used with our private label and is now being done by the brands so -- or for the brands at a higher ticket.
And we're happy and pleased to do that because it's a fast growing business for us.
With regards to margins we continue to improve the margins.
The branded margins are somewhat higher than the private label but we're continuing to make progress on both fronts.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly real quick just your thoughts on the running business as we go through the year? Obviously some -- maybe some difficult comparisons but just probably your thoughts about how you think that could play out and what's in the pipeline? I think running is really going to continue to be a strong business.
There's a lot of newness coming out the Olympics will help.
You've got the PlanetShoes coming out from Nike that will be exciting.
Lightweight is really driving the business.
And that one of the things that's happened though with that is some of the heavier older shoes which with a higher ticket people have moved to the lightweight technology and it's a lower ticket.
That's put some pressure on the business.
That said we're seeing some great new shoes come out in those some of those what I call heritage lines that I think will help spark that business again.
So I think running is still a good story for the industry and a particularly good story for us.
And the next question is from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Ken are you seeing in Europe the sort of a shift from -- in the apparel side and in footwear from sort of more fashion oriented products? We've seen some of the other companies outside of your world come out with more challenging numbers there.
Are you seeing that there's sort of a shift more towards athletic because there's just more newness going on in the athletic world than in sort of some of the teen fashion space and so on? I don't -- I'd think there is more of the technical product that's being sold because it is more interesting and has more look.
You look at some of the colors for example on the Frees they're pretty impressive.
So I think there's more of that.
I don't necessarily think it's taking away from the fashion.
I just think the customer is more challenged and not able to buy as much as they used to.
So I would agree that the technical's going up because it has more look and fashion.
But when -- the Blazers being a good example or some of the Adi shoes Adidas shoes that we're selling they still want that fashion.
And the Chuck Taylors doing extremely well they want that fashion.
It's just that I think that they're challenged in how many they can buy or how much they can buy.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess my question is I mean like sort of some of the teen retails came out with more difficult numbers or one specifically in Europe.
Do you think that there's just more innovation either in fashion or color or technology happening with footwear and then the athletic realm than there is in that other business and it's -- and you're just seeing sort of a shift of one from the other to some extent.
Away from nonathletic to athletic? Research Division</strong> Away from -- yes but are they buying less jeans and are they buying more sneakers and other stuff? No.
I don't -- I think like I said I think that's -- on the margins that's what's happening.
I think the bigger issue is that you've got -- in Spain for example over 25% unemployment overall.
And with the youth it's almost -- if you're under the age of 25 you're not working.
And that's tough how can I keep buying more?  I can't buy my stuff every couple of weeks.
Now maybe it's every 3 weeks or once a month.
So that's I think -- well on the margin some of them are buying some of the technical shoes.
The fashion is just not moving as much because they're challenged.
And the best example I think to illustrate that is while we're selling Free nicely or very nicely North.
And we're selling it well in the South where fashion is more important in places like Italy and Spain.
It's good but not as great as it is where fashion isn't as important.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then secondly as you look ahead at what's being offered I would assume you're just about to -- you're sort of locked down through the holiday.
I'm not sure if you pre-lined spring yet.
But as you see the offerings coming from various people how does that look in both in footwear and apparel? And secondly on -- when you talk about apparel you talked -- you mentioned Under Armour.
Are you seeing -- is Under Armour helping in the Women's area? Are they stepping up with you in a different way at Lady Foot? Is that -- is something going on there? Yes we're working with Under Armour.
They've got a major effort in Women's and as do all of our vendors quite frankly.
And they're working with us very closely.
We've got a good relationship with them.
And they realize that to be successful in the mall we need to work together and we are on the apparel front and on the shoe front.
That said from all the vendors looking forward this fall as I said we've got the World Cup we've got the Olympics we've got a full season of football a full season of basketball and we've got some great names out there that are all exciting.
I mean you got Lebron and Wade and Rose and Durant's just hotter than a pistol both on and off the court that -- this is an exciting time for us.
And the next question is from Camilo Lyon from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Lauren you said something you've just seen that caught my attention when you spoke about apparel margins relative to footwear and that footwear margins were actually still increasing and did increase in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could just give a little bit more color around that? I would've thought that footwear margins were nearing peak if not there already.
So it's a nice surprise to see that those continue to increase.
Yes we think the same good to see that they're increasing.
So we've talked about it before apparel margins is still below footwear margins.
And we did narrow the GAAP though in the quarter so although footwear margins improved apparel margins improved year-over-year relatively more.
But we still are at that case where footwear is higher than apparel which encourages us that as we develop that apparel business that that will help margins.
And what's -- one of the things that's happening that's helping the footwear margins it's because we're -- 2 things one we obviously -- cost went up and as a result we adjusted pricing and the customers accepted those prices because we work very closely with the vendors on where it made sense and where it didn't.
And the second thing is a lot of the flow programs that...
They're really paying off.
Lauren really led that effort on are paying off because we're able to have more full price sales on all of our product.
As we improved that flow it keeps the product fresher and supports more full price selling.
Research Division</strong> So is there -- is it safe to assume that there's still more runway on the footwear margins out on the business? Well we're going to keep working on the flow initiative.
And the brands are too.
As I think as Lauren said in her remarks we're going to be a little more -- we're not as -- we'll be a little more conservative as we go through the year.
But as we keep working on them we keep finding new opportunities.
Research Division</strong> All right then.
I think we can all appreciate the conservatism.
But just to be clear there isn't anything that should materially change from the product flow opportunity perspective.
And obviously price increases are going to continue to come through the pike in future quarters correct? Yes.
But one thing that I'd say is we do continue to say that -- look for it to be 30 to 40 basis points.
You get the leverage out of the occupancy the fixed cost.
But those product margins we'll keep working on flow.
But as we talked about last year and we still see it this year our IMU the difference between retail price at its origin MSRP and the cost we pay that's narrowed.
So we've got some pressure on margins there but again we keep working on the flow stuff to help us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Understood.
And then would you care to comment on what that gap between apparel and footwear margins has narrowed to? Is that gap now in tens of basis points? Or is it still hundreds of basis points? Any sort of broad quantification would be appreciated.
No.
I understand.
It's still a meaningful gap but that we've -- gives us opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just going back to Europe if can because I think it's an interesting and important topic here clearly on everyone's mind.
It sounds like the demand in your European business really was a function of having more of the better product less so macro constraints or is that kind of a fair assessment there? It's as you got more free product during the middle of the quarter then you started to see those comps improve? Is that how we should think of that going forward? Well no.
I wish we could overcome the macro world but we can't.
But that said it is a product it's not -- as Sam talked about and I talked about it doesn't take away a lot of the sales that we had going on so it's additive.
And so as we expand our efforts with things like Free it's additive to what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe since you've opened up new stores on the continent I think these were more Eastern European stores if you could just talk about the performance of those new store openings in Europe that would be helpful too.
We're pleased with the new stores that we've opened in those countries to the point that we're continuing to open stores in Poland and the Czech Republic.
And the next question is from Steve Glagola from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> With regards to the European football championships and the Olympics do you guys have any initiatives planned to highlight these events? And just -- how do you expect this to impact the SG&amp;A over the next couple of quarters? Well we'd obviously we don't sell pure Olympic like -- well we do in Eastbay but where we will get our benefit is twofold.
We have a fair bit of apparel that we'll be selling ranging from T-shirts to very high priced leather jackets that we'll be selling in our stores.
And so we will have -- that will provide a benefit and provide interest.
We've got some great looking product that we've seen from Adidas and Nike.
There will also be product like shoes that will look like some of the shoes that some of the athletes will be wearing and we will have those.
The second and probably the bigger and longer-term impact that we've always seen from things like the Euro Cup and the Olympics are people just want to be more fit.
They feel inspired and more people go out and take up running or playing basketball with the anniversary 20th anniversary of the Dream Team there's going to be tremendous excitement about that both in terms of product but also in terms of people saying well those guys are still up running around I probably can too.
And the third thing is some of the technology.
We've talked about the Flywire.
There's also new technology that will be going in the shoes that Lebron will be wearing that will -- I actually tested and did not do as well as Lebron did that showed you how high you could jump or how fast you can move and people will be able to track that.
And that technology I think from Nike will be able to -- that people will see and will use and it will be an ongoing thing.
So you have -- the product that goes with Olympics.
You've got just the aura around the Olympics and then the technology that will come out of the Olympics that will all encourage sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then also just lastly in terms of the comp for the quarter I don't know if you mentioned just the split of AUR versus units and just kind of how you expect that to trend over the remainder of the year? We did not.
And we don't give the specifics but  we had -- well actually all of the measures were up.
Traffic was up.
The conversion was up and AUR was up.
And the next question is from Kate McShane from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can add some detail another question on Europe but just to kind of fully understand exactly what's going on in the environment.
I just wondered what the competitive environment is like there currently? And how healthy are some of your competitors? And if that potentially is an opportunity over the next 6 months to 12 months? Well one of the things and we stayed pretty close through both our own organization and monitoring the industry it's challenging for some of our less well-financed competitors and we've seen a number of them that have gone away.
And I think more will have challenges and that will provide an opportunity for us.
We were able -- for example we just recently -- somebody was going away and we've picked up 6 leases in the Czech Republic and Poland that allowed us to enter those countries in a better way because they were getting out of the business.
In Europe remember there are still a lot more very small chains and that provides opportunity for us as we look both in terms of competition falling out and potential places to go.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my second question is about ASPs.
And I know it's a little bit early to be thinking about 2013.
But I wondered if you had any view that as we get into the end of the year where we could see ASPs going.
Do you have the sense that vendors are going to continue to increase prices or do you think 2012 was the year to increase prices as the inflationary pressures and then we'll see the more normalized environment at the end of the year and starting in 2013? I think that 2012 was a higher-than-normal year.
And there will still be some pressures because not so much because of raw materials but because of labor prices in some of the markets.
We will see some price increases.
They'll probably be more modest.
They'll probably be much more targeted but I don't think we'll see what we saw in 2012 and I don't see them going down.
And the next question is from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just -- first question just looking at the digital business could you -- if you exclude Eastbay what is the growth that you're seeing in the rest of your Direct-to-Customers business? And also where are we on launching the websites in the various European countries? For the non-Eastbay websites we're in the -- and it varies by site whether it's Foot Locker Champs Kids Foot Locker whatever we're up in the 30% to 40% range.
So we're seeing very significant good growth.
They are from my perspective we're still under penetrated but we've got a significant effort between the stores and the websites to make sure that we continue to grow there and really drive a much more coordinated business.
Our web business versus our competition is a much larger business.
We've got a longer heritage and we feel very good about it as we go forward.
In Europe we have -- we've had a website in the U.K.
We rolled out in the Benelux in France Germany and we're working on doing some of the southern countries.
Hopefully we'll have another country or 2 to add by the end of the year and some more in the spring of next year so we continue to roll that effort out.
Research Division</strong> Okay great that's helpful.
Also expense management was very impressive this quarter.
Could you just give a little bit more detail in terms of which areas you saw the most leverage whether it was store payroll or marketing corporate expenses? And also just is there anything timing related that will kind of alter the pace of the year-over-year expense growth in the coming quarters? Perhaps second quarter versus second half.
Should we expect the low single-digit increase in expenses to continue? Yes.
Again I'd reiterate that what you would expect for the balance of the year is 60 to 80 basis points per quarter.
With the spending $8 million more than a year ago the improvement in SG&amp;A was across the board.
We really were very very thoughtful in where we had increases.
And as we've said marketing was one of the places that we've looked to continue to tell our story.
And the next question is from Robbie Ohmes from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
The first the flying Nate in the Nike Plus be boss sneaker being launched at the Olympics are you expecting significant quantities of those shoes? Is this a big push that we could see in July August? Or should we think more of it being seeded into the market and those could be more drivers to your business in 2013? I'm thinking the whole markets they are -- safe to say they're being seeded.
This is something -- Nike's a very thoughtful company of how it manages new products and technologies.
They're going to get it out there.
We will have it in a number of our best running stores and on Eastbay and online.
And we think it will be good or very good to start and we look forward to working with them.
But the real push will be as it becomes as the other new technologies have more of taken in to the market and I think in 2013 it will be a big play.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I don't know if you'll give us a lot of insight into this any new apparel programs for fall? Any new brands coming in? Anything that you weren't doing last fall or that you're not doing right now in the spring that we should be excited about? Well probably one of the biggest things is our team addition program.
That's really helped us with the T-shirts and we've expanded that with each of the major brands.
We were able to test the T-shirt.
We can put out 20 different styles see -- get 120 in some stores see which ones work and then come back within 4 or 5 weeks with several thousand of the ones that worked.
So that's one of the biggest plays.
But I think the other thing is each of the vendors has stepped up their technology and what they're doing when you look at what Under Armour brought out last fall.
You look at what Nike's doing.
You look at what all of them are doing in women.
And we continue to work with Adidas on their programs.
So it's not that it's a revolutionary technology it's that they upped their game with the programs that they have significantly.
And the next question is from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Ken maybe talk about the sort of mixed shift if you will -- or I'm sort of curious on the assortment basketball versus running.
Clearly the cycle has been driven primarily by the lightweight running category.
But now we've seen sort of the re-acceleration in basketball.
When you first came on board you sort of talked about deemphasizing basketball a bit.
Maybe just again speak to the ability across the banners to flex the assortments basketball relative to running and what you're seeing on the trends? Yes I never wanted to deemphasize basketball.
I just want to emphasize running more.
But what happened was there's a lot of technology and a lot of new things going on in running and we still continue to see.
I'm looking down at John's feet now I'm seeing some of the new shoes that he's got on.
So that helped to drive that business and lightweight was a big part of that.
And basketball quite frankly not a lot of newness has happened.
Well I would say there's 3 things that now have happened to basketball that have really stepped it up.
One is there's some new technologies and things lightweight has become more important.
Ankle support has become more important.
So you see different things that the brands are doing to help drive that.
Second is that the players have expanded and have all performed well and stayed out of trouble and it's really helped the business.
When you look -- it's not just -- okay there's Michael Jordan or it's not that there's just Lebron.
You've got Lebron you've got Kobe you've got Rose.
You've got Durant you've got Wade.
And all of them are performing -- and there's more than that.
They're all performing well.
And the third thing I think that's happened is the look has really gotten good.
They've really worked hard to improve the look there.
So between technology the players and the look that helped the basketball.
And so what's really happened is that the basketball business has come back.
Our ability to flex quite frankly is significant because of the markets we're in and the different banners.
So you've got a banner like Footaction that is much more basketball driven and we can -- they benefit more from what's happening in basketball whereas Foot Locker has a tendency to be more balanced.
And they can have a shift on what goes back and forth.
But we can up our level of play in whichever one's working and still be true to what each of the banner stands for.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then maybe just to follow on that from a pricing perspective we obviously know the vendors are putting through these price increases relatively broadly.
But it sounds like from a mixed perspective the running category as lightweight sort of increases you say ASP's actually a little bit down relative to the heritage.
Can you maybe just speak to where the sort of targeted price increases are really coming? Is it within the basketball category? Is it just select within running? And then how do we think about this sort of puts and takes from a pricing perspective? It's in all of the categories.
And what's happening is as they come out with new technology they're able take the pricing up.
The launched shoes.
Some of the prices we're selling shoes about $225-$250.
But at the same time we've got a Durant shoe they're $110-$120.
So we're able to have a range of prices.
But I think what the vendors have done very well is they brought out new technology which has allowed us to take the price up but give the customer a tremendous value.
So it ain't -- it may even be from the same family.
It may be Lunar or Free but they've added things to it to be able to get $5 or $10 more.
And some of the more technical running brands like ASICS [indiscernible] Gel or Mizuno those have been able to maintain strong selling even with the lightweight at some pretty good prices.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we can just lastly switching gears a bit but to the real estate side.
I understand you're layering growth in Europe.
But domestically maybe you sort of speak to the environment your discussions and negotiations with landlords how those fair? Obviously in some -- given your productivity levels are doing quite well.
So just in terms of that relative to still finding some of the more unprofitable doors that you could continue in vet? And how much of that still could potentially be a lever to pull on the margin side as well? Well we're still working with what we call our lost stores and there are opportunities there.
And we won't know -- because most of the negotiations really don't get hot and heavy until the latter part of the year.
But some landlords gives us concessions some don't and some malls just aren't performing so we get out of them.
But we continue to work and I will tell you that it is still a lever.
You've heard we've closed a number of stores in the first quarter we will continue if a store does not make it and it's not strategically important we will not -- we'll pull out of that store.
That said we are opening other stores.
We're opening Foot Lockers we're opening Kids and we're opening Champs stores.
Champs you've heard it's performing well.
It's one of our smaller number and there are a number of malls that don't have Champs in it.
And the next question is from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> With regard to Champs doing so well running ahead of the other banners could you give us a clue as to qualitatively what is the difference between Champs and where the other banners are? And how quickly you think the gap may narrow? Well Champs was the banner that we really started with defining and clarifying the banners.
And it's about 6 to 8 months ahead of the other banners and with regard to that.
And they benefited from that.
They've also benefited in the apparel that we've pushed -- we've pushed the apparel business and I think straightened that out sooner so the clear banner definition that -- the use of apparel.
And then the third thing is we started stepping up their marketing first.
So we were pushing their marketing faster.
So they're 6 to 8 months ahead of the other banners.
And remember one of the things that we did Jake was part of the team -- Jake Jacobs was part of the team and we helped set that up and we've moved him now back up here and he's taking some of those same lessons he learned down in Champs and applying them to BigFoot.
Research Division</strong> So you're feeling is that the others are on track similar to Champs? Yes.
We think a lot of the changes and things now I wouldn't sit here and say we're going to see a 20% increase from them.
But I think that a lot of the changes and things that Champs did to put themselves in the position we can continue -- we are doing and we'll see in Foot Locker Lady Foot Locker Kids Foot Locker and Footaction.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Now another question you're a very important distribution channel for Nike no question about it.
What are your thoughts about Nike opening apparel shops at Penney assuming that shops like that would be at least 500 feet maybe to 1 000 more space than a specialty apparel a specialty footwear retailer can allocate to apparel.
I don't know if Penney's might have been pretty mature exactly in defining what that is.
I obviously can't talk about what Nike does or doesn't do with Penney's.
But right now Penney's does sell Nike apparel and it's a different level.
And so we don't -- I'm not as concerned about that level because ours is higher quality and more look than what they have.
I also would say that when other people have opened in the mall for the most part that actually helps us because it drives -- people get the idea but they drive because of our assortment it drives them more to us.
So I'm obviously not excited about somebody opening up a bunch of outlets.
But I think that our merchants and our position in the market with Nike will allow us to be well positioned and to be able to beat somebody who's that's not their forte.
Research Division</strong> Well I have to tell you this so you've set a standard and I'm going to hold you to it.
Record earnings quarter-after-quarter.
Well we appreciate it Bernie.
We're going to try.
And we have Taposh Bari from Jefferies Online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right so Ken it sounds like the underlying trends in basketball and running are both pretty robust and have been for at least 2 years now.
So I guess the question for you guys is do you feel like Foot Locker and the other brands within your portfolio have a more competitive or greater kind of structural competitive advantage in basketball based on what seems to be more exclusivity in some of these marquee styles that you're speaking to? Because it sounds like pretty much everyone out there is selling and doing well in lightweight running.
I just want a take on your thoughts on that.
Yes I think because of our position in the industry and with the customer we are better positioned with basketball.
We have the benefit of being a strong player with exclusives.
We probably have the best assortment of basketball from Nike Adidas Under Armour and Reebok.
And I think that that allows us to be the place to go when somebody wants some basketball shoe both for performance and for look.
So basketball's a little different than running and I think you said it that it's not just one thing in running and it's not just one vendor or and it's not as player driven whereas basketball is much more driven by those things and we're well positioned in basketball.
That said I feel very good about our position in running.
And I'd like to have more I'd like to have more of both.
But I think we can have more in basketball -- or I'm sorry in running because of our penetration.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just the other question that I had was on a point about running.
You spoke to a little bit of a mixed shift away from traditional to lightweight.
Is that a phenomenon that really accelerated this past quarter? Because I would have thought that that would have been ongoing now for a while.
And I guess in addressing that move is there a way that you can tweak your merchandise strategy to better capture that underlying trend? Yes I think there's 2 elements.
one is to make sure that we're best positioned in lightweight.
But second in some of the more heritage programs or more technical programs by stepping up what we have with technical when you look at what we're doing with people like ASICS Mizuno Brooks softening that helps.
But also with Nike we can step up our efforts in technical with Nike and improve.
And I know that each of the vendors is working hard to take some of those heritage programs to make them even stronger.
Thank you for your participation in our call today.
That's all we have time for.
But we look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9 a.m.
on Friday August 17 following the release of our second quarter and year-to-date earnings earlier that morning.
Thanks and goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risk and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received yesterday's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
We're happy that you could join us this morning to discuss Foot Locker Inc.'s results for the third quarter of 2012.
Earlier this morning we reported that Foot Locker had record earnings of $106 million or $0.69 per share a 60% increase over the $0.43 per share that we earned in Q3 last year.
As noted in the release these GAAP results benefited from a $9 million tax adjustment.
Without this benefit which added $0.06 to the results non-GAAP earnings were $0.63 per share an increase of 47% over last year.
This very strong profit result another record for our company brings year-to-date earnings on a GAAP basis to $293 million or $1.90 per share a 50% increase over the same 39-week period last year.
I'm joined this morning by our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lauren Peters who will begin with a summary of our third quarter and year-to-date financial results.
She will also update our outlook for the rest of the year.
Ken Hicks Foot Locker Inc.'s Chairman and CEO will then review our progress on several of the key initiatives that the management team outlined in our long-range plan earlier this year.
Ken and Lauren will hit the highlights for all of our banners and all regions of our global operations and we'll leave time for your questions afterwards.
I'll turn it over to you now Lauren.
Thank you John and good morning to you all.
We truly appreciate your interest in Foot Locker.
After reporting comp sales gains for the first 2 quarters that were very strong but which fell just shy of 10% we were very pleased to report this morning that we not only sustained top line momentum in the third quarter we are able to call out a double-digit quarterly comp store sales gain.
Our 10.2% comp store sales gain in Q3 brings our year-to-date gain to a very strong 9.9%.
We continue to execute well in terms of translating those top line gains into record bottom line results.
The non-GAAP earnings of $0.63 per share that John mentioned was the highest level of Q3 earnings in our history as an athletic company.
Our year-to-date EBIT margin flow-through in other words the increase in year-to-date EBIT divided by the year-to-date increase in sales is almost 40% indicative of solid expense management even as we invest in programs to drive traffic and increase productivity and as we tapped many exciting new ideas for our stores and Internet sites.
To focus on the top line first.
Our domestic stores collectively comped up in the low-double digits in the quarter.
The only division with a comp store loss was Lady Foot Locker which Ken will touch on during his remarks.
The best performer was once again Kids Foot Locker with a gain topping 20%.
Champs Sports domestic Foot Locker and Footaction all had double-digit comp gains for the quarter.
The gain at Champs was especially impressive coming on top of a similar double-digit gain last year for a 2-year stacked gain of approximately 30%.
Foot Locker Europe finished with an essentially flat comp for the period.
As we noted on our last call Foot Locker Europe started the quarter on a positive note in August and sustained that low-single digit gain performance through much of September.
However after the customer had kept their appointment with us during the important back-to-school selling period October softened somewhat giving us a flat comp sales performance for the quarter.
Ken will also touch on our European initiatives a bit later in the call.
Our other international divisions performed well with Foot Locker Canada posting a high-single digit gain and Foot Locker Asia/Pacific coming in with a mid-single digit increase.
Sales in our Direct-to-Customer businesses were up 18.3% overall with our athletic banner Dot-Coms up almost 50% in the aggregate.
Included in the overall gain was a high-single digit comp decline at CCS.com which continues to redefine its place in the very promotional skate category.
Excluding CCS the 2-year stacked comp results of our digital business continued to exceed 40%.
Our comp performance was very consistent across footwear apparel and accessories each within a percent or 2 of the overall 10.2% comp.
Within footwear the kids' category was strongest posting a gain in the high teens across all of our divisions.
Women's footwear was up slightly as gains across most divisions more than offset the decline at Lady Foot Locker.
Within men's footwear the basketball category continues to show great momentum with a gain of more than 20%.
Our customers were drawn to the key player shoes such as LeBron Kobe and Rose.
The Jordan Brand including Jordan Classics is exceptionally strong with all of the Retro shoes selling through very well.
Basketball is also becoming increasingly relevant in Europe where the growth comes not from our key player shoes but in Jordan and a variety of classic basketball silhouettes such as the Blazer and Adi Hardcourt.
Running was slightly positive overall with gains in our U.S.
stores and online sites partially offset by weakness in Europe where some customers are migrating out of running and training styles into the court styles I just mentioned.
The Nike Free is clearly the running shoe of choice for many of our customers.
But technical running shoes from the likes of ASICS and Mizuno are doing well as are other Nike running models such as the Flex and Dual Fusion.
As I mentioned apparel was up low-double digits with a solid gain in the teens in the U.S.
slightly offset by a small comp decline in European apparel sales.
Branded apparel continues to outperform private label.
And the back-to-school uniforms certainly seem to include at least one verbiage T-shirt very likely produced by our Team Edition facility.
Within accessories our gain was led by high-performance socks from Nike Adidas and Jordan.
Hats were also doing really well as our customers are literally looking for us to provide them with a complete head-to-toe hookup.
By month we posted low-double digit comps in the key back-to-school months of August and September and a high-single digit comp gain in October.
If you look at it on a 2-year stacked basis our comp pattern was steady throughout the quarter in the high teens.
Our gross margin rate rose to a solid 33.1% in the third quarter an increase of 60 basis points compared to last year.
The margin story is similar to last quarter in that the gain was a combination of occupancy leverage from which we picked up 100 basis points partially offset by a 30-basis point reduction in merchandise margin and another 10-basis point decline due to lower shipping revenue from our Direct-to-Customers sales.
In our U.S.
stores and online sites we were successful in offsetting the reduced initial markup percentages from our vendors which we have described on previous calls by lowering our markdown rate.
As a result our merchandise margins outside of Europe held steady year-over-year.
The 30-basis point decline in merchandise margin primarily stemmed from Europe where we continue to take additional markdowns in order to keep our inventory position current and on trend.
That said our European business remains productive and profitable and we believe we are taking share in several markets.
In fact our profits in Europe during the quarter were higher than a year ago even after backing out the $7 million adjustment we took last year related to European vacation accrual.
Mentioning that adjustment from last year brings me to SG&amp;A which improved by 210 basis points in the third quarter to a rate of 20.9% compared to 23% last year.
Even excluding the European adjustment of a year ago SG&amp;A still improved by a very strong 160 basis points.
SG&amp;A leverage starts with maximizing the productivity store wage expense.
But we continue to invest in tools and technology to drive improvement.
First we've installed a program to help us manage our payroll hours and make sure the right associates are on the sales floor at the right time.
Second we have rolled out a tool to improve the efficiency of the associate hiring process.
And third we continue to expand traffic counters to more doors which allows us to measure conversion and implement programs to propel sales per payroll hour even higher.
Looking at our year-to-date SG&amp;A performance.
We have produced a sales gain of $348 million with an SG&amp;A expense increase of only $12 million.
We achieved this tremendous leverage while making incremental investments in powerful marketing programs a great example of which is the Foot Locker Approved campaign that we launched this summer which clearly helped drive increased traffic and sales in our stores during back-to-school.
Our depreciation expense was $30 million for the period up $3 million from last year reflecting the increased level of capital investments we're making in the business.
Meanwhile interest expense was flat at $1 million.
Our GAAP tax rate for the third quarter came in at 31.7% due to the settlement of a foreign tax audit which allowed us to reduce tax reserves established in prior periods.
Releasing those reserves reduced our tax expense by $9 million or $0.06 per share.
On a non-GAAP basis excluding that benefit our effective tax rate was 37.5% in line with our expectations.
A GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation reflecting this tax adjustment was included in this morning's press release.
The bottom line net income total of $106 million in Q3 is the highest level of earnings of any third quarter in our history as an athletic company and more than 60% higher $40 million higher to be precise than last year.
On a year-to-date basis our GAAP earnings in 2012 are up almost 50% $96 million higher than a year ago which was our previous best-ever year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our inventory increased 3% compared to last year.
Given a total sales increase of more than 9% it is clear that our turns are improving and our inventory is fresh.
We feel well positioned in all of our markets for the holiday selling season.
Our cash position continued to strengthen as we ended the quarter with $853 million of cash and short-term investments.
We spent approximately $30 million in the quarter to repurchase 841 000 shares.
We've already repurchased almost 3 million shares this year under our $400 million share repurchase program at a cost of about $94 million.
We are also on track to spend approximately $170 million in capital this year as we continue to invest in high-return potential projects to drive future business performance.
In a few minutes Ken will talk about some of the initiatives we are testing that can justify additional capital dollars in the coming years.
We're still developing our 2013 capital program.
But for right now suffice it to say as we did on the last call that the potential exists to significantly increase our capital spending over the next few years.
On the real estate front we have closed 72 stores and opened 70 year-to-date bringing our store count to 3 367 at the end of October.
Many of the new stores are in Europe which helped propel our profits there that I noted earlier.
We have a handful of new stores still to open this year and as mentioned on the call in August we are on track to close slightly more than 100 stores for the full year as we continue to aggressively tackle the least-productive stores in our fleet in order to improve our financial returns and overall productivity.
Before I turn the call over to Ken let me turn to the rest of the year.
First as everyone knows the quarter got off to a challenging start with some truly severe weather events.
But despite that our comp sales through yesterday are actually up mid-single digits.
But let me pause here Ken since I know you'd like to comment on Sandy.
Yes.
Thanks Lauren.
First of all I want to express my deepest sympathies to everyone who suffered losses and hardships due to Hurricane Sandy.
Fortunately all of our associates are safe but many did experience significant even devastating damage to homes and property and some remain dislocated.
Through our charitable entity the Foot Locker Foundation we have created a fund to support our associates most directly impacted by the storm.
And we've made donations to the American Red Cross and our operating divisions have also donated shoes to local charities.
I was extremely impressed by the dedication of so many of our associates who as soon as the storm passed went to extraordinary lengths to get to their stores distribution centers or offices to keep the business running if not quite at top speed then as close to it as possible.
I want to thank all of them.
It was a tremendous effort.
Indeed it was extraordinary.
At the peak we had about 200 stores closed for several days but we got all but a handful of the stores open very quickly.
Given the size of our global footprint we do not expect the storm to have a material impact on our fourth quarter results.
And as I said month-to-date comps are up mid-single digits with most of the sales trends I mentioned for the third quarter still in place.
Specifically Europe's comps are running down somewhat and Lady Foot Locker is also negative.
The rest of the key banners have good positive momentum.
We are planning comps for the fourth quarter to be up toward the upper end of mid-single digits.
Please remember that the fourth quarter this year contains an extra 14th week.
This extra week takes us into the beginning of February one of our biggest months of the year.
This shift does not in itself impact comps.
However our current forecast is that the week could add about $0.10 per share to our reported earnings.
Gross margin is expected to be up 50-or-so basis points on a comparable 13-week basis in line with recent quarters.
The same margin dynamics namely lower IMU offset by lower markdowns with pressure from the mix between U.S.
and international sales are expected to continue in the fourth quarter.
The extra week which contains no occupancy expense will of course provide significant incremental leverage to the overall margin rate that we report.
Similarly we intend to continue to leverage our SG&amp;A expense on a comparable 13-week basis and the extra week will lower the rate about 40 basis points even further.
Our tax rate in the fourth quarter is expected to be more in line with our new normal run rate of between 37% and 38%.
The greater contribution of earnings coming from the U.S.
where the tax rate is higher than our average international tax rate is pushing the blended rate up from the trend of the last few years which was around 37%.
Finally currency movements created profit headwinds of about $0.01 per share in the third quarter.
This equals the impact we saw in the second quarter and brings the year-to-date impact of exchange rate changes on our reported earnings to a minus $0.03.
Having given you all of the financial details I'd like to turn the call back over to Ken so he can paint the bigger picture as well as address several of the key initiatives we have underway.
Thanks Lauren and good morning.
I'd like to add my thanks to everyone for your participation on today's call.
Let me first spend a few minutes developing some of the themes that Lauren touched on.
For example she noted the potential for an expanded capital expenditure program in the next couple of years.
As you've heard us say we're actively developing and testing new prototype stores for virtually all of our banners.
The banner that is furthest along in that process is Champs Sports.
And so far the results of that banner's test stores have been quite good.
We want to see how they perform during the holiday season before making a final rollout decision.
But we're optimistic an accelerated remodel program for that banner will produce significant returns for the business.
Moving to Foot Locker in the U.S.
That banner has a couple of prototype stores in operation one in Smith Haven Mall on Long Island and the other at Willowbrook Mall in New Jersey.
We are still in the early days for those stores and we're learning from them.
The initial reads are definitely encouraging and we plan to put in place several more test stores this quarter and more in the first quarter.
We've also been testing Kids Foot Locker stores.
We've put in place pop-up Kids stores in malls with strong children's business within the regular Foot Locker to test whether the malls can support both banners profitably.
The results have been encouraging.
We're also testing a new design of Kids Foot Locker and trying out Kids Foot Locker stores in Europe where we think the banner will translate well.
Turning to our women's business.
This is still a work in progress.
As Lauren mentioned Lady Foot Locker posted negative comps for the quarter.
Although disappointing it wasn't a huge surprise because we're really moving that business to reach a different customer.
And I've certainly been around long enough to know the old retail cliché that when you fire a customer they know right away.
But when you hire them it can take a while for the new customer to find you.
We are really repositioning Lady Foot Locker to cater to that active woman in her 20s and 30s with a premium assortment of stylish great-fitting high-performance athletic apparel shoes and accessories.
The 14 rescanned Lady Foot Lockers feature all the premium athletic brands such as Nike ASICS Adidas Under Armour New Balance and Reebok that fit the active woman's on-the-go lifestyle.
The new banner that we just announced SIX:02 is targeting that same customer taking a strong position on fitness and performance that is even more pronounced than the rescanned Lady Foot Lockers.
We will support the broad product assortment in SIX:02 with well-trained highly knowledgeable store associates and an exciting new store environment.
The 3 SIX:02 stores are almost 4 000 square feet larger than our average Lady Foot Locker.
These test stores will be open for Black Friday.
One is in the Stamford Town Center in Connecticut one is in the Willowbrook Mall in New Jersey and the other is in North Star Mall in San Antonio Texas.
It is far too early to tell whether the repositioning moves we're making in the women's business will produce the returns necessary to justify a major rollout.
But we know we had to make the move because the productivity of the Lady Foot Locker business over the last several years has not compared favorably to our male banners.
It will take some time for the customer to find us and see the compelling product stories we believe we have for her in both Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02.
However every day we're learning more about how to deliver the shopping experience and merchandise assortment that she wants.
And we have a talented highly motivated and dedicated team here that keeps making strategic adjustments to the formula.
And I'm confident we're headed in the right direction.
Let me turn now to Europe.
As Lauren mentioned we posted a flat comp there.
Under the challenging economic circumstances faced by most of our customers there we aren't disappointed at that result.
At the same time we continue to implement initiatives to strengthen the business even more.
For example with traffic in Europe relatively weak we are heightening the focus of our store associates on customer conversion.
Another example is our push to take advantage of the recent fashion trend shift in Europe towards basketball.
As a category basketball is still not nearly as important in Europe as it is in the U.S.
And as Lauren mentioned the gains are somewhat concentrated in certain classic styles such as the Nike Blazer and the Adi Space Diver.
Performance players' shoes are not yet as large a factor in Europe as they are in the U.S.
although the Jordan Brand is growing nicely in several key European markets.
In any case we know a little about basketball business here at Foot Locker so we're excited about the shift.
The European prototype store concept that we introduced last year the Locker Room is still being tweaked with the U.K.
stores not yet producing the returns required to justify a major rollout.
However we remain cautiously optimistic that the banner will find more success once we open some stores on the continent where the promotional environment is not quite so intense.
Overall the Foot Locker team in Europe is doing a good job navigating through the macro environment keeping inventory fresh and relevant and maintaining a highly profitable business.
I don't want to forget to mention the very strong performance of our Direct-to-Customer business.
The consistently high top line growth we're seeing there accompanied as it is by strong profitability is a reflection of the terrific team we have in Wausau that drives the Footlocker.com and Eastbay business.
We continue to invest in our sites both in terms of providing entertaining engaging content featuring authentic lead athletes and in terms of developing and optimizing the sites for all sorts of devices from smartphones to tablets to old-fashioned PCs like John sometimes still uses.
We certainly see the digital business as having the potential to deliver the highest top line growth over the next several years and we intend to invest in the business to maximize its potential.
Lauren mentioned the big picture.
And while it is tempting to look back on our 11 consecutive quarters of meaningful sales and profit growth a record of which we are certainly very proud around here we're always looking forward.
We remain confident in the near-term prospects for our business.
However the economic picture in the U.S.
is far from rosy -- or of particular concern to me is the likely payroll tax increase slated to kick in at the beginning of the year.
Anything that takes money out of the pockets of our customers creates a more challenging business environment.
I certainly expect that our political leaders won't lead us over the fiscal cliff but we'll have to manage through whatever economic circumstances we find ourselves in.
We've produced solid results for the last few years in less-than-ideal economic times and we are fortunate that our key vendors Nike Adidas Converse Jordan ASICS New Balance Mizuno Reebok and Under Armour continue to develop innovative product and great ideas as fast as ever.
Our customers remain excited by the stories we're telling and the product assortments they find in our stores and on our digital sites.
Before we get to your questions I do want to pause again and on behalf of the executive committee personally thank the entire team at Foot Locker who delivered another stellar quarter and who as I said went to extraordinary lengths to keep our business moving forward after taking Sandy's best shot.
Fortunately the much bigger selling period in the quarter is ahead of us.
Our plans are in place.
And now it's time for us to execute and bring home another record year not just for our shareholders but for our customers and our associates as well.
Thank you.
We'll be happy to open to questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just to start off can you just give a little bit more color Ken on what you've seen initially through the Lady Foot Locker remodels? And if you can just give a little bit more color on SIX:02 and how it will differentiate from the remodeled Lady Foot Locker stores? The Lady Foot Locker stores much more apparel presentation and apparel-driven more performance-oriented not as much on the classics and fashion shoes.
And we've got 14 of them up and they are performing better than the overall chain.
But we're still learning and we've got to make sure we keep them in stock on the apparel that we've got the right presentation of the performance that we tell the customers what's there and the staff.
So while they're performing better than the chain some are performing much better and some are performing just at the chain.
So we're looking for more consistency as we have in our other remodels.
With regard to SIX:02 SIX:02 is really taking that and putting it on steroids.
It's a much stronger performance environment very apparel-driven be more than 50% apparel in terms of presentation.
And it'll be a much friendlier environment.
It's a bigger store so we'll have more space to tell stories and communicate to that customer the full assortment of what we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it was good to hear that merchandise margins were held flat in the U.S.
But if you can just give us some color on expectations going forward and especially talk about Europe.
Will we start to see some relief there from a merchandise margin standpoint now that inventories are clean? Yes.
Well as we said the expectation is that the dynamics we saw in the third quarter will continue into certainly the fourth quarter and we'll see about next year as we get closer.
But that dynamic is that we have lower IMU that we are managing to offset at least domestically with lower markdowns.
But in Europe we have wanted to keep the inventory fresh and have had to take some additional markdowns to do that.
So we would hope that begins to mitigate.
And certainly as we see some strength in basketball which is the beginnings for us maybe that will help us there.
But the dynamic of shipping revenue that -- I don't see that abating.
The customer loves free shipping.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just lastly could you speak about the trends in footwear versus apparel margins this quarter? Well I can tell you that we narrowed the gap but we are still not declaring victory with apparel margins ahead of footwear margins.
It's about as close as you can get but I want to see it for a while before we say we're there.
Yes.
And our next question comes from Omar Saad from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Ken I would love to hear a little bit more of your view on the -- your personal view on the macro consumer environment.
Heading into the holiday heading into 2013 there's such a lot of reasons you're talking whether it's natural disasters or the fiscal cliff you have some tax changes Europe crisis which is ongoing.
You guys don't seem to be really missing a step.
And I wonder if you're seeing your consumer show an underlying strength that may be kind of overcoming all these things going on out there.
I wonder if you've got any personal views on that or you're seeing variations across regions across consumer demographic.
Well we are not exempt from the rest of the world although the customer appears to be willing to spend the discretionary money they have on our products.
And part of that is we've got -- it's something that they love and makes them feel good.
And part of that is there's a lot of new and exciting things out there.
We do see particularly in Europe the more challenged countries are more challenging.
Greece and Spain are more challenging.
Germany France happen to be stronger countries because their economic environment is strong.
If I knew how it would play out I probably wouldn't be on this call.
But I'm assuming that we will work through this we have through the years and that -- or I should say the governments and the economies will work through this.
There will be some pain and we will suffer some of that.
But I'm also assuming that because of actions we've taken and how we plan and work and the product that we have that we will fare better than others.
Research Division</strong> Fair to say I mean as you talk about kind of increasing the capital commitments over the next 2 years which is pretty exciting.
And I don't know if it's clear whether it's more centered around remodels versus square footage growth.
But you have to have a certain level of confidence or comfort with kind of the ongoing economic environment given your willingness to really kind of ratchet up the capital spend.
Yes.
And as you look at our capital and the investment there are really 4 major things that we're focusing on.
One is digital which we look at as an opportunity for sales growth and to drive traffic.
Another is that shopping experience to make us more productive to drive higher sales which is one of the reasons quite frankly we've closed more stores.
And we will continue to close unproductive stores.
Improving our overall productivity to improve our profitability with systems like what we've done with our time management system but also warehouse management system and a better allocation system and in Europe where we can increase share and position ourselves for the future.
Because as you look at the business you got the near-term intermediate-term and longer-term.
And near-term we feel good about where we are with the product the promotions we have and the customer reaction to that.
We feel very good about that.
Intermediate-term we are making sure that we set ourselves up with the renewals that we're doing the remodels the product mix growth in our children's business and apparel and making sure that we have a strong position there.
And longer-term with by looking at what we're doing in digital by making sure that we're positioned properly in Europe when it comes back by being a player in team sports and with the new formats that we're testing and looking at.
So that we are positioned strongly in the near-term we make sure that we're going to keep that going in the intermediate and we will be an important player in the longer-term.
Our next question comes from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess Ken clearly on everyone's mind beyond just the macro uncertainty is I guess the state of this "athletic footwear" cycle.
Maybe you can just speak to again the visibility that you all have in terms of the product pipeline not only through holiday but into spring next year kind of what gives you confidence from a vendor perspective of what's out there be it in basketball or running that again sort of helps sustain this momentum that we've seen in the last couple of years.
Sure Eric.
There's 2 things.
So one is we keep talking about the cycle.
And there's 2 things going on.
One area is an athletic footwear trend and it's actually an athletic trend.
More people are wearing sneakers now than a year ago.
Next year more people will be wearing them and that benefits us.
There's also because of what's happening with health and wellness more people are being more active.
So the athletic apparel will also become more important.
So there's that trend.
There is definitely right now a cycle of elements that accentuate that trend things like color technology fashion just what people are doing the fact that the elite athletes are all doing well.
Those accentuate that trend.
And what we see is that it will -- there's a lot of great product ahead of us.
We see great new launches.
We see terrific -- based upon the key athletes we haven't taken the full benefit of some of those.
Obviously you've got people like Jordan and LeBron.
Now that he's really reached that elite level he's going to become more important.
Kobe continues to be an important factor.
But you've got the push of people like Rose and Kevin Durant that are going to add to the elite athlete.
You also have the importance of color and what we're seeing in color.
And so you have all of the key players and then players like ASICS and Mizuno that are really driving color.
You have new players like Under Armour coming out with great new shoes like the Spine.
And they're pushing very hard and they're pushing hard in apparel.
Reebok is working very hard to make sure that they are -- continue to maintain their relevance.
Adidas is going to be a stronger player not just in basketball and the classics but in running.
So all of those things we can see out into the -- from the near to the intermediate future look good.
And the customer responds to that newness.
Yes.
They like the newness they like the look.
And so from what we see and that's why I say the near-term the intermediate-term those are things that we have some visibility to we feel good about.
And we continue to position ourselves for the longer-term.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
I appreciate that.
And then just as it relates to the apparel business I understand that that continues to improve from a profitability perspective.
But maybe just stepping back where you feel like the assortment merchandising is -- again I hate to use the phrase sort of what inning we're in.
But how you feel like reassorting that mix focused more on branded focused more on performance product as you look across the fleet? Well I would say we're in the fourth chukker.
They play 6 chukkers in polo.
And we have built a much stronger position with branded but there's still things that we know we can build and expand upon both in terms of the fashion elements and the performance elements.
Where we have had the biggest challenge because we had a big private label business that was commodity and as we back off on that and go into some performance elements like our women's Actra business that takes some time to build up.
And so you've got the negative but you don't have the full positive yet.
And as we learn and develop new elements within each of the banners and they feel comfortable as Footaction we make sure we have the fashion elements of that.
In terms of Champs we just went through -- going through the shift in the NFL from Reebok to Nike.
That will take time to continue to grow and develop.
But that's going to be a tremendous plus for both of our companies.
So there's things going on.
We're nowhere near this being played out but we've made a lot of progress.
And we've seen it both in terms of sales it's been up in the 20% range every quarter and in terms of the improved profitability performance.
And our next question comes from Robbie Ohmes from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-up questions.
The first is on kids' just the amazing momentum there.
Maybe a little more comment on is that all style takedowns adult takedowns driving that? And how sustainable is that unbelievable comp trend and why? And then the second question would just be on running.
Maybe a little more on what you see there.
Could there be things in that pipeline you're speaking of that could get your running business to reaccelerate again? And maybe weave into that the Flyknit and the Nike+? I think some analysts have put some big numbers out there on how big the Flyknit could be and I haven't heard anybody saying much about that.
Okay sure.
On kids' I do think it's sustainable.
There's not a lot of places now for better kids' shoes.
And we are the place to go to get better kids' shoes because you've got kids and other people with kids.
All they want to wear is sneakers which is great because they'll grow up just wanting to wear sneakers too.
So we are positioned well there with our chains.
But it is the growth of takedowns and shoes that look -- that are more adult-like both things -- the elite athlete shoes LeBrons and Kobes and Jordans.
But also things like the Free are good shoes.
And so we're seeing that.
We're also seeing a resurgence in kids' of the classics.
The All Star or the Samoas are doing a great job in kids' because they're just looking for a good shoe that that the child can wear that's got some color has a good look to it.
And so it's a mix of both new and exciting takedowns and the classics.
But it's more I think that people are just paying attention to it both the vendor the retailer and the parents.
With regard to running I think running is going to continue to improve.
And as that improves we will continue to do better because we're not as penetrated but we're getting a lot better at it.
Now there are some exciting new things the Flyknit the reason I don't think anybody has talked much about it is there are not a lot of them out there.
But as the quantity grows and we're getting more in our stores and we'll have many more in our stores next spring we think that that's going to be a big shoe.
It's a terrific shoe and a great idea.
We're improving our performance in some of the classics in terms of running making sure like the Pegasus that we have a stronger position with that as well as the Lightweights.
We're building our position with people like ASICS and Mizuno.
They are doing a terrific job with their product and as well as Brooks and we're building our position there.
And then there are new people getting into the business in a stronger way like Under Armour and Adi.
And I think you put that together the specialist Nike strengthening their position significantly and some new players.
And I'm very optimistic and bullish on running.
Research Division</strong> Just last question Ken.
The Nike+ shoe how did that launch go versus your expectations? And is that expected to do well this holiday? And what do you see in that for next year? I think the Nike+ is -- it did fine.
But it's going to take a while for the customer to fully understand all the features and benefits.
I see the Nike+ kind of like the Free.
It took the Free about 4 or 5 years to become an overnight success.
And same thing is going to happen there that people -- I'm wearing a Nike+ band right now keeping track of my fuel points.
More people are going to care about that and look to track their mileage to compete against themselves or others.
And that's what the Nike+ and the miCoach both do.
And our next question comes from Stephen Glagola from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on the pricing side of it.
Heading into holiday and as you look to spring here where are we in terms of seeing some of the price increases from some of your vendors work their way through the supply chain? I would say we've had some and we continue to have some.
They've moderated significantly.
So they're working their way through.
And as cost go up or cost go down we're seeing the adjustments on pricing.
But we're working with the vendors to make sure it doesn't impact the sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess just looking at Black Friday here coming up any initiatives that we should look out for in the stores? We have a tremendous tremendous lineup -- it's actually the whole week.
And we have a press release coming out about noon and I don't want to preempt that.
But it will be some exciting things all during the week with launches from Jordan and Nike and Adidas.
And we've got Rose and Foamposites and Jordan Retros and new LeBrons.
So it's a big big week.
And our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Number one in Europe are you benefiting from -- like what happened in the U.S.
when the economy got really bad and you saw a lot of little guys close.
Are you picking up extra business because just basically the power that you have the size of your business the financial setup and everything? Yes.
We are picking up share.
We are seeing some of the small guys close.
We entered for example Czechoslovakia we bought half a dozen stores -- or I said Czech that shows you how old I am the Czech Republic.
And so there we're seeing the benefit if you will of the tough times.
Research Division</strong> And then you sort of said -- I've like 2 more questions.
You said it in general but the e-commerce by banner you commented how the banners were up 50%.
Can you give us a little more detail there? And then lastly can you talk about how many stores you plan to open in the fourth quarter? You talked about the closings for the full year and then how you're thinking about stores opening or closing for 2013.
Well the e-commerce by banner actually they're pretty consistent.
Our largest one is Footlocker.com.
But the growth is pretty consistent if you will that it's significant.
With regard to -- and I'll let Lauren talk about the specifics for this quarter.
But next year we have not finalized the plans.
But our focus is going to be on opening the right number of stores still looking at Europe is where we're the most underdeveloped.
But really closing and openings is going to be focused on productivity what's going to give us the biggest sales and profit growth.
And for the fourth quarter openings about 10 to a dozen.
Closures we've got about 25 still to go.
And our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So Ken you've got a lot of growth drivers out there.
And we can hear the confidence from you on some of these things like the new Champs shops the new Champs reimages.
Other things like the reimages at Lady Foot Locker CCS or the Locker Room sound like they haven't turned the corner yet.
Can you just talk a little bit about how you look at those initiatives and how you make decisions on a go-forward basis as to whether to keep pushing ahead versus pulling up anchor? Well we look at the performance and the numbers and then see if they're headed in the right direction or wrong direction and then do the economic analysis.
This is why we prototype test and then roll out or we don't roll out.
I think the Lady Foot Locker -- we're seeing the benefit of the Lady Foot Locker.
It's just we want to see more so we're going to continue to tweak and develop that.
Locker Room it's an unusual situation.
You've got to put it up against -- we opened it the way we did because of the Olympics.
But now we've got to get a better test and check the Europe because believe it or not the U.K.
is not all of Europe or indicative of all of Europe.
And then CCS is something that we continue to evaluate.
We had some good success in the first half.
We continue to make adjustments.
And it's been -- the challenge we have there is the industry's having a tougher time.
The whole skate-surf business is having a tough time.
But we will evaluate that and make the call at the appropriate time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask on gross margins.
How should we think about gross margins looking ahead a little bit maybe beyond just the near-term here and in 2013? And do you think 2013 is a merchandise margin-positive year? Obviously the brands have taken some price increases on you and maybe you haven't taken as much but -- or maybe you're just on a different schedule.
But do you think 2013 becomes a positive merchandise margin year? Thank you Mike for asking that because I didn't really answer that one.
Paul asked the question about the margins.
We still remain optimistic about merchandise margins from the things that remain in our control like the allocation system that we're investing in.
We did a test with that this year and we're pleased with the test results so we're going to go forward with that system investment here in 2013.
And certainly as we allocate the products better the first time around you get more full-priced selling which will support better merchandise margins.
So we still think that there's opportunity on merchandise margins.
The tree may -- the fruit may be higher up in the tree but it's still there to harvest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could sneak in one last question.
Ken your comment about technology as a footwear cycle driver earlier was interesting.
If you look at the data there's been some strong trends in the lower-priced running SKUs and that's probably helped by the popularity of Free.
And maybe some customers are -- that are just fashion customers are buying basketball or buying running last year.
But I mean couldn't you make the case that the pressure you're seeing at maybe some of the high end of running could be indicative of a slowing of the cycle if you're not able -- if the brands aren't able to push the customer towards the high price points there as they roll out new technologies again? I don't think so based upon what we're seeing with what's happening with Mizuno Brooks and ASICS.
So I think that -- and we have underplayed the technical running from Nike and things like the Pegasus.
And so there's an opportunity for us to step up there.
So there is a customer who's just in it for looks but there's also the technical customer.
And so the good news is we offer both because we've got Free and we've got Dual Fusion we've got Lunar.
So we're able to give the customer what they want.
And our next question comes from John Zolidis from The Buckingham.
Question on the plans to significantly increase potentially capital expenditures next year.
Could you just let us know when you're evaluating the deployment of capital what criteria you're looking for in terms of the return? And then how would you compare that return to share repurchase for example? If you can buy back your stock at less than 6x EBITDA you would get a nice return for your shareholders; how you contrast that with the investment that you're considering in the business? Yes.
Okay.
So all of our projects that we invest in be it new stores remodels et cetera we hold to hurdle rates of 13% IRR and 11% ROIC.
As we look to the results of these initiatives that we're testing and we're looking for returns at least that -- or should be actually quite a bit more.
But we just conducted a review with the board of the projects of the last couple of years and they were -- they are significantly more.
So we ran a number of different scenarios that consider these tests playing out a different way and that will drive different levels of capital investment and different timing.
We need to get through the holiday selling season to see how those tests perform.
And then we will evaluate where we head with which of those capital scenarios with our board in January.
So when we come back at first quarter we'll be able to give you much more insight into that.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Just one follow-up.
So after you go through this process on the store remodels the new formats et cetera then the free cash flow that you might still expect to generate would that be more likely to be applied to additional share repurchase? Well we certainly have room still to go on the program that's been authorized right? We've got a $400 million share repurchase program.
We only spent $94 million of it so far.
So if returning money to our shareholders both in share repurchase and dividend remains a priority our first priority is investing in the business to get after our long-term objective.
And our next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So I just -- I have a question regarding comps to date.
I mean as tragic as the events were I guess mid-single digit is very commendable in terms of the performance.
But is it fair to say that if you look at areas outside what was affected or maybe post the events sort of what's been going on is it fair to say that the comp performance is stronger than that? Or can you add any color in and around that if you exclude those areas in markets that were impacted just sort of what we're thinking about there? Well it's safe to say that the areas that didn't have stores closed for a period of time did better than those that did.
But yes I mean areas outside are better.
One of the things though to keep in mind we have demonstrated that during the real key selling periods we perform stronger the February back-to-school holiday because we've become more of a place people want to go.
It's not that we don't perform well during the other times we just perform better.
I think for the holidays we will perform better.
So I feel optimistic I'm not concerned about being up -- not that being up mid-single digits is bad but I think that that's an indicator that the business is still strong even with all of the noise around the election the fiscal cliff the storm Europe.
I'm looking at reports that are coming out most people would feel pretty good if they had mid-single digits.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes very fair.
True.
Switching gears Lauren for you for 1 second.
When you look at -- can you just walk though again the SG&amp;A and gross margin thought process for the fourth quarter? I caught most of it.
But can you just walk through that one more time for me? Yes.
So again this is what we're planning upper and mid-single digits on comps 50 basis points on gross margin.
And then the leverage that we get on SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter would be consistent with what we saw last year probably a little bit better than that.
Fourth quarter SG&amp;A has a challenge in that the malls are open longer hours and we've got to staff to that even though not many people like to get up and shop at 2 in the morning.
That does put a little bit of a damper on the leverage on SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you mentioned something about 40 basis points SG&amp;A.
Yes.
So that's really when you start to look at the effect of that extra week which will give us a lift in gross margin because there is no occupancy associated with that week and you get the benefit.
And we think it's worth another 40 basis points in SG&amp;A from fixed [ph] within that.
But just think about the 53rd week as about $0.10 from where we are.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the labor scheduling and the systems there just I guess you're very early in that process.
Just kind of anything that you've learned from it anything where you see the bigger opportunities from that? If you can maybe walk through your thoughts there it'd be helpful.
Yes.
Well it is early days for us in that it went in towards the end of the second quarter.
But it really gives us the ability to see how individuals perform by hour of the day and match that up with the traffic patterns so that we've got the staffing right.
So we're learning from that and making improvements in the scheduling process.
And remember you've got to train 3 367 store managers on how to get the best out of it.
Yes.
It not only does it allow us to make sure that we're staffed with the people -- the proper number of people at the right time it also makes sure that you have your best people at the right time.
So it ensures that you have productivity better productivity.
So it's not only an expense saver it's a sales benefit too.
And our next question comes from Camilo Lyon with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> So Ken my question relates to the price increases that -- really the understory you guys have been benefiting from this year pretty significant tailwinds to comp growth this year.
However those increases are expected to decelerate.
Can you just talk about what leverage you have at your disposal to make up for that deceleration? Well we are still even with the higher prices our units are up and our traffic is up.
Mall traffic I think depending on who you hear because I quit counting is flat to down a bit.
Our traffic is actually up.
Our units are up and our AUR is up.
So we've got all of those levers working.
And as one -- as price mitigates to some degree we think that that will help us with continued unit growth.
As we improve in apparel that will help us with unit growth.
So you look at things like apparel you look at things like accessories socks and hats that Lauren talked about and the development of our kids' women's business.
And we think that we've got a lot of different levers or continued increase in growth in running.
So I feel pretty good about that.
And sales are a function of traffic times conversion times UPTs times average price.
And we are working with the product to drive the traffic.
We've got a number of programs there to drive conversion.
We are working with better product so they hook up.
So not just okay $5 for 20 T-shirts it's making sure buy a $16 pair of socks or a $35 hat to go with those.
And AUR is just a part of that.
Research Division</strong> That's a great explanation.
I just wanted to have one clarification.
What would you say is the biggest opportunity amongst the elements that you mentioned units traffic conversion? Is conversion the biggest one given the systems that you're implementing? Yes I think conversion and that's something that I will tell you our stores organization is working very very hard on.
And the challenge is -- and it's why we put traffic counters in.
1/10 or 2/10 may not seem like a lot but it's a huge huge volume increase.
And so we are working hard and it's everybody working.
It's the people in the stores.
It's making sure we have the right product.
It's making sure that we're in stock in the right sizes.
Everybody plays a role in increasing conversion and we've really built that up.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just my last question is with apparel.
I think this was touched upon in previous questions but I wanted to hone in on where do you think the ultimate opportunity is on a margin perspective.
Well we continue to say that when you really get apparel right it should be a couple hundred basis points higher than footwear.
That's the long-term view.
Research Division</strong> And the path to getting there I guess what can help accelerate that trajectory? Well one of the big things is getting the right apparel.
I think we're better at that.
Second part is developing a more robust private label business.
We are working on that to go with the strong branded business.
And the third is better allocation of product.
And we're working right now to develop and put in place a better allocation system so that you have the right product in the right store at the right time at the right size at the right price.
And we are working on all 3 of those things and they will all help the apparel business.
It's been growing rapidly.
It's been improving the profitability.
It's just the shoe business keeps doing well too.
And our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> Ken you've spoken in the past about coordinating colors of footwear with apparel and hats and you're alluding to that.
Are you saying that this is a visible trend? Oh yes.
When we have a launch we'll make a T-shirt that will go with it and it'll be sold out.
Or we have a -- in fact we've got right now in Footaction there's a Adidas jog suit that's in kind of OD and there's a series of shoes 3 or 4 different shoes that go with it Forrester and Samoas and the All Stars.
And they will sell out.
People are buying the whole outfit.
I was in a store not too long ago and actually a guy was buying one from himself and a woman was buying one for her husband and they were matching up everything.
So that happens but what happens more is the kid comes in buys a pair of Rose socks or Nike Elite Socks really we've got 36 colors or buys -- again walking down the street a kid's walking by he's got on a Colorado Rockies hat in the middle of New York City.
I asked him.
I said "What team is that hat for?" And he says "I don't know but it matches my shoes." Research Division</strong> The other question I have is you're very explicit about your enthusiasm regarding the intermediate-term outlook for the product coming onto the market.
Does that intermediate-term outlook that you expressed include back-to-school next year? We haven't seen all of that product yet.
In fact some of our guys are just now working with the vendors.
So I can't speak to that.
But I will tell you that the competitive nature of our vendors is such that I believe they're going to continue to make sure that they have the best product there.
Research Division</strong> I agree with you on that.
Let me ask you one other thing.
Are you seeing anything out there that suggests that brown shoes might be picking up? No.
I'm not sure the brown shoe business is a business that at least in the United States I would want to be in.
Europe a little bit different situation in some of the countries.
But in the States all you have to do is look out on the street and see what people are wearing.
And it's moved from -- it's not just kids now.
There are a lot of adults that are wearing sneakers beyond those that work at Foot Locker.
The team has done a great job and really appreciate all they've done.
And I want to thank everybody for participation on the call and staying a little bit late but we wanted to get everybody's questions.
And that's all we have time for right now.
But we look forward to having you join us on the next call which will cover the fourth quarter and our full year results.
And that call is tentatively scheduled for the morning of March 8.
For now happy Thanksgiving and goodbye.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received yesterday's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'd like to welcome everyone to Foot Locker Inc.'s Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
Here with me this morning are Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Dick Johnson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ken Hicks Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Lauren will first provide you with the details of our fourth quarter and full year results that we announced earlier this morning and then later she will review some of our key financial assumptions going into 2013.
In between Ken and Dick will review some of our key accomplishments in the first year working towards our updated long-range plan and describe some of the exciting new store formats and other investments that are part of the increased capital expenditure program that we announced in February.
Let me start by setting the framework for today's discussion.
Earlier this morning we reported that Foot Locker produced earnings of $104 million in the fourth quarter or $0.68 per share a 28% increase over the $0.53 per share that we earned in Q4 last year.
As noted in the release these GAAP results in 2012 included negative impact of $0.05 per share for an impairment charge related to our CCS business.
On a non-GAAP basis without that charge our earnings per share were $0.73 in the fourth quarter.
The figures I just mentioned are based on a 14-week quarter in 2012 compared to the usual 13-week period and the annual figures we reported are based on a 53-week year.
The 53rd week added $14 million after-tax or $0.09 per share to our quarterly and annual results in 2012.
The non-GAAP EPS figure of $0.64 that we included in our press release this morning excludes the 53rd week and the CCS impairment charges.
This amount compares most closely to the non-GAAP results of $0.55 that we reported in Q4 last year and both figures are based on 13 weeks and exclude onetime impairment charges.
Unless otherwise specified ratios and margins that we discuss during this call will be based on the results excluding the 53rd week since this approach provides the best basis for comparison to both last year and the upcoming year.
References to comp sales are for the 13- or 52-week period ended January 26 whereas references to total sales refers to the entire 14- or 53-week period ended February 2 2013.
Before I turn the call over to Lauren I'll call out our strong full year EPS results.
On a GAAP basis we earned a record $2.58 per share in 2012.
On a non-GAAP basis excluding the 53rd week the CCS impairment and the onetime tax benefits we called out in previous quarters we earned $2.47 per share.
This was an increase of 36% over last year's record-breaking performance of $1.82 per share calculated on a comparable non-GAAP basis.
As we head it into and through 2013 it is against this non-GAAP EPS figure of $2.47 and the quarters which made it up that we will most frequently make comparisons.
Now here's Lauren to give you more of the details.
Thank you John and welcome to you all.
I'm pleased you could join us this morning as we discuss Foot Locker's 2012 results and our outlook for 2013.
The fourth quarter of 2012 marked yet another very strong performance for Foot Locker.
Starting with sales we produced a strong comparable store sales gain of 7.9% in the fourth quarter bringing our full year comp sales gain to 9.4% and our 2-year stacked comp gain to just under 20%.
In total sales have increased more than 20% over the last 2 years to $6.2 billion.
We have now surpassed almost all of the long-term financial goals we laid out at the beginning of 2010.
And we're making good progress towards the elevated goals we set for ourselves a year ago.
The one original goal we're still working towards is inventory turns.
We've improved turns substantially.
We are not yet 2x or 3x turn.
Turning to the Q4 details.
We had solid gains in all families of business with both footwear and apparel up high-single digits.
Men's footwear the basketball business was exceptionally strong with a comp gain of more than 20%.
We led off the quarter with a very strong Black Friday week and I do mean week since we delivered exciting new premium product in the days leading up to Thanksgiving as well as the days afterward.
It turns out that a lot of our customers wanted to wear their new kicks in events with family and friends on Thanksgiving Day itself.
The rest of the holiday season was also strong in basketball.
Big gains in Jordan marquee player shoes and classics.
Meanwhile our running business in the U.S.
remains solid with a low-single-digit gain for the quarter.
Lightweight running performed well particularly the Free Flex and Dual Fusion from Nike.
Technical running fueled by ASICS Mizuno Brooks and Nike also posted solid gains.
With basketball being the primary driver in the quarter it is no surprise with our U.S.
businesses that again led the way in top line performance.
Our direct-to-customer segment was up 18.2%.
Eastbay's comp sales up in the low teens and our store banner.com site up more than 40%.
Among the store divisions Kids Foot Locker was once again the top performer with a gain of almost 20%.
Champs Sports also had another double-digit comp gain in the quarter.
The Foot Locker division in the U.S.
produced a comp gain in the high-single digits while Footaction was up mid-single digits.
Foot Locker Europe posted a flat comp during the quarter with basketball styles up significantly.
Some of our customers in Europe continue to shift from running to basketball silhouettes.
The division with the most challenging sales result was Lady Foot Locker which had a high-single-digit comp loss.
As we transition our merchandise assortments to target the athletically active performance-oriented woman in her 20s and 30s we have produced gains in apparel and in lightweight technical and performance footwear.
However these gains are not yet offsetting the loss in certain classic and lifestyle shoes and opening price point apparel.
Ken will speak more to our efforts in this area in a few minutes.
Rounding out our sales results by division our other international teams performed well with both Foot Locker Canada and Foot Locker Asia Pacific producing mid-single-digit comp increases for the quarter.
Our comp cadence was as follows: November was up low-double digits; December was up high-single digits; and January was up mid-single digits.
Like many other retailers the end of January including the 53rd week was soft for us compared to the rest of the quarter.
We believe that we were impacted by the same factors that others have called out before us such is the initial pain felt by many of our customers from the payroll tax increase delayed tax refund checks shifts in the timing of product launches and maybe even some less favorable weather compared to last year.
Going against very strong 1-year and 2-year stacked comp we started February 2013 with comp sales that were up low-single digits and the strongest gain approximately 20% coming from our direct-to-customer segment.
Our store divisions excluding Lady Foot Locker were collectively up low-single digits.
Of note within that performance Foot Locker Europe was also up low-single digits.
Lady Foot Locker sales were down double digits.
Turning to margins.
We picked up 90 basis points on a 14-week basis to bring our Q4 gross margin rate to 32.9% from 32% last year.
The 53rd week contributed 50 basis points to that gain.
So on a comparable 13-week basis gross margin improved 40 basis points to 32.4% with leverage of our fixed occupancy and buyer's expense adding 50 basis points partially offset by a 10 basis point decline due to lower net shipping revenue.
Our merchandise margins were flat in the quarter with a lower initial market percent offset by a lower markdown rate.
Apparel margins improved over last year while footwear margins were essentially flat.
However we still have further progress to make before we can declare that we have consistently lifted our apparel margins higher than footwear.
Our SG&amp;A rate decreased in the quarter from 21.6% to 21.4% on a comparable 13-week basis with the extra week providing an additional 20 basis points of leverage for our reported SG&amp;A rate of 21.2%.
Expense dollars increased 7.7% on a 13-week basis with the biggest increases coming in store wages and marketing.
Depreciation and amortization expense ticked up to $30 million from $28 million reflecting the increased levels of capital spending over the last couple of years.
We have made a strategic decision to focus our future efforts in the skate category on our core online business.
We believe we have the scale and expertise to be successful.
As John mentioned we did incur a CCS-related impairment charge of $12 million pretax in the fourth quarter or $0.05 per share after-tax.
Approximately $7 million of this charge came from reducing the carrying value of the CCS trade name.
The remainder of the impairment charge was due to writing off the value of CCS store-related PP&amp;E.
We will operate the banner as a digital-only business and so we intend to close the 22 CCS stores in the current quarter due to their ongoing underperformance.
This decision will result in an additional charge in the first quarter of 2013 for such costs as exiting leases and severance.
Our current estimate is that this charge will be about $0.01 per share in Q1.
Our tax rate for the fourth quarter came in at 34% somewhat below our usual run rate of 37%.
The difference is primarily due to onetime adjustments in various jurisdictions such as an amendment to certain tax rules in Europe that allowed us to claim approximately $2 million in refunds from prior years.
It all added up to a record fourth quarter net income of $104 million or $0.68 per share on a GAAP basis.
The $0.64 per share we earned in the quarter on a non-GAAP basis in other words excluding the CCS impairment and the 53rd week is a $0.09 or 16% improvement on last year's equivalent non-GAAP EPS figure of $0.55.
For the year we earned a record $397 million or $2.58 per share on a GAAP basis.
On a non-GAAP basis we earned $380 million an impressive 35% increase over last year's non-GAAP equivalent of $281 million which had been the most profitable year in our history as an athletic company.
The power of our earnings translated into an even stronger balance sheet.
With operating cash flow of $416 million in 2012 we ended the year with $928 million of cash and short-term investments an increase of $77 million from a year ago.
This financial strength enabled us to announce last month 3 elevated capital deployment strategies beginning in 2013.
First our board increased our quarterly dividend by 11% from $0.18 per share to $0.20 per share equivalent to an annualized rate of $0.80 per share.
This is the third straight year with a similar dividend increase.
Second the Board of Directors approved a new 3-year $600 million share repurchase program extending through January 2016.
This new program replaced the company's previous $400 million program under which the company spent $129 million in 2012.
Finally the company announced a significant increase to our capital expenditure program for 2013 from $163 million in 2012 to $220 million this year.
Dick will detail these investments in just a moment.
Another investment we made at the end of last year was in positioning our inventory for the important February selling season.
At year end inventory was up 9% about the same as sales.
However much of this increase came during the 53rd week when we brought in fresh merchandise to support February sales.
Comparing our inventory level at the -- at year end to where we were at the end of week 1 of 2012 which is the equivalent week in terms of sales flow our inventory was essentially flat year-over-year.
In other words the increase in inventory at year end was entirely planned to support sales and does not represent a change in our objective of growing inventory at roughly half the pace of our sales increases.
We ended the year with 3 335 stores a decrease of 34 from the beginning of the year.
44 or roughly half of the 85 new stores we opened were in Europe while roughly half of the 119 stores we closed were domestic Foot Lockers.
Many of these closed stores were being used as clearance outlets.
And with fresher more productive inventory we can operate with fewer clearance stores.
We also closed 29 Lady Foot Locker stores.
With that recap with 2012 let me now turn the call over to Ken and Dick to describe how we achieved these results and review some of the exciting investment opportunities we see in our business.
Before we get to your questions I'll jump back in to discuss our annual and quarterly expectations for 2013 which get a little tricky with the 53rd week in 2012.
Ken? Thank you Lauren.
I want to start by acknowledging the tremendous success of the entire team at Foot Locker in 2012.
In 2011 we set several financial and operational records for our company including earning an unprecedented $1.82 per share.
With the momentum we built from executing our strategic initiatives in 2012 we were able to surpass that record by 36% achieving non-GAAP earnings of $2.47 per share.
At $6.2 billion we also reached the highest sales in our history as an athletic company.
We hit a record for sales per square foot at $443.
Our gross margin rate hit a new high.
Our EBIT dollars and margin rate at 9.9% were the best ever.
Conversion rates and sales per payroll hour were also the best ever.
Our EPS was the highest ever and our return on invested capital hit 14.2% making it the first of our current long-term goals that we have achieved.
It is an impressive list of accomplishments and I want to thank the team at Foot Locker for their focus and dedication to executing our 6 primary strategies which led to these excellent results.
First we kept a clear customer focus.
We developed product offerings that reflected the point of view of the core customer for each of our banners and we created store and online environments that enhanced these offerings.
We told powerful marketing stories such as the Foot Locker Approved campaign and the We Know Game campaign at Champs Sports which definitely resonated with each of their target customers.
The overall result was that we strengthened our leading position in basketball the hottest category in our industry while also maintaining strong running and casual businesses.
Second we made our stores and digital sites exciting places to shop and buy by delivering compelling product stories and strengthening the messaging by being consistent between the stores and online.
We also created strong events such as the Hottest Month Ever and the Week of Greatness that provided a more consistent sales performance throughout the year.
We also developed or tested new store formats for Champs Foot Locker Lady Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker and we created an exciting brand-new banner SIX:02.
We used new tools in our stores to increase productivity and customer engagement and we invested in improving our associate selling skills.
We provided excellent service in our digital channels including easy navigation timely shipping helpful call center responses and again good customer engagement features.
Third we delivered growth in most of our high potential business segments.
Apparel comps were up double digits in 2012 driven by compelling assortments that targeted each banner's core customer.
We effectively leveraged team additions capabilities working with the brands to create test and roll out a tremendous amount of graphic and attitude T-shirts that our customers enjoyed hooking up with their footwear.
The strength of our kids business was exceptional.
And it wasn't just the high teens comp in Kids Foot Locker we also delivered double-digit comp sales in almost every other format and region where we sell kids products including a 40-plus percent gain in digital sales of kids product.
We used a Go Big marketing campaign for our Kids Foot Locker business and it was a good description of what happened to our results.
We believe that we have an opportunity to grow our women's business significantly over the next few years and 2012 was a year of clarifying and refocusing our women's business across all of our banners.
The sales results for Lady Foot Locker were not positive for the year but we focused on improving the productivity of the overall women's business by closing underperforming Lady Foot Locker stores and refining our assortments across all of our banners.
As a result we did manage a flat sales performance overall in women's led once again by strong sales in our digital channels.
Fourth we expanded both our digital and store brands.
Our banner.com sales increases were very strong all year running up more than 40%.
We increased the coordination across digital and store organizations upgraded all of our mobile and online sites and enhanced our customer engagement features.
We stated that our goal is for individual banner.com sales to reach 10% of each banner's total sales.
Although we still have a distance to go to reach this goal we made significant progress in each of our banners.
Our direct-to-customer sales in total constituted 9.9% of our total sales.
This includes our biggest online banner Eastbay.com which was up low-double digits for the year.
In Europe we added a net 34 stores augmenting our presence in our current markets especially in malls and expanding in under-penetrated countries.
We also extended our European.com business to a total of 8 countries.
We expanded to 65 the number of Foot Lockers that include a House of Hoops with a target of adding 100 more over the next few years.
The productivity of these stores increases significantly with the addition of House of Hoops and we're exploring other vendor partnerships to test similar ideas such as the Adidas collective shops we recently opened in Footaction and the Nike R line in Champs Sports.
Even with all these accomplishments we recognized that many opportunities still lie ahead of us to increase our productivity further and give our industry-leading retail team even better tools to deliver exciting experiences and product to our customers.
Let me introduce Dick Johnson our Chief Operating Officer to tell you about the investments we plan to make in 2013.
Dick? Thanks Ken and good morning all.
As Lauren mentioned last month we announced plans to invest aggressively in these opportunities elevating our capital expenditure program to $220 million in 2013.
This is an increase of approximately $60 million over 2012.
Let me describe some of the dynamics of this plan.
First the amount of capital allocated to new stores and relocations is fairly similar year-over-year.
We intend to continue building our presence in Europe with 30 to 35 of the 73 new stores planned for 2013 targeted for Western Europe.
The division with the next biggest new store allocation is Kids Foot Locker in all of our markets with just under 20 new stores planned.
By far the biggest factor in the year-over-year increase in capital is due to doubling the spend on store remodels.
Development of the new format in Champs Sports started back in 2011 and we experienced significant upside to the productivity in the 11 test stores that we opened in 2012.
We plan to invest significantly more dollars in store remodels in 2013 and we will have touched more than 15% of the Champs fleet by the end of 2013.
Foot Locker also experienced very strong sales lifts in doors where we tested our new format which we call Willowbrook after the mall in New Jersey where we put one of the first prototype stores.
In 2013 we plan to remodel close to 10% of the Foot Locker fleet to the new model.
We will also be remodeling more Kids Foot Locker stores in 2013 based on the positive results in our 12 test stores.
Between these divisions we will be almost tripling the number of significant remodel projects we undertake in 2013 to well over 200.
We believe this strikes a prudent balance between capturing the potential sales lift as quickly as possible and being sure of properly executing the projects.
All of these projects generated investment returns significantly in excess of our hurdle rates which are a 13% IRR over the life of the project and an 11% ROIC at the end of the third year.
Along the way we have learned many lessons from testing the new formats in many different markets and different store configurations so we expect to make the rollouts even more productive.
We are still in the prototype development and testing phase in our women's business.
The SIX:02 and newly designed Lady Foot Locker stores are performing better than the rest of the chain but this does not yet prove the case for a larger rollout.
We will open 4 new test SIX:02 stores during the second half of 2013.
As we adjust the formula before committing to a rollout we are actually spending less capital this year on our women's business.
Another area with a significant increase in capital spending in 2013 is information technology.
Within this category the biggest single investment is for our new merchandise allocation system which underwent a successful proof of concept last year.
In 2013 we plan to invest in the thorough design and testing of this very robust and sophisticated software.
Full rollout is not expected until 2014.
To maximize the potential of this investment it is absolutely critical to develop the tool properly for our business.
Once in place we believe this system can be a key factor in further enhancing our inventory productivity by delivering the "rights": the right product in the right store at the right time in the right size and in the right quantity.
Also within technology we have allocated capital to upgrading our warehouse management systems in Europe and the U.S.
rolling out our time and attendance system to the rest of the globe and implementing various other projects to improve the in-store experience or reduce costs in our administrative processes.
Finally we continue to invest significant incremental capital in our digital businesses both mobile and online in order to drive the exceptional performance we have come to expect from our team at Footlocker.com.
Let me now turn the call back over to Lauren so that she can put all of these initiatives in the financial context of what we expect for 2013.
Thanks Dick.
We have another exciting year ahead of us and let me offer some insight into how we currently see it shaping up.
First we expect to deliver another double-digit percentage annual profit increase for 2013 driven by a mid-single-digit comp sales gain.
That profit increase is based off of the 2012 non-GAAP earnings per share figure of $2.47 that we discussed earlier.
We are planning comparable store sales to be fairly steady around mid-single digits throughout the year.
We used the standard National Retail Federation 4-5-4 Calendar and the 53rd week of 2012 shifts the weeks to keep them comparable year-over-year for comp store sales statistic.
For your own modeling purposes please note that reported annual and quarterly sales and profits are not shifted.
As a result there will be a significant variation in total sales and profit results by quarter.
For example starting with the first quarter we give up the high volume first week of February and gain the lower volume first week of May.
Historically the first week of February generates about $20 million more in sales than the first week in May.
By contrast the second quarter loses the lower volume week in May I just mentioned and picks up a higher volume back-to-school week in August.
As a result we believe this will add about $40 million to sales in Q2.
The opposite happens in the third quarter as we trade that back-to-school week in August for a relatively light week at the end of October.
We expect this to negatively impact sales by $40 million.
Finally the shift caused by the 53rd week in 2012 is not expected to have a significant impact on the fourth quarter as the last week of October and the last week of January are planned similarly.
Turning to margins.
We are planning for flat to slightly positive gross margin results in 2013.
We expect the downward pressure on our initial mark-up rate should be less intense this year than it was in 2012 but it remains a factor in merchandise margins.
We plan to offset the impact of a lower IMU by decreasing our markdown rate through the application of our business intelligence tool and continuing our merchandise flow initiative both internally and with our vendors among other strategies.
Our planned mid-single-digit comp increase should also provide the opportunity to leverage our fixed costs for the full year both within gross margin and SG&amp;A.
With the sales shifts that I just described however the first and third quarters will have relatively less leverage benefit and the second quarter will have relatively more.
Specifically in terms of SG&amp;A we intend to sustain our investment and marketing campaigns to help drive traffic into our stores.
As a proportion of sales marketing expense in 2013 is expected to be similar to 2012.
The other major expense lines are also expected to be similar in 2013 as a proportion of sales compared to 2012.
Some of you have asked about the impact on SG&amp;A of the additional capital projects we are undertaking.
We will add some staff and some expense in certain areas such as our real estate construction department.
But because they are dedicated to specific capital projects their salaries are mostly capitalized as part of the CapEx total of $220 million.
To round out the rest of the income statement depreciation and amortization is planned to trend up to approximately $122 million in 2013 as a result of the investments we are making.
Interest expense is expected to be about flat with 2012 at $5 million.
We are planning our tax rate at 37% and we are assuming FX rates to be slightly less favorable than last year with the euro around $1.25.
In addition to the 73 new stores that Dick mentioned we expect to open in 2013 we plan to close approximately 88 as we continue to address low performance stores and improve our key productivity measures.
With that review of 2013 let me turn the call back over to Ken to wrap up before we get to your questions.
Ken? Thanks Lauren.
As we said we set many records in 2012 with our financial and operational performance.
Last year started off with an absolutely terrific February and despite the economic and fiscal challenges we're facing this year I'm pleased to say that we successfully beat that performance this February with a low-single-digit comp gain.
The comp comparisons do get a little bit easier going forward.
And although it is early our March sales are off to a solid start up high-single digits.
We were planning an even stronger start to the year and we're monitoring some of the economic factors that we believe impacted business at the end of January and the beginning of February.
We'll make adjustments as necessary but our inventory is fresh and the product pipeline in basketball running classics and apparel is strong with exciting young players like Kevin Durant coming to the floor and innovative products like the Nike Flyknit and Adidas Boost ready to hit the market in a much bigger way.
It is a long year and we have a lot of hard work to do to deliver on the numbers that Lauren just described.
However our plans are in place our initiatives are underway and we have established our long-term goals in order to measure our progress.
We have our core values to guide us along the way.
We're done shaking each other's hands in celebration of last year and the entire team at Foot Locker is now focused and optimistic about our ability to deliver another record year in 2013.
Thank you.
Let's turn the call over to questions now please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification Ken.
So I think we got a March and a February number in there.
Can you just tell us where the quarter-to-date is on comps right now? We didn't -- we did not say that.
But the quarter up is right now is in the low singles.
We recognize we only have a couple of days of March and then the whole month of February.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
Okay.
So with basketball up 20% plus in the quarter I'm trying to figure out what were some of the headwinds that brought the core Foot Locker chain down to comps of about high-single digits.
Could you comment on some of the offsets there? Well running as we said is not up to that level.
And some of the classics did not perform at a stronger level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so you're rebooting a little bit on the women's side.
You've got some new test stores of SIX:02.
But I think it's safe to say even with that that the negative high-single-digit decline at Lady Foot Locker wasn't up to where you thought it'd be at this point after all the stores you've closed over the years in the Lady business.
Can you give us kind of an update on what's going on there? And it seems that -- what is causing perhaps a deceleration even at this point maybe a little bit on how you think the -- how you think about what gives you confidence in the opportunity to grow that significantly over the next few years? Well we obviously would like for the women's business to be stronger.
The challenges that we have in women is the Lady Foot Locker business is that we've changed that customer.
And you guys have heard me say before when you fire a customer they know immediately and it takes a while to bring a customer in.
Our overall women's business as we said was flat.
So we're able to make up that loss with the fashion customer in our other chains like Foot Locker and Champs.
We -- in Lady as we move to a more active customer a little bit older 25 to 35 that's taking time.
We also are going through a transition in the apparel area where we've sold a lot of cotton by the pound and now we're focusing on higher quality from both the brands and our own private Actra label.
And our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Within your guidance I wondered if you could give us any indication of what your ASP outlook is for the year.
ASPs have been favorable and we expect that that would continue to help support the -- that mid-single-digit comp gain guidance that we gave.
And the value that we're putting into products and what we're offering to customers supporting that and the other thing that is contributing to that is our shifts in apparel as we've move that business to a branded product away from that cotton by the pound that Ken mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I know it's early days but wondered if you had seen any change in the running category momentum since the new Flynit product has come out.
Well we've got Flynit featured in our RUN stores.
We expect a bigger batch of Flyknit to be in our stores in April and May.
So we expect to see some very positive movement with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is just on Europe.
Ken can you walk us through a little bit what you're seeing in Europe? How -- I know the comps were up low-single digits maybe how the environment has changed this past quarter versus the quarter before? Well we're seeing similar things to what we have seen in Europe from the point that the Northern Europe and particularly Germany continues to be strong.
Southern Europe has its challenges.
But what we think is that it's reached a level that's maintainable level.
We also have worked hard on our assortments there.
We've put in a stronger basketball and performance in running position and those have worked well for us.
So we're seeing the product mix help us.
We are strengthening our position in the markets that are not as impacted by some of the things going on.
And even in those markets we see kind of a settling out of the business.
The next question comes from Robbie Ohmes from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-up questions.
One of them was just given the slow start to February that you've seen and it sounds like March has gotten a little better but has the competitive environment changed at all? Is there any competitors that might have too much inventory? Have you seen any promotional activity kicking up this spring? And then I have a few follow-ups as well.
No.
We haven't -- we have not seen -- I think everybody has done a pretty good job managing their inventory.
And at this point we knew it wouldn't be great with some of the shifts and some of the things that happened.
And as we look to the pickup hopefully that will help clear through some of the inventory.
But at this point we haven't seen anybody taking any special action.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Lady Foot Locker commentary can you just help us understand your view of the timeline of firing the customer and then rehiring -- or hiring I guess the new one? When do you think the transition could even out and you could start to see Lady at least get to flattish comps? Well my expression would be it can start any time but I know it takes a while.
And I think we are starting to see and starting to hear anecdotally some very good things.
And we're looking at different markets and different stores and seeing some nice pickups.
Our technical running business actually is very very good.
The branded apparel business is very good but it's trying to offset a lot of 4 for $20 T-shirts that we used to sell.
And so these -- as these elements start to -- or continue to pick up and we anniversary some of the promotional elements and fashion elements we have we think we will start to see the -- or we should see the business start to improve.
And I think that will be -- as we move into the summer season and into the fall we'll start to have -- that customer will find us and we will benefit.
But it takes a while to bring in a new customer particularly when she's not used to shopping with you.
The thing that's been fortunate is that the fashion customer was -- has moved pretty quickly to the Foot Locker and Champs.
And I think the thing there that we're seeing is she was probably shopping in both places anyway so it didn't take her a long time to learn.
But we've -- we're working and I think as we anniversary in the summer and moving into the fall we'll start to see some benefit.
Research Division</strong> And last quick question.
You called out Nike a few times.
Can you remind us what your strategy is with Under Armour how many doors you have Under Armour apparel? And also what you see on the Under Armour footwear side right now and how you're thinking about it for fall this year? Well Under Armour is an important part of our strategy both in apparel and shoes.
And I think that we will continue to build and work with them.
We're one of their focal points with the shoe business running and basketball.
I'll let Dick talk about the number of doors but it is pretty widely distributed throughout the chain.
Yes from an apparel point of view we've got good representation in both Champs and Foot Locker in North America in the U.S.
And on the footwear side a few -- a little slightly fewer doors than the apparel.
But when you add in the cleated product that they sell out at Eastbay we have a strong representation with Under Armour footwear across the chains.
Our next question comes from Taposh Bari from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ken I want to ask you a question that I just can't get enough of from investors and that's around the perceived product cyclicality perceived being the magic word here but the product cyclicality of this business.
So before you got to Foot Locker this is a business that's averaged mid-single-digit operating margins modest comp growth which begs the question as we anniversary some of these impressive numbers it's all about what have you done for me lately right? So I guess the question is what's different in the business today versus the 2000s? Do you think this is a cyclical business product-wise or not? And if not if you could just kind of plead the case.
Well I think 2 parts to the question.
The first part is on cyclicality and there are cycles to any business.
But I think one of the things we're benefiting from is a trend versus a cycle.
There is a trend to people wearing more athletic shoes and apparel.
I don't know what you're wearing today but if you had your choice you'd be like me wearing sneakers.
And more and more people do that and that helps the business.
We are in a strong cycle because of the newness and what's being introduced.
And from what we've seen in the pipeline and what for example Kate talked about new product Flynit Boost color is unbelievable and that's selling.
That is building the cycle and supporting the strong upward trend that we have.
With regard to margins we have done our margins almost entirely on our back.
We haven't gone to vendors and asked for money or anything and we continue to work with them to make sure that we have the right product at the right time in the right place and the right quantities.
And our teams are working hard with the vendors on flow that has allowed us to be smarter about the inventory so we don't have to mark as many things down.
We also are working hard with different systems business intelligence systems and planning systems to do a better job.
And we think our allocation system will help us there which will reduce markdowns and increase the amount of full price selling.
The other thing that I think that we're seeing is this is a market where because of the trend that's occurred we've been more rational and people aren't having to cut.
Our vendors work very very hard to make sure that their product is competitive.
But at the same time that they have -- we're not competing against the whole world.
We have a certain product.
We have high quality high performance product and that's what the customer wants and it's allowed us to capture the pricing that we've been able to capture.
And the other thing with regard to margins is the importance of productivity.
It's one of the reasons why we continue to push on things that will improve the current stores rather than open a lot more stores because as you open and expand stores the productivity declines the profitability declines.
We're able at $440 plus a foot to be much more productive and deliver a better experience to our customers better -- and better profits to us and better sales to the industry.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask a second question.
I know you announced the dividend increase and the increased share buyback authorization a couple of weeks ago.
What's the board's general philosophy towards share buyback? I think the pattern has been about $350 million of free cash flow.
It seems like about 1/3 of that has been spent on dividends another 1/3 on buybacks.
You're obviously increasing your CapEx budget this year but you're sitting on about $1 billion of cash.
No debt if you exclude operating leases about 20% of your market cap.
I mean is there any desire to maybe get more aggressive there? I'm going to talk to your banker.
If you can exclude the rent that you pay as not being debt that's -- I like that banker.
We do have -- we have opportunities and we are we feel making good strides and increasing the dividend.
We've done it 3 years in a row at that 10% about level.
We have an active buyback program and the board's view is we evaluate that on an ongoing basis but we feel it's important that we use that as one of the tools to have to return value to the shareholders.
We also are putting in a number of programs.
And as Dick said we're seeing how they perform and the rollout so that it doesn't hurt the overall business.
If we can do it faster and more of them next year we can step that up and get even more of the chain at the high performance level.
So having that ability is very important and the flexibility to be able to improve our overall performance and productivity to improve our profitability.
Our next question comes from Camilo Lyon from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Ken I was hoping you could talk maybe a little bit about the -- in more detail around what you're seeing from the comp of the store remodels by banner give us maybe a little bit more detail around that and how we should think about how those stores are comping versus those untouched stores? Well we have stated in the past that the remodels have performed very well.
But one of the reasons why you do tests and have them in various parts of the country is when you do -- first do your prototype it gets a lot of attention and we want to make sure that it's real.
So we spread them out.
We have continued to see sales and profitability above the company average.
They exceed the hurdles that Dick talked about in his presentation and make it very attractive for us to be as aggressive as we are.
When you talk about 15% of the Champs chain and 10% of the Foot Locker chain in a year with the number of stores we have that's moving out reasonably aggressive.
And I think we've demonstrated that we will wait until we see something good.
We'll test it and see if it's good we will move on it.
So we're not giving the specifics because I think as it expands it probably won't be quite as good as the test stores.
But even if it's not quite as good we will more than clear our hurdles.
Research Division</strong> Would you care to talk about the directionality of those improvements over the untouched stores? Meaning are they 70% above the chain average or 30% above the average? Any kind of approximation would be incredibly helpful.
No.
Research Division</strong> All right had to try.
Okay.
And then with regards to the apparel margins I think Lauren you said that apparel margins were continuing to trend upward where footwear margins look like they have -- they were flat in the quarter if I'm not mistaken.
What inhibits apparel margins from helping drive continued merchandise margin or merchandise margin expansion above what you guys are planning in 2013? You absolutely got that right.
Right.
There's nothing that should prevent it.
If we can continue to deliver improved apparel margins and it should be significantly higher in branded apparel than branded footwear we think it's got upside to our margins in the long term.
But you got to get the offering right you got to get the apparel matched to the footwear and you have to really create an apparel offering that the customer knows you for.
Camilo there's a couple of things that are occurring that we're working on.
One is you have the issue with the level of private label.
Our private label because we shifted from promotional to more performance in the case of women's and more fashion in the case of say for example Champs sports gear we've had a drop and we haven't built that back up yet.
We are now starting to build back our private label and that will provide upward margins.
The second thing I think is as we improve our planning and allocation because one of the challenges that we have in apparel is the level of markdowns and that ranges from having the wrong colors or sizes or whatever.
And so as we continue to improve that and that's one of the things that we feel the new system will help us with in getting the allocation.
And it's not just the wrong size it's making sure some market's bright colors sell better than dark colors or a team or a player and those...
Getting -- hitting the seasons.
The season of taking markdowns at the right time.
Those things will help us a lot and we are still getting better at it.
And it's -- the great thing about retail is it's a business where you get to practice and you have to practice and we are still improving our abilities in the apparel getting up to the level we have in shoes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one final question on that topic.
What type of margin improvement from apparel is embedded in the guidance? I can't split it out for you that way.
But what we do believe that we've got as we said opportunity in markets through leveraging the fixed costs.
And we're looking at the merchandise margins where we're planning flat to slightly positive with that IMU pressure that we talked about being offset by lower markdowns.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like there's some embedded expectation of improvement in apparel.
But given the way you just said prior to that there's definitely room for upside from that perspective in that category.
That's right.
It doesn't happen overnight and we think it's got long-term opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's great.
And then just lastly on the components of the comp in the quarter.
I think it would be helpful if you were able to parse out ticket traffic conversion particularly as you got towards the end of the quarter maybe how that could've been impacted by some of the macro pressures that you discussed earlier.
Well I can't break all of those out for you by month.
But I could tell you as we said ASPs were up.
Traffic up that would have had some variance as you got into late January.
And conversion up and that conversion was up consistently throughout the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it really was the traffic that seemed to have caused a lot of the variation like it has for a lot of other retailers.
Well it certainly was a factor.
Our next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just for Europe what's your thought process in terms of the comp progression for 2013? You referenced mid-single-digit for the total company and the margin progression for Europe given that you had some margin pressure there.
You dealt with some apparel issues there.
Just sort of how we think about Europe as 2013 plays out.
We know it's a challenging environment.
We're pleased with where they are now.
But I will tell you that our plan is low-single digits right now.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you expect the margin profile to be better in Europe year-over-year? The year-over-year...
Margins in Europe continue to be stronger than domestic.
So if that hasn't changed year-over-year yes slight pickup.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Lauren for you just on the comment about double-digit earnings growth for the year.
Any -- as you parcel that out by quarter just given the nuances in terms of the timing of sales and the week shifts are there certain quarters where you couldn't obtain double-digit earnings growth? Or is it pretty consistent? Follow that logic that we laid out for the sales challenge that we got with the shift.
So first quarter third quarter double digit would be aggressive.
Second quarter fourth quarter that's where you're going to see that benefit.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I have was just on the new stores the remodels.
Are you guys anticipating any benefit in '13 either from a -- I don't know if those new stores are now in your comp base or you take them out of the comp and they're titled as new stores but are you anticipating any benefit in '13 from them whether comp or margin? Is that in your thought process at all? You're saying the remodels? LLLP Research Division</strong> Right.
In other words the remodels the Willowbrook -- the stores that are in the Willowbrook Mall the Foot Locker and specifically the Champs the 10% 15% you plan on doing.
Is any of that in the '13 number in terms of what you're seeing? Yes we built our plan around the expectation of these remodels performing -- Ken mentioned that they outperformed the fleet.
So yes it's been included in our plan.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are they in a -- Dick are they in the comp or are they...
They're comp stores yes.
Our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about the SIX:02 concept and what the -- you opened up a few new ones.
It sounds like they're going to -- might vary from the original.
Can you talk about what you've seen as good what you see that may be challenging there and sort of where that is on the continuum of sorting out what really is going to work for Lady? Well we've gotten very good feedback on the stores.
And the -- some of the -- one of the stores is doing phenomenal one is doing what we thought and one is not doing quite so well.
So that's why be run tests to get a more consistent read.
And but in all of them the customer reaction has been strong.
The things that we're looking at and trying to understand is how we can make sure that we better show the brands that we have get more credit for the strong shoe position we have make sure that we're able to provide an environment that the customer feels excited about and comes back to.
So we're talking about making -- doing some things to make it friendlier.
So we're not looking at changing wholesale changes to the format.
It's gotten some good reaction and we know that it can work.
Now we're in a position where we want to make some adjustments and then test and see how those work and make a determination how fast we could expand it.
Research Division</strong> And then can you give us an idea -- I mean you might have said it but by week in -- starting sort of like by week of how the comps were in like week -- in the last week of January how they rolled through to today just to see how the effect of the tax refunds are maybe evolving here? What we've said was that the end of January was tough.
February was also...
Start of February was tough.
Start of February was tough got better.
And that March is up high-single digits.
So that's kind of the transition.
Research Division</strong> Were you up -- I mean could we assume that you were up in that high-single digits of the last week of February as well and the front half was pretty -- or the first week was pretty terrible? We're not by week.
It -- the -- given the...
Research Division</strong> This is just an exceptional.
This is an exceptional time because of this -- this strictly is tax refunds that's why I'm asking the question.
It got -- February got better as we went through the month and it ended up in the low high-single digits.
But it did improve and we really -- March is all of 5 days old so we've got -- we fortunately have seen some nice results.
But that's what I say.
It'll be probably later in the month before we get a real good feel for all of the things that are happening.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly there's been a lot of conversation out there about the running business.
I mean you saw low-single-digit increase in the running business.
When you look at your -- when you're looking at the year going forward and thinking about that business can you give us some color on that? I think the running business is a good business and it will perform in the low- to mid-single digits which based upon the size of that business is pretty good.
We don't see that being as explosive as basketball.
But as some new ideas like Flynit like Boost like what people -- like Under Armour are doing the continuation of the strength of lightweight from people like Nike the technical people continue to do well in -- with Mizuno and Brooks and ASICS all of which are very strong for us we think it's a good solid business with good solid growth.
We'd like to see it grow at the chain.
Some people have got some concerns about that.
I don't see the concerns about the running business that other people do.
I think it's a good solid business.
It's not -- we would all like to have businesses that are up in the double digits.
But what makes the world work and go are those businesses that perform solidly on a consistent basis.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a few follow-ups on the remodels.
Lauren could you speak -- or Dick or Ken could you speak to the timing of the remodels and the system investments this year just so we could have a better idea about SG&amp;A spend throughout the year? Second could you just speak to the expectation kind of going forward? Should we think about 200 remodels or so a year? Completing 15% of Champs again in 2014 for example.
And then just lastly is the amount of investment this year relatively fixed? And therefore if there is upside to the top line we'll be -- will we be able to see that flow through to the bottom? Yes.
So the first question was about the timing of the construction progress -- projects.
We skewed out if you will to the first half of the year.
It would be much of the activity happens in Q2 a fair amount that happens in Q1 but Q2 would be the highest point of it.
You want to get the work done before you're into back-to-school season and certainly you're not going to be in there on holiday so that's why it's front half.
The payment right follow that cadence so you're paying as you go through but you're making your last payments at the end of that.
The allocation of technology investment that would be something that is more ratable over the year.
It's not that that sticks out in 1 quarter.
Your second question was around whether or not that we could continue with this in an elevated capital program.
Well yes if these continue to deliver as we have seen in the testing and expect them to deliver as we roll out absolutely which gets back to our earlier conversation about maintaining our flexibility with our balance sheet to be able to do that and we see that we could.
And then your third question again if you could repeat that.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if your investments this year are relatively fixed in regards to the ability for additional upside from a top line standpoint to flow through the bottom line.
Is your question could we do more projects this year than what we've laid out? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Would you flex higher if you -- the remodels that you roll out 1Q 2Q would you potentially flex that higher? Are there other projects that are being considered to maybe add towards the end of the year? Just anything in regards to the -- I was just looking at your SG&amp;A spend this year as kind of planned.
In other words what -- on a mid-single-digit comp what is SG&amp;A dollars expected to rise for the full year? Yes.
Okay.
So to answer the question about the projects no I wouldn't see us putting more in than we've already described at the $220 million because as you can imagine that takes a lot of planning on the part of the construction team and the leasing team to accomplish all of that.
But yes we expect as we said to get leverage out of the mid-single-digit comp on the SG&amp;A.
So yes we planned the expenses and as we -- you see further upside to sales if we see that.
Yes you would expect to get greater leverage because we're not going to be plowing in more dollars into SG&amp;A.
So we've established our operating plan inclusive of marketing plans as we said are flat as a rate of sales year-over-year.
So yes there's upside to mid-single digit.
You'd get greater flow-through.
Our next question comes from John Zolidis from The Buckingham Group.
I know we're running long so I'll keep this quick.
One I wonder if you can talk a little bit about why kids' is so strong.
And then secondly are you guiding to operating margin expansion 13 x the items on the 53rd week? Just a little confused about how we get to double-digit earnings growth on the mid-single-digit comps taking into account the other color you've given us on gross margin and SG&amp;A.
Yes I can take the -- to how you model.
Yes off of a non-GAAP number of $2.47.
That's how we're modeling that.
So that's x the 53rd week and it's x the impairment.
So you are expecting operating margin expansion? Yes.
Our kids' business across all of the banners that sell kids' just continues to be strong.
A couple of the key items there's great takedown product all the exciting things that Ken talked about from color to technology to marquee player shoes takedown -- marquee player shoes and takedown formats are working well and importantly in our Kids Foot Locker chain we've expanded our apparel significantly.
We've moved into a brand of representation of apparel there that's very strong.
So I think the ability to hook up T-shirts fleece pieces shorts with the sneakers to accessorize it appropriately especially in the Kids Foot Locker stores then across the other banners is just a strength of kids' footwear right now from a matching big brother or dad's footwear is really very strong.
The other thing and it goes to my comment about the trend I don't know how many people on the call have kids.
You aren't buying a lot of penny loafers and oxfords for your kids anymore.
In fact we will -- we -- Easter is a good time for us because instead of buying a kid of a pair of black dress shoes that they can wear to church the parents say what the heck give into him I'll buy him a nice pair of sneakers and they'll wear a nice pair of sneakers to church and then they can wear them beyond the 1 day.
So there's -- it is definitely a trend.
And all of those kids wearing sneakers all the time are growing up.
And there'll be use to them and they will see no sense in wearing uncomfortable brown shoes as they get older.
Our next question comes from Seth Sigman from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify on the merchandise margin.
Ken given the drivers you talked about plus Europe now improving which was a headwind last year I mean can you maybe quantify what's embedded for merchandise margins in that flat to slightly positive margin guidance for the year? Modest basis point improvement.
We as we said we've got IMU pressure which we think we can offset.
We don't see -- so now moving off of merchandise margin onto total gross margin we don't see the decline in net shipping revenue going away.
So that's still a headwind.
But we do still believe on mid-single digit that we get leverage out of the fixed costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just shifting to some of the online investments that you talked about for 2013.
I mean can you maybe just elaborate on that? Are there any major changes planned that we should be watching for or kind of just view them as minor enhancements for the year ahead? Well we continue to update the site and make it a more engaging place to shop.
We are also working hard on things like buy online reserve in-store inventory lookup for the customer buy online pay in-store.
All sorts of different mechanisms that connect the stores and the online giving our associates tools in their hands where they can test and communicate with the customer.
But the real thing is when you look at the content that's involved and working with the vendors and working with the stores that there's tremendous content that gets the people to the site to learn about what Katie wore last night or see how I compared against the latest kids on the combine to understand when the launch is.
And some of the marketing efforts that we're doing we're working on a consolidated database between all of our locations so we know we understand that customer and can really can be smart when we communicate with them.
And the whole big data thing that you've read so much about recently that gives us a terrific position with the customer and communicating with them.
And so there's no -- you're not going to look and see geez it's a whole different site.
What you're going to see is an evolution of things that engage that customer and allow us to better communicate and serve them.
Your next question comes from Omar Saad from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on the IMU kind of expectations.
I know there've been a little bit more of a pressure on that -- from that front in 2012 and it sounds like you're expecting that to ease a little bit.
Can you just talk about some of the drivers behind the IMU pressure you saw in '12 and where specifically do you see some expectations of that easing a little bit in 2013? And then I have one follow-up question.
Well the pressures were that the costs were rising for a number of reasons and they were rising faster in some degree than the retails.
The pressure on the costs have mitigated somewhat.
They're still there but they've mitigated.
And we continue to work and anticipate those with the vendors and have say what can we price this shoe at and still make sure we can get the volume from it.
So it's -- the pressure is the continued rise of the cost of the product and making sure that we don't put the product out of the price range of the customer.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Ken on a related topic how do you think about -- pricing has been a little bit of a sales driver the last few years.
Where -- what kind of if you look across the chains kind of on average what your price increases ranges have been last year versus what you're expecting this year and going forward? We haven't put out the percentage.
But a low-single digit percentage price increase is one that the customer has shown the ability to absorb and allows us the ability to absorb the cost increases.
So the customer says when a shoe goes up significantly the volume drops.
That's economics 101.
When it goes up modestly the customer continues to buy it.
You also have to understand whether it's a new shoe and you've changed the features versus whether it's just I'm raising the price on the shoes that's been there a long time.
And so those are things that we work very closely with the vendors with and think through what makes sense.
Our ASPs increasing are -- there's a couple of factors that are involved in that.
If we're doing more full price selling you've got higher average selling price.
And the fact that our apparel business has become more branded unless multiunit 5 for $20 T-shirts that has raised prices in apparel.
And as that becomes a bigger part of our business that contributes to higher ASP.
Okay.
I think we have time for one more question.
Our last question comes from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess it's been asked a few different ways but I'm going to try again here.
In terms of possibly getting a quantification of the -- what's embedded in the mid-single digit guide for this year what type of comp lift do you expect from the remodels? Is it possible to get that? Well we've -- they will grow faster than the store.
Remember mid's a reasonable range.
They will grow faster than the store but it is 10% and 15% of a portion of the chain and it also is only part of the year.
So you take a 10% to 15% of a portion for part of the year it is not a huge number of this year.
As we continue to grow and expand it it becomes a much bigger factor.
But this year it's a lot of mathematics when you look at multiply 10% times a fraction times a fraction.
And it's a reality that the project takes time.
So there'll be some period of time days while the store...
And some -- yes some of those stores that's exactly right particularly with the Champs stores.
The stores are closed.
So we lose sales for those days that it's closed.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's really helpful.
And then Ken I guess a broader more strategic question.
Given the perceived cyclicality of a product pipeline in the business and sort of the belief in the market right or wrong of this has been a great comp story in driving structural margin in the turn how do you think about again just strategically starting to shift more towards a unit growth? And obviously Europe is probably going to be the driver of that.
Is there an ability to accelerate that exploit a little bit of the market dislocation over there to start to transition to some actual unit growth? Yes we think that Europe is a place that would provide significant unit growth and that's why we're expanding there.
We also think that some of our banners provided opportunity where we pulled back on for example in the kids' business.
That's our second area for unit growth.
We also look as we get women's -- the women's business and understand that what format works best for that that we can turn around and start growing those units.
So you've got those 3 different things coupled with the significantly improved productivity that we would want to get over time from some of the actions that we're taking that there's a continued opportunity for growth.
Okay.
That's all we have time for today.
Thank you again for participating on the call and we look forward to giving you an update on our next call which is tentatively scheduled for May 24.
Thank you and goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Foot Locker's First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
This conference call may contain forward looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10 K or Form 10 Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes on such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to Foot Locker Inc.'s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Earlier this morning we reported first quarter net income of $138 million or $0.90 per share.
These results include approximately $1 million of transaction costs related to our pending acquisition of Runners Point Group which we announced earlier in the month.
Our first quarter EPS on a non GAAP basis excluding this cost was $0.91 per share.
This resulted in an increase of almost 10% over the $0.83 per share that Foot Locker earned in the first quarter of 2012 and represents the highest quarterly profit the company has ever achieved as Foot Locker Inc.
Our prepared remarks will begin this morning with Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will review our first quarter financial results in more detail.
After Lauren Dick Johnson our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer will provide an update on several of our key initiatives and comments on the pending Runners Point Group acquisition.
Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will then provide additional insight into our business strategies and major trends we're seeing in the athletic industry.
In order to have plenty of time for your questions after our prepared remarks let me turn the call right over to you Lauren.
Thank you John and good morning to you all.
We are quite pleased with the strong start to 2013 that we reported this morning.
Our non GAAP earnings of $0.91 per share represents a solid improvement over the first quarter result we posted in 2012 especially in light of the relatively slow start in February we told you about on our previous call and the sales shift related to the 53rd week last year both of which challenged our leverage opportunity.
Reviewing the results in detail we reported a 5.2% comparable sales increase in the first quarter with a 3.8% comp increase in our stores and an increase in our Direct to Customer segment of 18.2%.
Our total reported sales increased 3.8%.
We operated slightly fewer stores this year compared to last but the primary driver of the 1.4% difference between our comp results of plus 5.2% and the total sales increase of 3.8% is that 53rd week sales shift I just mentioned.
This difference equates to the $20 million shift in Q1 that I mentioned during our call in March.
Recall also that our sales both comp and total are impacted as we temporarily shut stores for some of the major remodels we are currently undertaking.
Dick will touch on this during his remarks.
We noted on our previous call that February's comp gain was in the low single digits.
Largest comp gain rose to mid single digits despite losing a full day of sales compared to 2012 because of the Easter shift.
And April came in at high single digits.
The April result was encouraging given that all of the Easter selling shifted into March and the weather remains stubbornly cold in many of our markets here and abroad during the first quarter.
Our domestic store divisions posted a mid single digit comp sales gain led by Kids Foot Locker which was up almost 20%.
Also with the net overall comp sales gain was a high single digit comp decline at Lady Foot Locker which Dick will address during his remarks.
Foot Locker Europe and Foot Locker Canada posted low single digit comp gains while Foot Locker Asia Pacific came in with a mid single digit comp gain.
Within the 18.2% comp gain in our Direct to Customer business Eastbay was up low double digits.
Our store banner.com businesses continued their very strong performance with sales up almost 50% while CCS.com was down high single digits.
Turning to families of business.
Footwear had a solid mid single digit comp gain with children's footwear up double digits and men's footwear up high single digits while women's footwear was down mid single digits.
Apparel was up in the quarter as well although not as much overall as footwear.
In the U.S.
we continued our momentum in building our apparel business with a mid single digit increase led by especially strong digital sales.
In that channel apparel was up double digits in men's women's and kids.
Internationally however apparel sales were down although I should add that our international apparel margins were higher compared to the year before especially in Europe.
As we mentioned at this time last year some of those sales in Europe a year ago were markdown driven strategically executed to keep our inventory fresh.
With that segue into gross margin let me say that we were pleased to be able to produce a strong margin rate of 34.2% in the first quarter an increase of 20 basis points.
We gained 20 basis points in merchandise margin and another 10 basis points in leverage of our fixed cost.
We gave back 10 basis points related to lower shipping and handling revenue.
In addition to the 10 basis points of leverage we picked up in gross margin we delivered 20 basis points of leverage in SG&amp;A as we did a solid job flowing incremental sales dollars to the bottom line.
We continue to drive productivity increases in our key internal metrics such as sales per square foot and sales per payroll hour.
And our 19.2% expense rate in the quarter is the best it has ever been as an athletic company.
As John mentioned included in SG&amp;A this quarter is approximately $1 million of transaction costs related to the Runners Point acquisition.
Please note that there was also $1 million expense related to Runners Point included in SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter last year which we have not previously called out.
One line item that has increased is depreciation which increased $2 million to $31 million.
This increase relates to the higher levels of capital spending undertaken in the last couple of years.
A charge that did not occur in the first quarter that we indicated on our previous call was likely to happen relates to the closing of the 22 CCS stores.
Due to the timing of liquidating inventory and converting many of the stores to other formats those stores have not yet closed.
However the plan is now firm to close or convert them in early June.
As a consequence the $0.01 a share charge related to severance and exiting leases will be incurred in the second quarter.
On the previous call we said we intended to close 88 stores in 2013 along with opening 73 new stores.
The 88 figure did not include the 22 CCS stores.
So total planned closures for the year are 110.
Similarly the estimate of opening 73 stores did not include conversions of CCS stores into other formats.
So our current estimate of new store openings for 2013 is now 86.
So far in 2013 we are largely on plan with both openings and closures finishing the quarter with 3 321 stores down 14 from the end of last year.
Foot Locker Europe continues to open new stores and now operates approximately 600 doors.
In the U.S.
the biggest store count change continues to come out of Lady Foot Locker which closed 21 doors in the first quarter.
We will continue to work with our landlords to close underperforming stores throughout the year to improve the overall productivity of our fleet.
Turning back to Q1 results.
Our tax rate came in at 36.1% slightly better than the 36.4% rate last year as we settled certain tax audits that allowed us to release some of our related cash reserves.
The overall result for the quarter was non GAAP net income of $139 million the highest level of earnings in any quarter not just the first quarter in our history as an athletic company.
A result which we the entire team at Foot Locker are of course very proud of.
Moving on now to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $1.1 billion of cash and short term investments and an increase of $196 million from the end of Q1 last year.
Our first quarter typically represents a peak in cash flow generation with cash balances subsequently declining until we get to the year end holidays.
This year of course we will also use some of our existing offshore cash to purchase Runners Point Group.
And as we noted in our release about Runners Point Group we did not repurchase any shares in the first quarter due to the ongoing negotiations related to that transaction.
However we intend to start the $600 million program in Q2.
We did just recently pay our first $0.20 dividend which represents an 11% increase over the previous dividend rate and we are well underway in executing the elevated capital spending program that we detailed on our previous call.
Focusing now on inventory.
It increased 2% while total sales increased 3.8%.
Our inventory remains fresh and productive and we believe it is well positioned to support the mid single digit sales gains we continue to plan for the rest of the year.
In fact excluding Runners Point which Dick will comment on in more depth in a moment our outlook for the rest of 2013 remains largely unchanged from what I described in our previous call.
Keep in mind that we continue to base our year over year comparisons on our 2012 non GAAP results excluding the 53rd week.
Earnings on that basis were $2.47 per share in 2012.
To review we expect modest improvement in gross margin 20 to 30 basis points driven mainly by a leverage from higher sales but with the opportunity for some gains in merchandise margin as well.
We also believe we can lever higher sales to produce a lower SG&amp;A rate for full year 2013 with the second quarter having the best opportunity for gains due to the 53rd week sale shift and the third quarter being the most challenged.
Our estimates of depreciation in 2013 is now $126 million up slightly from the $122 million I mentioned on the last call.
The full year tax rate is estimated to come in slightly below 37% excluding any additional audit settlements that may occur.
Let me now turn the call over to Dick Johnson to review the progress of some of our key initiatives including the pending acquisition of Runners Point Group.
Thanks Lauren and good morning.
Let me start with Runners Point.
We are all very excited about this opportunity to acquire a profitable fast growing athletic business in a strong market.
The Runners Point Group operates multiple banners the most significant of which are Runners Point and Sidestep and we believe we can help the current management team segment the market for the different banners we will have in Germany and adjacent countries just as we have done successfully in North America.
Over time we will also begin providing them with world class operational support to help them pursue their growth strategy.
Once we close on the transaction and can really get in there and analyze relative productivity on a store by store basis we may adjust the banner profile perhaps changing some Foot Locker stores to Runners Point or Sidestep stores or vice versa.
We certainly appreciate the unique brand value their banners have built up in their markets so we intend to operate multiple banners in many German markets just as we do with Foot Locker Champs Sports and Footaction in the United States today.
Down the road we also plan to explore the potential for banner growth in other German    other European markets outside Germany.
For the consolidated Runners Point Group comp sales grew almost 9% in calendar year 2012 led by a 63% gain in digital sales by Tredex their e commerce subsidiary.
Tredex accounted for more than 10% of RPG's overall sales of EUR 197 million in 2012.
That 10% figure for digital sales as a percent of total sales is a goal we have for our own digital businesses.
We have aways to go towards our goal especially in Europe.
Due to comp gains as well as store count growth RPG sales in total increased about 18% for the year.
The acquisition will solidify our position in Germany.
And once the transaction closes Germany will become our leading European market surpassing Italy.
As I said at the beginning of my remarks RPG has been profitable and we expect it to remain so as we added to our already profitable European portfolio.
Thus we believe the acquisition should be slightly accretive in 2013 excluding transaction and integration costs.
Just how accretive it will be depends on many factors not least of which is how long merger control review takes before we can actually close the transaction.
Let me turn now to providing you with updates on some of the initiatives of our existing business.
As Lauren mentioned we are on track with our elevated 2013 capital spending program of $220 million.
We've already completed almost as many major remodel projects this year as we did during all of last year.
And during this current period between Easter and back to school the pace has picked up even further.
Our real estate team is doing a great job coordinating all the projects and figuring out how to roll out the new formats even more efficiently and quickly.
So far knock on wood everything is going smoothly on the construction front and the performance of the completed projects continues to more than meet our hurdle rates.
One of our highest potential growth segments remains the opportunity to expand women's footwear and apparel to play a more significant role across all of our banners and channels.
Currently though our women's business remains a work in progress.
Our Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02 banners are continuing their efforts to attract the athletically active women in their 20s and 30s who is interested in style fit and performance.
The younger school age customer who is more interested in fashion is still finding her way to our other banners such as Foot Locker and Champs Sports.
But unlike the fourth quarter when our women's sales in these other banners were up enough to offset the decline in Lady Foot Locker in Q1 this was not the case.
One positive is that our margin rates in both women's footwear and apparel are higher than a year ago as we have gotten more of the right merchandise and the right stores to serve our various female customers.
Another positive is that our remodel Lady Foot Locker doors and larger SIX:02 doors are significantly outperforming the rest of the Lady Foot Locker chain.
It encourages us that we are on the right track.
However we have many lessons to apply and many detailed aspects of the business to improve before we can tell you that we have found a sustainable profitable formula that will determine our go forward strategy for Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02.
We're still deep in the testing mode and are going to get the business right before committing a lot of capital to it.
One area we are currently hitting the cover off the ball is our Kids business.
As Lauren mentioned it is the fastest growing family of business with footwear up low double digits and apparel up a lot more than that.
We have created a more kid friendly environment in our Kids Foot Locker stores with a Pro Zone and Hero size footprints to help entertain our young customers.
We are expanding and diversifying our kid assortment in particular by emphasizing branded apparel and accessories and are offering more casual and running footwear style for kids.
For example we have a Crayola inspired assortment from Converse made just for kids.
At the same time our vendors and are continuing to provide more and more innovative takedowns of the adult Hero shoes.
We expect that we will have remodeled over 20% of the Kids Foot Locker fleet by the end of the year to take advantage of the momentum we see in this business.
With that update of some of our most important initiatives let me hand it over to Ken to provide more color on our company and the athletic industry.
Thanks Dick and good morning everyone.
I appreciate you all participated on our call this morning.
Let me echo Lauren's comment early on and say how proud I am of the entire team at Foot Locker for setting yet another earnings record this quarter.
Almost exactly 1 year ago I said it isn't every quarter that I can say we achieved the highest level of net income and EPS in the history of our business as an athletic company.
But now I wouldn't mind making a habit of it.
Let me say thank you again to all of our associates who built this momentum that made this results possible.
We have a lot of strong teammates helping us including our outstanding brand partners.
Without great teamwork and excellent performance across our entire company and with our vendors and suppliers record results like these just don't happen.
It takes a balanced team effort to win a championship and that's how we look at what we're trying to do here not just win a game or a series but build a team that wins on a consistent basis.
Even champions run into difficult stretches.
The air pocket of lower sales we experienced in the second half of January and early February dissipated somewhat.
And as Lauren mentioned our comp cadence improved significantly as the months of Q1 progress.
Sales this quarter are similarly off to a bit of a slow start with comps in May running about flat so far.
Store comps are down slightly offset by gain in our direct sales.
I'm sure you all know that it would be unwise to put too much weight on sales over a period of just a few weeks.
Weather holiday shifts store remodels and of course different launch cadences can cause deviations from the longer term trend.
We believe the current comp rate will improve over the remainder of the quarter.
And as Lauren said over the balance of the year we still expect to drive a mid single digit comp gain.
Turning back to what drove our record results in Q1.
Basketball continue to be the biggest driver of our business in the first quarter with Jordan both retro and lifestyle product particularly strong.
The marquee player shoes such as LeBron KD and Kobe are also selling well.
The running business in the U.S.
was up in the quarter as well led by Nike Free and our technical vendors such as ASICS Brooks and Mizuno.
Running continues to trend off in some European markets as many of our customers there are shifting to more basketball silhouettes especially Jordan.
As temperatures have risen recently in our major markets around the world the running business is improving which is good to see especially since it's not pulling away from our basketball business.
The lifestyle footwear business led by various Adidas and Nike styles continues to perform well for us.
Although the cross training business that featured Griffey and NoMo last year was down on a corner    quarter.
Some product releases in that category were pushed back into Q2 this year.
So we're optimistic that this business will pick up as a better assortments get into our stores and into our online sites.
Overall we're pleased with the performance of all of the legs of our stool: basketball running lifestyle footwear and apparel.
The Nike Jordan Adidas and Under Armour brands led the way in apparel with fleece and tees doing well.
Graphic and attitude tees from our Team Edition facility performed well throughout our banners.
The colored hook ups of tees and shorts with the hottest shoes continued to excite our customers with one of the best examples being the Jordan great package that launched at the end of the quarter.
Increases in apparel sales have been substantially exceeding footwear sales increases in the past couple of years as we improve the assortments in each of the banners and told much stronger brand and color stories.
In the first quarter of this year the 2 categories increased to close to the same pace.
As a result our apparel penetration was at about the same level year over year.
We believe apparel sales were impacted more than footwear by the cold weather in the first quarter this year compared to last.
Long term however we still believe we have the ability to drive apparel penetration close to the 30% level it was back a decade ago.
Within Accessories certainly one highlight continues to be performance socks from Nike Adidas and Jordan sales of which increased well into the double digits as innovation from the vendors remains very strong.
In addition to the improved productivity from store remodels that Dick talked about we're continuing to build our technological capabilities in our stores in our digital business and in our support functions.
Our industry leading capabilities in these areas remained I believe one of our underappreciated strengths.
First we continue to invest in technologies to make our inventory down to the very last unit available to our customers any way they come to see it whether online mobile or in store.
This is a fairly complex proposition for a multi banner company such as ours where we need to maintain flexibility as well as maintain separate identities for each banner with our customers.
This year for example our websites will show a product as long as it exists anywhere in our company in a warehouse or in a store.
Customers can then buy online and if they choose reserve in store.
Similarly in our stores customers and our associates will be able to check on the availability of an item wherever it may be and we'll be able to ship it to their home or to the store of their choice.
Second while the real estate and store construction teams are out creating exciting places for our customers to shop and buy our system teams are working with their business partners developing best in class tools to help us do a better job buying and allocating product hire the best retail talent schedule hours efficiently provide our associates with the best opportunity to maximize their success with the customer and optimize our warehouse and logistics processes among other initiatives.
We're just beginning to realize the benefits from some of the technologies we've already invested in such as our business intelligence tool and in store handheld scanners.
And these benefits should build over time especially when combined with the systems we haven't even yet implemented such as our new allocation system.
Finally I want to touch on the Runners Point acquisition again.
We're getting a profitable business with the strong leadership team out of the gate and it is certainly digestible from a size perspective.
It's not a business that's broken that we're going to need to fix which is a bit of what we're dealing with in Lady Foot Locker business.
Once we own Runners Point we'll go through the same disciplined process we do with any investment opportunity and test any major changes to the product assortments in the different banners or any expansion opportunities we see before going into them full speed.
We're excited about the transaction and look forward to welcoming the Runners Point team as they join our Foot Locker team.
Together we look forward to winning more championships in the years ahead.
Thank you.
We'll be happy to take your questions now.
Please go ahead operator.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Matt McClintock from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Ken your    a lot of good commentary on the apparel piece of the business this quarter and it really seems like Team Edition's been great for you.
I was wondering if you could maybe talk more on the private label part of the apparel business.
And specifically when we think about this business longer term to get the business to where you want it to go what are some of the building blocks that you still need to put in place to achieve your vision for that business? What we    we believe private label apparel gives us an opportunity to fill voids that are not provided by the brands.
We're going to be primarily a branded apparel retailer.
But we    there are voids that we use private label and continuing to build on them such as the cargo short business very strong business for us; some T shirts.
We also have the ability to develop brands such as what we've done with Sneaker Freak in Europe and Actra with women's business.
And so what we continue to do is evolve that business from a very promotional business that it used to be and use it to fill voids where we believe there is significant opportunities.
And that may involve brands or it may involve just using the private label as we do in shorts and fleece.
Research Division</strong> And if I can actually get one more question in just real fast.
Runners Point the e commerce opportunity seems pretty large in Europe and I was just wondering if you could maybe I think discuss a little bit more on how you view the    their business in Europe positioning and the potential to take that banner that e commerce banner to the rest of Europe? Well we believe Runners Point's Tredex operation first of all is best of class.
It obviously is a significant part of their business.
They have significant capabilities that will allow us to further develop our new Dot Com capability.
We just started rolling out in most of the countries in Europe within the past year.
They've been in place for several years.
They also have a very good understanding for example of payment terms in Europe and Germany.
There are 6 different ways that you can pay in Germany.
We don't even have the capability for all of those within our current Foot Locker dot Germany operation.
This will give us that capability to better serve the customer to have better processing capabilities and expand to the other parts of our operations.
So you are correct in picking up that Tredex is one of the important parts of the acquisition and one that we're very excited about using not only in Europe but some of the ideas and things they do and bring that back to the States to further strengthen our good Dot Com position here.
And the next question is from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start off in SG&amp;A.
Ken or Lauren could you just speak to the flexibility that you have in a scenario where comps for the balance of the year do fall short of your mid single digit view? If comps are only up for example low single digit do you have enough flexibility or would you be able to maybe moderate your plans for investments or remodels that you could still leverage? Or how should we think about that? Well we have said all along Paul that we can leverage low single digit comps.
We do have flexibility as we see the trends to make adjustments and there are number of different things that we can adjust ranging from store labor to what we're doing in terms of receipts resulting markdowns to marketing.
So we have flexibility.
One of the issues we had at the end of January was as you know not just for us but for all of retail the precipitous drop the last 2 weeks of January.
It's more difficult to adjust.
But we feel we have the flexibility to adjust and work very hard to control our expenses.
We're very proud we had the lowest expense rate in our history this last quarter and that's something that Lauren does an outstanding    and her team do an outstanding job monitoring.
That said we still believe looking at the product that's out there and the things that we have coming that we're going to achieve mid single digit sales growth.
Lauren I don't know if you have any...
No I think you've covered it.
I mean we remained focused on profitability and keep a close eye on the top line and we adjust where we can with that move.
Research Division</strong> And one May commentary that you made there are some changes in the release calendar this month.
I know that the Retro Jordan product for example are coming out tomorrow versus coming out a week earlier last year.
I mean how meaningful do you think that is to the flat comp and deceleration from April? And what are the other kind of factors that you think may have driven this slowdown? Well there's no question that just as a    in the department store industry have shifted the sale one way or the other the shift of a release for us has an impact.
And particularly when it's a significant shoe because you're talking a few million dollars here a few million dollars there make a big difference in what the comps are.
The other thing    and it's not an excuse for lack of sales it's an excuse for the    or it's a reality of a shift of sales because we believe the customers will buy apparel when the weather is right.
It's been cooler.
We did a very good job getting out of fleece in the spring season.
So we don't have a lot of fleece but we got a lot of t shirts and shorts.
People aren't quite wearing them.
You're in New York today and you know that the high today and tomorrow is going into be in the low 60s.
In Europe it's been in the 50s.
That doesn't    I'm not putting that as an excuse to why we haven't sale.
What I'm saying is it's a reason while the sales have shifted somewhat.
And we expect to get those sales back and we're in good shape.
And where we have seen the weather warm up such as places like Vegas where it's in the 90s the customers out there and they're buying the products.
So we know the product is right.
It's just getting the conditions right and we anticipate picking up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one quickly.
Ken could you just speak to the overall women's footwear trends across the industry so we can kind of understand what the spread is overall versus the business you're seeing in Ladies Foot Locker? Because if they're not shopping there where do you think that that customer is primarily purchasing their athletic goods? And you also spoke about the larger Lady Foot Locker stores outperforming.
What is the composition of large versus smaller Lady Foot Locker? Well we    well a couple of things.
One there's 2 basic things that we're seeing going on in the women's business.
One is that the performance business things like running and training shoes are doing well for us.
There are some fashion elements that are doing well like the wedges.
In athletic shoes from Nike and Reebok Adidas and those are 2 different customers.
What we've done in our business is we shifted Lady Foot Locker to more    a more performance customer.
By doing that we fire the customer that was there who was primarily a fashion customer.
We are now sending her to our Foot Locker and Champs stores.
And they are coming.
And up until this quarter they bought    our business in those stores was actually up compared to the Lady Foot Locker stores.
And if you remember we've said for up until this quarter again our women's business overall was up.
It was the Lady Foot Locker business that was down.
This quarter I think that one of the things that happened is we probably didn't have enough of the fashion in Foot Locker to satisfy that fashion customer and that's something that we are working feverishly to address.
What    in the larger stores and the re skinned Lady Foot Locker stores we have made a major effort for the new customer to find and see what we are and we're starting to see that customers finding us and coming in.
In the basic Lady Foot Locker stores it's a little more difficult because we don't have the room and haven't shown the apparel which is really the signal to that customer that this store is more performance oriented.
We    the good news is we're seeing where we put the apparel in in a significant way in those re skinned stores and in our SIX:02 stores.
They're starting to perform better and we    and that shows that we're on the right track.
We've got to make adjustments to that assortment because we're finding the customer is buying the product differently than we had initially thought they would buy it.
But we are making that transition.
I would say that right now in the women's business they aren't exactly    in the fashion side they're not moving as aggressively as they had been in the past.
They're probably moving into other shoes.
But I think as we get the right shoes we'll be positioned well.
And Paul you asked about the count of those larger SIX:02.
There are 3 of those and we've got 14 of what we call re skinned Lady Foot Lockers.
So that's 17 doors of 282.
And the next question is from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if maybe you could give us the traffic and ticket in the first quarter? Yes certainly ASPs were a part of the story.
They were strong up in footwear up further in apparel.
Traffic was down a bit.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- I'm curious in the May trends.
Is there any -- can you give any color between what's happening international or Europe versus the domestic operation in that May thought process? Yes the business in total is a little bit healthier in Europe right now.
We've seen there's some nice bounce-backs.
Ken referred to some of the temperature challenges.
But again I think the product that's in both markets is right.
So as we push through into -- get closer to summer I think that both businesses are in good shape.
The Europe business Chris is actually brick-and-mortar one of our better businesses right now.
The team is doing a good job responding to what the customer wants.
And you heard Dick's comment about Runners Point who is primarily in Germany where -- which is the strongest economy and one of the things that we're going to take advantage of by having a bigger -- largest country if the deal closes.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay that's good to hear.
Just to clarify I mean I know a lot of people are going to be concerned about the comp to date trend line.
But as we've seen in the past when a product is relevant the customer does come into your stores and shop.
I mean I guess give us some just points as to why you feel so confident that you're going to return back to mid-single digits.
I mean obviously the calendar shift has some impact.
But I was just wondering maybe if you could elaborate about that about your comfort level.
So that early in the first quarter when that happened probably you're going to see it again but just give some investors some comfort.
Chris I think that when you look at the business the advantage we have obviously is we've seen the product coming and we also know what's selling and what's not selling.
There are a number of different things.
One some of the big ideas that are coming more Flyknits from Nike more Boosts from Adidas the sling...
SpringBlade.
SpringBlade.
Well I keep on calling it sling blade which is not a good way.
SpringBlade from Adidas is going to be a big hit coming.
The colors that we've got in the store and that we got coming are selling extremely well.
More technical performance.
The launches that we have coming up we've got a nice lineup of launches coming all of those things in the shoe business.
The second thing is that in the past our apparel significantly outpaced our shoe business.
This quarter it didn't and we're positioned well with apparel.
We get a little bit of break where people will start wearing the shorts and more of the T-shirts we have because we don't have the fleece to sell them.
When we did have the fleece the last couple of quarters we did very well with it.
We sold out of it.
We did what we're supposed to do.
We're clean.
We go for the expected weather.
We don't try to say it should be this or it should be that.
All we want is it to be what's expected.
That will help because then our apparel business will pick up.
So there are a number of things if I look at in shoes and look at in apparel that give me optimism about this quarter and quite frankly for the rest of the year.
You guys know us well enough to know that we're not going to step out and promise the world.
We're going to say pretty sure of what we can deliver.
We feel good about the mid-single digits.
If things work out better things work out better.
But unlike when some people write things and actually mean something else when we say what we say we mean it.
And the next question is from Kate McShane from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just with all the initiatives that you have in place I was wondering if you could walk us through where you'll be with each of your remodels for each banner this year so what percentage you'll be through.
And can you talk about how much of a comp lift you get after you remodel a store? I'll take you through Kate from the Kids Foot Locker numbers I mentioned will be -- over 20% of those doors will have been touched.
We'll be around the 10% level on the Foot Locker chain and will be closer to 15% on the Champs chain.
And no we haven't talked about the comp lift that we get after those remodels.
They continue to meet the hurdles that we've got from a capital perspective but we haven't commented on the comp performance.
We have our hurdle rates.
And as Dick said in his call all of the remodels were projected to exceed those hurdle rates.
Which are 11% ROIC 13% IRR.
And they are exceeding that exceed.
This is what Dick said in his comments.
And so we're -- right now we're happy with the results of the remodels.
The challenge that we had this past quarter was particularly for the Champs stores.
They're closed for several weeks to do the remodel and we didn't have any stores that have been remodeled that were providing the additional growth to make up for the ones that were closed.
And that -- when you close a number of stores for several weeks that has an impact.
But what will start happening now is the ones that have been remodeled will help offset for the ones that are closed as we start to move through this process.
That was the way we had planned it.
But the first batch we didn't have the benefit.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question was just your commentary on apparel in Europe that it was a little bit weaker.
Can you remind us what the mix of apparel and footwear is in Europe compared to that of the U.S.? We have not said the percent.
Totally in the U.S.
or across the company we're at about 24%.
But Europe has a higher percentage of apparel penetration than the rest of the company and it's been more challenging there.
And we continue to make adjustments to improve that.
And the next question is from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess Ken for you as we think about the strength in the Kids business I want you to just sort of speak to again what exactly is driving that.
And is that in any way an indication -- again just I -- I hate to use the word cycle but as we go through the innovation pipeline that's occurred over the last couple of years on the men's side of that business and perhaps the trickle down to now the Kids business maybe just frame for us how we should be thinking about that process.
Yes I don't -- and again we have the cycle and trend.
I don't think this is necessarily cycle.
I think this is the trend that's here.
Those people with kids their kids aren't wearing any brown shoes.
They're all wearing sneakers all the time.
And so that opens up the opportunity for us and we are the place to go for quality kids sneakers.
There's not another place that has the assortment that we do either in our Kids stores or in our Kids assortments in all of our other banners.
And what we're seeing there is the brands are doing an excellent job in one making sure that they have kid-friendly fun shoes and we're seeing a lot of those.
Dick mentioned the Crayola line from Converse for example but also the Takedowns.
There is a huge "I want to look like daddy" or "I want to look like big brother" business and so...
Or "I want to wear what my hero's wearing." Yes "I want to wear what my hero's wearing." And so we are seeing a significant Takedown business.
And then at the bigger sizes there's a fair bit of performance and women who are buying those shoes young women or men for that matter with small feet.
So it's really the brands doing a great job adjusting or recognizing this trend.
For example Nike just appointed a new person to run their kids initiatives.
That's one of the leaders in the company because they recognize it and the other people are doing the same thing.
But this is a -- there's not a vendor we deal with that doesn't recognize this as a significant opportunity and we're benefiting.
And I would say our team has also done a really good job of adding apparel to those stores.
And when you got a strong apparel offering it helps those shoes.
And that's one -- if you look at the new remodeled Kids stores what we've done in the remodel is really make a major apparel play.
And as again Dick said that apparel is up significantly more than the shoes.
And the stores that haven't been remodeled yet we've taken steps to put more apparel in until we get around to the remodel.
So there are a number of things happening.
The other thing in the accessory area.
We've put in hats and more socks.
So this is something that to some degree have been a neglected business that's really now just getting the attention and I see it continuing for quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then I guess my second question you guys have done a great job of managing inventories.
Maybe speak to the competitive landscape in the mall obviously when your key competitors they're doing a partnership with a department store just the -- and sort of the view of the landscape and any potential threat of cannibalization or too much products in the mall.
Is the segmentation right? I know at the end of the day whoever's got the best products is going to take share.
But maybe just tell us on the developments in the mall.
Well I think here the brands have done a very good job making sure that they manage their brands well.
And they will continue to do that make sure that they don't damage the brands by putting the product in the wrong places or letting the product get ahead of the market too much.
That said we have to keep an eye on what's going on there.
We believe that the customer who is buying in our stores and stores like ours will continue to do that.
Somebody else may be cannibalizing their own business by expanding the outlets they have.
I'm not sure that will necessarily impact us because of the product that they're talking about but we will definitely keep an eye on it.
And I think our history has shown that Dick and Lauren together have done a very good job managing those inventories and keeping them in line with the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just my last question regarding the Runners Point acquisition.
It looks like at least on a price basis kind of a really nice deal here.
And given the comps given the growth opportunities you mentioned that it's a profitable business and expected to be accretive.
But is there any way to give a little bit more color on the operating margin structure of that business relative to Foot Locker and I guess dealing with some of the opportunities? I give Dick Lauren Gary Bahler our General Counsel Luke Kimball [ph] and all the people involved on the negotiation doing a hell of a good job negotiating when you look at what we got for the price.
That said it's a -- we are going through a legal process in Germany and we don't own them yet.
And so it's a little difficult for -- not a little difficult.
We can't comment a lot on the details.
And the next question is from Omar Saad from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit on the gross margin line kind of the differential between occupancy leverage and merch margin.
It looks like they both contributed a little bit this quarter but it sounds like more of the kind of gross margin gains in the future seem like they're going to be coming from leverage rather than merch margin.
Can you talk about the merch margin dynamics there and what's changing? Obviously you've done a great job on that front the last few years and have seen huge gains.
But are we kind of getting towards the end of the road there or is there still opportunity on the merch margin side? Let me reiterate what we saw in the first quarter.
It was 20 basis points in our margin overall.
We had 20 basis points improvement in the merchandise margin.
We got 10 basis points leverage out of the fixed cost and we gave back 10 basis points in lower shipping and handling revenue.
So yes we do -- on a mid-single digit we get leverage opportunity out of the margin.
And as we've said we continue to think that that's what the balance of the year looks like on the top line so we would expect leverage.
But that shipping and handling revenue doesn't go away that pressure point.
And we've got continued pressure point out of lower IMU although that's certainly at lower levels of pressure than what we've seen last year.
But we do still have opportunity in underlying merchandise margin.
We're making investments in systems that help us do a better job of allocating the product.
And the better we are at allocating it to the right place the first time around the more full-priced selling you get.
So that helps the merchandise margins.
And we have said more than once that long term we really feel very good about the opportunity for apparel to become a higher percentage of our business.
And that one day the margins in apparel should outpace the footwear margins.
What we've been doing for the last couple of years is lower promotional levels overall have meant that gross margin and footwear has been improving at the same as apparel so they haven't consistently crossed yet with apparel over footwear.
So I guess what I'd tell you is that merchandise margin opportunity the fruit's higher up in the tree but it's still there and we think we can get it.
And the next question is from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> When do you foresee the RPG deal closing? It should be -- there is -- depending on when merger control review completes.
But it should be this summer July August.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us -- you said you're running flat for the month of May.
Can you tell us sort of what the shifted comp would have been how we should think about the shifted comp by quarter or for the month of May from last year so what you're up against but on the same calendar? We've done the quarter but we haven't done the month.
Research Division</strong> So could you give us what the shifted quarter would -- what the shifted Q2 and Q3 look like? Okay.
So again we go back to the guidance that we gave and what this 53rd week shift is all about.
For the second quarter we pick up a strong week of August drop off a week of May.
So that's worth about $40 million historically of sales moving into second quarter.
Research Division</strong> But that doesn't affect the comp.
That affects the sales.
So you see what I'm saying? I mean so the point is that you had a -- whatever the comp was last year you had a good comp in Q2 last year but that comp is on a different calendar.
So my question is what -- you ran a 9.8% comp last year for the quarter starting on April 29 and going through July 28.
This year it's a week later.
So on a shifted basis what is the actual comp for those weeks that you're up against? Does that make sense? I understand the $40 million move.
I'm trying to figure out what the comp what the actual comp you're up against is because -- is it a more difficult comp in Q3 than it is in -- or Q2 than it is in Q3 and so on so make sure we...
It is a more difficult comp in Q3 than Q2.
Research Division</strong> In Q3 than Q2 okay.
Yes.
Q3 is our most challenged quarter this year.
Yes.
So it's a bit stronger as Ken said on a shifted basis what that comp would have been last year.
But we still think mid-single digit and that's true by quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you think the variance won't be that great but you do have a little more opportunity in Q4 because of that -- the horrible last 10 days? Yes.
So what happens you have the shift of the money but the shift to the comp is comparable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last thing Dick how many stores by banner have you touched year-to-date so far in the remodels? Well we haven't gotten into the specific numbers by banners Sam because project start and finish...
Research Division</strong> How many are done? How many are completed I guess? Total real estate...
Yes we completed 64 remods in the first quarter.
We will do a chunk more in the second quarter.
We reached a peak in the third quarter.
But again not all remods are the same for time -- closure time if you will.
Research Division</strong> That's why I wanted to know how many are done by banner so we can sort of get an idea.
We know how many you're doing just so we get an idea...
The first quarter is our second light.
The fourth quarter is our lightest by far.
The second quarter's second lightest.
The heaviest is completed in the third quarter and the second quarter is the second heaviest.
The challenge as Dick said particularly with Champs is some carryover from quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> And next year assuming these work that number will go higher theoretically? We would anticipate continuing the process.
And if our ability is to do more we would do more.
We want to see what our ability is.
It's one of the reasons we got what we've got.
And the next question is from Camilo Lyon from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> So just to follow up on the last question.
I think what we're all trying to get a handle on is just to understand what the main driver was between the April comp of high-single digits versus the flat comp in May and maybe to highlight some of the moving parts around that.
Because it seems like you've had some good product that's been favorable understanding that apparel has not been given the weather.
Just if you could help us understand the differences between what's product-related what's been weather-related what's remodel-related I think that'd be incredibly useful.
All of the elements impact and for us to say that it's a little bit of this a little bit of that is very difficult.
All of the elements impacted.
May is the lowest month in the first half of the year.
It's our smallest month in the first half of the year.
And it has started off slower for all of the reasons that you just said and other things.
We were fortunate we had a strong April.
Looking at the pipelines the things we have coming we feel confident that we will be in the -- able to recover from the -- because of May.
Remember February when we talked last time that was our -- that's the biggest month in the first half of the year.
And we recovered from that because as we said we saw the product and we knew what we had coming.
It's a balance.
It's one of the reasons why retailers are hesitant to give weekly or monthly results because things move for a variety of reasons.
And you look at we look at over a period of time.
And you can't get too excited about a day a big day up or a big day down.
You have to look at it over the longer term.
And we feel as we said on the call that we've got the tools and ammunition to make sure that we're going to deliver our guidance of mid-single-digit comps.
Research Division</strong> Are there regional differences in terms of your stores that would explain away some of those -- the volatility trends that you just described so in other words try to pinpoint some of the more things that are relevant to the business? As I said earlier that where the weather is warmer we're performing somewhat better because we're getting some better results with some of the apparel.
But there are other conditions that impact that too like what the economy may be or a team a basketball team winning or losing.
And so it's difficult to say this one thing impacted the business.
I'm not trying to be difficult with you.
I'm just saying that on a theoretical basis you can go back and add it up.
But on an actual basis it's -- everything interacts whether -- so we're just -- we look at what we've got coming.
We've looked at what we've done.
We feel that the customer for the first couple of weeks of May didn't just all of a sudden quit buying.
They didn't all call each other and say "We're not going to buy." There were other things that we did and that happened externally that impacted that but they will come back.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to think about the quarter-to-quarter progression on the comps if you're thinking mid-single digits for the year is there some sort of lumpiness between Q2 and Q4 that we should be contemplating or is that -- should we expect that to be fairly linear? It's fairly linear.
And the next question is from Taposh Bari from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ken I'm going to give you a break on the comp question.
I want to shift gears to flow-through.
So the past couple of years you guys have spoiled us with 30% to 40% rates of flow-through yet these past 6 months have been a little bit more challenged 19% in the fourth quarter 23% this quarter.
It sounds like there's some unique events taking place there.
I guess A is that fair? And B assuming that you do deliver on the mid-single-digit comp which it sounds like you should be able to how do we think about the rate of flow-through going forward? I have to correct you on -- first quarter is 27% flow-through and I guess certainly better than Q4 where we've described what happened in Q4 where it dropped off at the end.
And if it drops off right at the end you're somewhat limited in what you can pull back.
We also in the fourth quarter as Lauren said we had the charge which we did not call out for -- because we were negotiating on doing the Runners Point.
But the first quarter was -- or the fourth quarter was...
Kind of tough.
But first quarter we had margin rate expansion expanding both on gross margin and our SG&amp;A with the 27%.
Yes despite the 53rd week shift that's limited that.
But we remain very focused on flow-through and incremental -- we can leverage at low single-digits and we do well on anything above that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess maybe asked another way the $20 million worth of sales that you lost in the first quarter I mean how meaningful do you think that would have been to EPS? I mean you can do the math off of $20 million.
But we as an objective sales above plan we're trying to hit a 35% flow-through rate.
Yes we delivered the sales expectations and beat the earnings expectations that were out there.
Now if there were some that were out there that weren't out public I can't -- I have difficulty knowing what that is.
But we feel that particularly looking at the competitive set that is recently reported our sales and earnings are above those.
And it was something the team feels is a good accomplishment.
Was it as good as what we would have liked? No we're never satisfied but it's...
We're very focused on productivity which is the reason that we continue to look at underperforming stores.
Our desire is to get those performing so they remain part of the fleet.
But we do what we need to do.
When you close an underperforming locations that lifts our productivity rate overall.
We are focused on sales per square foot.
We are focused on sales per payroll hour.
And in fact we've been investing in systems that help us do a really good job of getting selling hours on the floor right and matching those up to peak periods that improves that productivity further.
So we do remain focused on that and improving the rate.
And the last question will be from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Is there something structurally different on the buying and occupancy line here? If I just look back through the model it seems like potentially in the past we get a little higher leverage from a 5% comp.
Well increasing occupancy remains a dynamic so as we commit to projects right you're putting capital into doors where we have extended lease life.
So that adds occupancy dollars.
It adds occupancy.
The other thing Michael I think that a couple of years ago when we were closing -- when we had more nonproductive stores to close...
Yes that's also a factor.
We obviously benefited more.
Now as more stores are more productive it becomes more challenging.
That said we still have stores to close.
It's demonstrated by the fact we're going to close over 100 stores this year.
And all of those doors when we close them will improve our productivity and performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know we've beat this to death but I want to just ask one question on help of remodeling for a second here.
Can you -- just around clarifying some of the comments you made on the math around the store you had off-line as you started the remodels in the quarter those stores in the math come out of the comp base for a period and how that impacts the comp sales number as they come back in if so.
I'm just -- in particular I'm looking at -- I think you said Lauren that the peak of the remodels will be in the third quarter.
And then I think Ken you said that that was also your toughest comparison quarter so I want to make sure we get the cadence correct.
No the store is in the comp the whole time even the close period.
Yes.
So we're dark a -- for the weeks that it's closed.
The thing that happened in the first quarter that as we go along will be different is that in the first quarter we didn't have any stores that we remodeled in the fourth quarter the prior year that have the higher-than-average pickup.
So what happens is you develop a layering.
I'm closed but I've got some stores remodeled that will help cover those closed stores.
And as you go through and get that layering the impact of the stores that are closed gets less.
And that's why quite frankly we haven't made a big deal of it because over time it should -- it will work out to be neutral.
In the first quarter more of an impact because we didn't have some higher-performing stores to offset the ones that were closed.
It's a part of what we're doing.
And when we did the -- we do the analysis for the remodels we understand and recognize we count the downtime and we recognize what that is in and that's in the returns that we have to come up with.
So it's an anomaly for the first couple of quarters until we get a number that are delivering at that higher rate and they will offset the ones that are closed to some degree.
It's also another reason why we -- people said "Why don't you just remodel the whole chain at once?" People would probably question us getting down 400 500 stores for 6 weeks in a year.
Research Division</strong> Yes you might have a 2-week period that you're not flat for God's sake.
So if I could just close with one little step back on Lady Foot Locker here you've been through a few soul-searching periods with that change since you've been there.
It sounds like you're still hustling to crack the code.
But all the while you've been reducing the store count into that.
I mean how do you think about managing that dynamic from here where we are today? Do you at this point have any kind of confidence as you've mentioned some of the reopened stores has been better that longer term you can slow down the door closures? Yes I think what we're seeing and what will happen -- and one of the reasons why not exactly fighting the store closures is the stores that we're closing aren't the right size going forward.
They're shoe-driven stores and they're smaller stores.
They don't have enough space for apparel.
And that we know is the real key to this business.
And so we're going to have to switch over anyway on many of those stores.
There are some we won't as we said with the reskinned stores.
But we're going to have to close those stores and put up a new -- get a new space anyway.
So closing it now if it's not delivering effectively isn't necessarily a bad thing.
The important thing is that we're learning all about what selling space allocation the brands that work the type of product and...
What sells with what to present a collection.
Presentation the selling skills required.
We're learning a tremendous amount.
And the good news that we've got is that we're seeing a light at the end of the tunnel.
Now people look and say geez why haven't you got it yet? I don't think -- I could be wrong but I don't think Lululemon had 150 stores 8 months after they opened.
And it takes a while to get it right.
We're going to get it right and then we're going to expand it.
And we can move aggressively.
We've got the capability to move aggressively.
And I guarantee the landlords are very interested in this succeeding because they see this as a void in the market.
The vendors are very interested in growing this aggressively.
And this is something -- when we look at Kids now and the performance of Kids 2 or 3 years now we're going to be talking about women's the same way and the performance of women's.
And that's what we're looking at is getting that right so we have the next level of significant growth opportunity that we can move forward on and layer that on.
And so it just doesn't -- while we're talking about it is this a Kids cycle or not a Kids cycle is it women's cycle?  We've built a layer merchandising a layer of business that will go on and we'll be able to build on for the long term.
That's all we have time for.
Thank you for participating on the call today.
We look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9:00 a.m.
on Friday August 23 following the release of our second quarter and year-to-date earnings earlier that morning.
Thanks again and goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received yesterday's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm pleased that everyone could join us this morning to discuss Foot Locker Inc.'s second quarter 2012 results.
In our press release earlier this morning we reported a 59% increase in second quarter net income to $50 million or $0.39 per share on a GAAP basis.
This profit level represents the highest level of earnings from continuing operations of any second quarter in the history of the company as Foot Locker Inc.
This result brings the year-to-date earnings to $187 million or $1.21 per share an increase of 43% also the highest profit level the company has earned in the first 6 months of any year.
Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will begin this morning's prepared remarks with a summary of our second quarter and year-to-date financial results.
She will also update our outlook for the second half of the year.
Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will then recap our progress on some of the major initiatives we outlined earlier in the year at our investor meeting initiatives which we believe can continue to drive our performance to new heights.
Ken will also discuss the current business environment in the major regions in which we do business.
And we'll of course allow time for questions after our prepared remarks.
Good morning Lauren.
Thank you John and good morning to you all.
We were pleased to report earlier this morning that we sustained top line momentum in the second quarter with a 9.8% comp gain following the first quarter's 9.7% comp gain.
And just as in the first quarter we were able to flow those sales to the bottom line to produce record EPS results.
Our domestic stores comped up in the low-teens in the second quarter with gains in every division except for Lady Foot Locker which was essentially flat.
Foot Locker Europe's comparable store sales were also essentially flat down less than 0.5%.
But total sales in Europe were actually up mid-single-digits as we operated more than 30 additional stores in the second quarter of 2012 compared to a year ago.
Our other international divisions posted mid-single-digit comp gains and our Direct-to-Customer segment posted an 18.1% gain including a gain of almost 50% in our store banner Dot-Com sales.
Coming on top of last year's Q2 comp gain of 11.8% this year's overall comp gain marks the second consecutive quarter in which we have posted a 2-year stacked comp gain in excess of 20%.
In fact our 2-year stacked comp gain for the first half of 2012 is a strong 22.1%.
By month we posted high single-digit comp gains in May and June while July was up double-digits.
The strongest division in the second quarter was Kids Foot Locker which posted a comp gain in excess of 20%.
Champs Sports continued its very strong performance with a comp gain in the teens on top of last year's similar results for a 2-year stacked result of more than 30%.
Foot Locker in the U.S.
and Footaction also posted double-digit gains this quarter on top of similar results a year ago.
CCS.com sales fell below last year by a low single-digit percentage as it ran far fewer promotions this year compared to last resulting in improved profit margins.
Excluding CCS the other parts of our Direct-to-Customer segment posted a gain in excess of 20% for a 2-year stacked gain of well over 40% for the second quarter in a row.
Footwear and accessories both had high single-digit comp gains while apparel lead the way with a low double-digit increase.
Within footwear the kids' business was stronger not just at Kids Foot Locker but in almost all of our divisions that sell kids' merchandise.
Jordan product Adidas classics such as the Samoa padded collar Chucks from Converse and Slides all had very strong gains.
In men's footwear basketball was once again the key driver.
There were several Jordan Retro launches that pushed really well during the quarter.
In addition we had tremendous results in marquee players shoes led by LeBron we were happy to see get a ring and a gold medal but also Kobe Rose and Durant.
The broader basketball business was very strong as well as we continue to build on our leadership position in our biggest category with Nike Jordan and Adidas.
Running was relatively flat overall we continue to develop and differentiate our running and casual assortments to match the distinct customer expectations in each of our different banners.
Sales of footwear were down slightly at Lady Foot Locker.
But overall we posted a positive comp in women's footwear as gains in several other divisions were solid.
Our positive results were driven by Nike Lightweight Tech running including the Colors That Run program from ASICS Adi classics and Nike Prestige.
Apparel sales in the U.S.
once again achieved a 20% comp gain.
The total company apparel gain was low double-digits due to comp apparel declines in Europe and Canada.
Graphic tees continue to be a major area of growth for us.
And our Team Edition facility is busy producing T-shirts for several brands as well as our own private label.
We had particular success with Jordan apparel that hooked up with the major shoe launches.
And we also saw significant gains in LeBron apparel.
Just as in footwear the biggest apparel gains were in our kids' businesses.
Overall Brand Jordan was the biggest gainer.
Apparel sales comped up double-digits at Lady Foot Locker as we saw some early success with the improved apparel assortments in that banner.
The accessories business continued to be strong for us.
Both socks and hats were up double-digits again with socks led by Nike Elite Nike multipack and Adidas.
Snapback and NBA hats also saw big gains.
Turning to the rest of the income statement.
Our gross margin rate rose to a strong 31.3% in the second quarter an increase of 90 basis points compared to last year.
We picked up 130 basis points from effectively leveraging our occupancy and volume costs.
However we gave back 30 basis points in merchandise margin and another 10 basis points due to lower shipping revenue from our online sales.
Let me focus for a moment on that 30 basis point decline in merchandise margin which is a function of a few different factors.
First our merchandise margins in Europe declined although the rate achieved in the quarter remains higher than our U.S.
margins.
We have been aggressive in taking the markdowns necessary to keep our merchandise in Europe fresh which remains key to sustaining the healthy profitable business we have there.
Second both our in-store and online operations in the U.S.
carry lower merchandise margins than our international divisions.
As the U.S.
businesses grow at a much brisker pace than our international operations the proportionately higher mix of U.S.
business tends to compress overall merchandise margins.
Our merchandise margin in the U.S.
stayed steady in the quarter even though our initial markup rate declined.
We are seeing price increases from our vendors and not all of these increases are passed on directly to customers in the form of higher retail prices.
However we have been able to reduce our markdown rates to offset the impact of the lower initial markup.
Thus the increases in average selling prices that we continue to see are a combination of higher prices from the vendors some of which we pass on to our customers and lower markdowns which we achieved by continuing to execute the initiatives of our strategic plan.
These efforts include differentiating our banners making our stores and digital sites more exciting places to shop and buy and more effectively allocating our merchandise to make it more productive.
And no discussion of margins would be complete without noting that overall apparel margins remain below footwear margins.
We've made good progress in the U.S.
but internationally where apparel margins are already higher than footwear margins we did lose some ground with the tough market conditions especially in Europe.
We continue to work hard to improve margins in all product categories.
Turning now to SG&amp;A.
Our expense rate improved 120 basis points to 22.4% in the second quarter from 23.6% last year.
SG&amp;A dollars increased by only $5 million on a $92 million sales increase.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A expenses have risen only $13 million on a $218 million sales increase.
The biggest driver of this performance is the disciplined approach we take in managing store wages.
In fact all of our divisions including Foot Locker Europe have improved their year-to-date sales for payroll hour metrics.
We believe this performance can get even better over time as we begin to capture the benefits of the new time and attendance system that we implemented in the second quarter.
Our depreciation expense was $29 million in the quarter up $1 million from last year while interest expense was flat at $1 million.
Our tax rate came in at 36.7% in Q2 slightly better than the 37% we planned for primarily as a result of a tax rate change in Ontario.
This tax benefit contributed $0.01 per share to our earnings.
Thus without that item non-GAAP EPS in Q2 was $0.38 as opposed to our GAAP results of $0.39 a share.
A GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation reflecting this adjustment will be included in our second quarter Form 10-Q.
The bottom line net income total of $59 million is the highest level of earnings from continuing operations of any second quarter in our history as an athletic company.
Similarly the year-to-date net income total of $187 million is easily the best result in Foot Locker Inc.'s history.
Reflecting Ken's well-documented constant state of dissatisfaction the entire team at Foot Locker while proud of these results remains far from satisfied.
We see too many opportunities for us to improve our business further to be content.
We have many initiatives underway to take advantage of market opportunities we see ahead of us which we believe can drive performance even higher.
And Ken will talk more about those initiatives in a few minutes.
First though let me give you a brief real estate update.
We ended the second quarter with 3 354 stores having opened 47 new stores and closed 62 so far this year.
You'll recall that at the beginning of the year we estimated that we would open 82 new stores and close 75.
Our store openings are on plan with the store count in Europe up by 20 year-to-date and several new highly productive House of Hoops stores open in the U.S.
On the flip side we now expect to close about 100 stores during 2012.
We have identified opportunities to close additional stores which we have been using to clear markdown merchandise.
Given our significantly improved inventory position it is definitely a positive that we do not need to operate as many of these clearance stores as we have in the past.
Speaking of inventory we ended the quarter with about $1.2 billion in inventory down $38 million or about 3% from last year despite a 7.2% increase in sales.
Weaker foreign currencies had a lot to do with the nominal decline.
On a constant currency basis inventory was flat and it was up about 1% on a per-store basis.
The productivity of our inventory continues to get better overall and we feel well positioned in all of our markets for the important back-to-school season.
We ended the quarter with $820 million of cash and short-term investments an increase of $139 million from the end of Q2 last year.
We spent $37.5 million in the quarter to buy back about 1.2 million shares bringing our year-to-date share repurchase program to $64.6 million at a reduction of approximately 2.1 million shares.
As mentioned on our last call we have increased our projected capital spend for 2012 to $170 million.
And just this week we met with our Board of Directors to preview our potential capital spending program for the coming years.
It is still premature to discuss specific numbers because much depends on the degree of success of the various tests we are currently conducting and plan to conduct over the next year or so.
But the potential exists to take up our capital spending significantly over the next few years.
We continue to follow the model of first developing a prototype making adjustments and then thoroughly testing in order to understand the sales and profit potential before committing large amounts of capital to any project.
As a result our goal is to ensure that any capital spending scenario would enhance our financial performance over the long term while not disrupting it in the short term.
Let me touch on a couple of key topics for the rest of the year before I turn the call over to Ken.
First we continue to be cautiously optimistic about our business for the back half of the year.
Given the trends from the first half of the year and our early back-to-school sales we are positioning ourselves for comp sales growth at the high end of mid-single-digits.
So far in August our comps are running up double-digits including a mid-single-digit gain in Europe.
While that performance is of course very good there are some shifts including timing of certain launches tax holidays and school openings that make reporting comps over such a short period less meaningful.
That said the momentum of our business is clearly intact globally.
In terms of gross margin we continue to anticipate 30 to 40 basis points of improvement in the second half with gains from leverage somewhat offset by pressure on merchandise margins.
The primary merchandise margin dynamics I mentioned before IMU pressures from our vendors and the higher growth rate of Direct-to-Customer and U.S.
store sales compared to international sales are likely to continue.
Similarly we still plan SG&amp;A expenses for the remainder of the year to improve as a percentage of sale by 6 to 80 -- 60 to 80 basis points.
That would equate to a full year rate decrease of about 100 basis points.
Our tax rate over the back half of the year is likely to be slightly higher than our previous outlook of 37% as a consequence of the higher-than-planned proportion of earnings that are coming from our U.S.
business where the tax rate is higher than our average international rate.
Blended with the favorable tax rate in the first half of the year due to some one-time benefits such as the Ontario rate changed we're still likely to be close to 37% for the full year.
Finally we have profit headwinds of about $0.01 per share in the second quarter due to currency movements.
Using constant year-over-year FX rates our EPS would have been about $0.01 higher in Q2 than the $0.39 we reported and about $0.02 higher year-to-date.
Assuming exchange rates stay where they are now the exchange rate differential in the back half of the year will be smaller than it was in the second quarter since the euro in particular started to weaken in the second half of last year.
On the other hand our international profits are greater in the second half so any differential has a somewhat different impact.
Bottom line we are still expecting headwinds of about $0.05 per share for the full year.
This impact has been factored into our guidance of double-digit percentage profit increases in each quarter for the rest of 2012.
With that financial overview let me give the floor to Ken so that he can discuss some key initiatives and the trends in our business.
Ken? Thank you Lauren and good morning everyone.
Thank you for your participation on the call and your interest in Foot Locker.
I'm very proud of the entire team at Foot Locker.
We have achieved consistently strong financial and operational results so far this year.
Our record of consistency goes back even further.
In 2011 we posted a 9.8% comp gain for the full year.
Now this year we posted a 9.7% comp gain in Q1 and a 9.8% comp gain in Q2 having achieved as Lauren said an impressive 2-year stacked gain of over 20% in both quarters.
In fact we've now reached our 10th consecutive quarter of meaningful sales and profit growth.
I believe this track record of steady improvement is a consequence of carefully executing the initiatives of the strategic plan that we first laid out more than 2 years ago and which we continue to refine as we identify new and exciting opportunities to increase shareholder value.
Lauren did a great job highlighting the key drivers of the quarter basketball kids' apparel in the U.S.
to name just a few.
So before I get to your questions I'm just going to spend a few minutes reviewing some of our key ongoing initiatives and where we stand at the moment.
From a store perspective we have several exciting things in the works.
We've talked in the past about our Champs prototype store in Florida.
We now have 11 test stores open so we can determine if the excellent results we got out of the prototype happened when the stores are spread around the country in different market situations.
At the Foot Locker division in the U.S.
we have a new prototype store opened in the Smith Haven Mall on Long Island and so far so good.
We have a number of Foot Locker test stores with some variations on tap for later this year and early next year.
We have a three-pronged effort with Lady Foot Locker.
First as Lauren mentioned we've upgraded the apparel assortments in virtually all of our existing Lady Foot Locker stores and the initial results have been encouraging with a double-digit apparel gain there in the second quarter.
Second we're also in the process of remodeling 14 Lady Foot Locker stores in which we intend to really highlight the apparel offerings with much of the apparel assortments displayed prominently on the walls and with many of the shoes moved to the center of the store.
Most of these stores are open now or will be shortly so feel free to contact John after the call if you might like to see where the closest store to you is.
Third and finally we intend to open 3 new concept stores for women before the holiday selling season.
These stores will be merchandise significantly different than the Lady Foot Locker store with much more apparel stronger coordination between shoes and apparel and more emphasis on performance.
These stores will have a new nameplate over the door which we'll announce later in the quarter.
We are excited about the opportunity in the women's business but we'll have to see how these various tests play out before making any decisions about the future direction of our Lady Foot Locker business or how best to apply some of the learnings to our other women's businesses.
Moving onto Kids Foot Locker.
We have several test stores operating now with an updated look.
And given the current strength of our kids' business we're eager to get going with a further rollout.
But we're just in the middle of the back-to-school season so it's still too early to make decisions.
In Europe we've expanded beyond the locker room prototype store in Brent Cross that we told you about at the end of 2011 and now have 2 additional test stores operating in the U.K.
with 2 more on the continent slated for later this year.
We're also experimenting with additional Kids stores in Europe which we think is a natural.
In the meantime we continue to expand the Foot Locker store count in Europe as planned.
The business there remains profitable and we're investing for the long run in Europe which we believe will stabilize over time.
Lauren mentioned that we have more initiatives in the works than ever before.
And you can see that we have a lot happening on the bricks-and-mortar front.
But we're far from idle in the digital space.
I feel we can do a better job of communicating all the exciting investments we have made and are continuing to make to position our online and mobile applications as the premier destinations in the industry.
Certainly we believe no one is better plugged in than we are as to how our young customers want to be engaged and how they use technology to shop and buy.
We are in a constant state of refinement and enhancement at Foot Locker.
We recognize it is a necessity to constantly upgrade our technical capabilities to meet the quickly changing demands of our tech-savvy customers.
First at our Eastbay business we continue to build on the competitive advantage we have with the high-performance varsity athlete.
We are constantly enhancing the functionality and engagement features of the Eastbay website with aspirational imagery authentic athletes and storylines and features such as the Athletic Resource Center or ARC.
At ARC our exceptional athletes can measure their physical performance against elite world-class athletes with Close the Gap.
Football players can see from real players how equipment works on the field from cleats to pads to gloves and more and from position-to-position with the Eastbay Edge.
We also plan to leverage Eastbay's unparalleled reach to high school athletes and coaches as well as very strong relationship with Nike to build a much more meaningful team sales and service business.
We are strengthening the team sales organizations and have already started selling in California and we're also positioning for the future growth in key states such as Texas and Florida.
Second we're investing in expansion of our e-commerce business in Europe.
We're now online including mobile applications in several countries on the continent in addition to the U.K.
where we've been already operating for a couple of years.
We have more countries rolling out over the next few quarters.
Third we are strengthening the omnichannel experience for the customers of our various bricks-and-mortar brand banners in the U.S.
We already have excellent award-winning Web and mobile sites that leverage the efficient infrastructure of our Direct-to-Customer model.
We continue to introduce capabilities that clearly pay off such as enabling online purchases to be returned to stores and buy online pick up in store.
We're supporting this with a mobile feature that enables shoppers to locate their favorite banners' nearest physical store.
We're testing the use of handhelds and iPads for both our associates and customers in the U.S.
stores.
We already have handhelds in most stores in Europe.
And we're on the vanguard of testing new payment options from PayPal Google Wallet and Isis.
And we're exploring the use of WiFi for our customers.
In these and other ways we continue to align and feel the look and feel of our in-store experience with our digital retail space.
As a matter of fact we held this week's board meeting at our Direct-to-Customer headquarters in Wausau Wisconsin where we showcased to our Board of Directors our existing capabilities and our plans to capture the ongoing migration of more and more of our customers to the digital space.
The 50% increase in our store banner Dot-Com sales that Lauren mentioned early on during the call is a good sign we believe we're on the right track.
Turning to the macro situation Lauren used the words cautiously optimistic.
And I'd like to echo that sentiment when summing up how we see the athletic industry over the back half of the year.
The pace of product innovation coming from our key vendors such as Nike Adidas Converse Jordan ASICS New Balance Mizuno and Under Armour is as fast as ever and our customers are continuing to vote enthusiastically in favor of our assortments.
That said we have an election coming up and a so-called fiscal cliff the country is approaching.
So there's always the potential of an impact on the U.S.
economy that we will have to manage through.
And the future direction of Europe's economies in the short run especially is still highly uncertain.
As I said though we're investing there for the long term.
But our business remains solid in the U.S.
Canada and Australia and it seems to be picking up in Europe with positive comps there in July and so far in August.
We will continue to plan cautiously but we believe we have the right product in the stores now for back-to-school and the right product coming up in for the holiday selling season.
The Olympics have helped to expand awareness of quite a few high-profile athletes and several exciting new technologies.
The NFL is already getting its season underway on time.
And later on the NBA season will also start on time.
These elements all support an overall trend that continues to be positive for our industry.
To wrap up my remarks I'd like to reiterate my appreciation for the hard work of the entire team that made our excellent second quarter and record year-to-date results happen.
Their teamwork both within the company and with our brand partners and other major suppliers enables us to connect with our customers and reach new heights of customer satisfaction and financial performance.
As high as we climb however we still see plenty of opportunities ahead and we're determined to execute our strategies to reach even higher.
Thank you.
Operator let's open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question comes from Camilo Lyon from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> My first question you guys mentioned that running was flat in the quarter so wondering if you could give a little bit more color around the category and what might be behind the flat trends that you're seeing.
We have seen good performance in our Lightweight running and our technical running.
Where we've had challenges is in some of the higher-priced Air running.
And in units we're doing well.
It's the shift in the dollars.
But we feel confident with some of the new Air product that's out there and the continued growth of Lightweight running that running will continue to improve.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then shifting over to Europe.
It seems like the trends there are a little bit volatile which is to be expected.
What do you think is driving the most recent strength in July and August? Is it really all of the Olympic boost? Or is there something underlying that that has helped the latest few weeks here? Well there obviously was some impact by the Olympics.
But that was primarily in the U.K.
We saw good performance as a result of some of the new product that we got Lightweight running is one of the important new ideas.
We also are seeing some very good performance on some of the classics like the Blazers and some of the shoes from Adidas.
So we've implemented a new technology zone that is allowing us to sell more performance-related running product that's helped our business.
And so you put all of those elements together and we're seeing some better results than we did at the end of last year.
Research Division</strong> Are there some stores or countries in Europe that don't have the Lightweight running product just yet? No.
We've got the technology throughout all of our stores in Europe now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then my third and final question actually relates to technology.
You spent a little bit of time discussing the investments of where you're at right now.
One of your larger competitors has made a big push into upgrading their technology systems really from front to back.
Do you feel like there's a need for you to increase any of your expense or CapEx dollars to catch up with them? We don't think we need to catch up with them.
We think they're trying to catch up with us quite frankly.
We've had handhelds in our stores for a period of time in Europe as I stated and got them in a number of stores in the United States.
We've had a very good distribution system -- I'm sorry planning system in our company for a period of time and are now looking at an allocation system which I believe they're looking at both of those.
And we have been testing and trying different kinds of pads and screens in our stores for a period of time.
We've spent a great deal of money making sure that we have very workable websites both online and mobile.
So I salute them for trying to catch up with us.
But we've been pretty aggressive in this space.
And I think our results show that we continue to make progress there.
The thing we don't do is we don't try to clear a lot of products online.
And it's one of the reasons why our online performance I think our profitability is higher than theirs.
Our next question comes from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess we can focus on quarter-to-date trends up low double-digits maybe just talk through again the various categories from basketball to running on the footwear side what apparels kind of contributing to that.
And then it does sort of seem based on the guidance that there is an expectation for that to moderate a bit.
Again maybe just how we should be thinking about that -- those trends for early back-to-school.
Well right now as we said we're up low double-digits early this month.
But I think that when you look at the business running as we stated was flat.
We had a strong performance in basketball strong performance in apparel strong performance in classics.
Our men's and kids' business was good.
Women's business continues to be a little bit more challenging at Lady Foot Locker.
It's up overall by the way throughout the whole -- when you put the whole company women's business together it's up.
So we've got a lot of legs of the stool as I'd like to call it that are working.
When you look ahead I don't think that saying -- it's kind of funny when somebody says the upper end of mid-single-digits is conservative.
That seems to me like we're stepping out a bit.
But if you could tell me who's going to be elected what's going to happen with the fiscal cliff and what will happen with the economy in the back half of the year I could probably be more certain about how to plan.
But I think we're planning appropriately based upon the trends and what we see which from the vendors the product looks great.
There's a lot of fantastic things that they're bringing out and we're working with.
So I feel good about the back half but I'm not willing to step out way too far.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And by the way if you could -- anyone could tell us what those things are we'd all make a lot more money.
So maybe just in terms of the NFL license how we should think about that in planning the business? It certainly seems like an incremental year-over-year boost.
But how should we be thinking about you sorting the products going forward? Yes.
We feel very good about the new -- Nike's new license of the NFL.
They're being very aggressive with the product.
The marketing of it looks great and the season obviously hasn't really even started yet.
We're going to have some very strong presentations.
Champs will be the headquarters of that.
We're going to have a terrific store set up in Champs.
And we're going to have some stores that are going to have really spectacular setups.
But all of the stores will be selling the hats.
We'll have some of the apparel in some of our other stores.
But Champs will be the headquarters and brick-and-mortar and we'll have a very strong presentation online through Eastbay and through the champs.com -- champssports.com.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe lastly Lauren for you just switching to the merchandise margins.
Possible to sort of quantify the mix shift towards U.S.
obviously growing in a faster pace but maybe quantifying that and then how we should think about sort of other opportunities initiatives that you have in place that could support sort of offsetting that U.S.
mix shift.
Yes.
So we talked about being 30 basis points of merchandise margin.
The bigger piece of that coming as we worked through product in Europe to keep those inventories fresh a smaller portion being the mix that we talked about with the strength in the U.S.
and online business.
So as we think about margin expansion we continue to believe that as we do a better job of flowing our product and making it more productive allocation being an area that we're investing in technology to get even better at our job there that that will create opportunities for our merchandise margins to improve.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So let me just fine-tune something on Europe.
As we think of the mid-single-digits that you said you're seeing in comp growth there right now obviously there's some noise there based on the rest of your comments.
Is that -- as we think about your guidance for global comps up at the high end and mid-single-digits are you planning -- is that a comment baked in kind of a run rate in the mid-single-digits in Europe? Or is there some leeway there? No.
We feel very good about what the European team has done and where they are.
But our plans -- or our forecasts I should say for the fall season are not that aggressive for them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Can you talk a little bit about the new labor planning initiative that you launched in the second quarter? And is that something that's rolled out to all stores now? Or is that something that -- and even if it is in all stores I guess is that something that can continue ramp as a margin contributor as you go forward and fine-tune it? Any color there would be helpful.
Yes.
It is at this point rolled out now to all stores in the U.S.
and will be coming to Europe a bit later.
Definitely you should think about it as paying dividends over a longer-term as we become even more proficient at using it.
So what it's intended to do is to get us even smarter about how we spend our hours to make sure that we're aligning with peak selling periods and that you have your very best salespeople at your very peak traffic times.
So yes it definitely is something that will pay out over a long period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one just for Ken I guess.
Ken with all -- the number of initiatives you highlighted was pretty heavy.
Which ones are you personally most excited about right now out of all the ones you've just talked about? I love all my children thankfully.
I tell you what the ones -- the most straightforward ones that we're seeing obviously are the prototypes and what's happening there.
They also happen to be some of the more expensive.
The kids' is very very encouraging and it's one that provides -- there's nobody in that space as strong as we are and that's a great opportunity.
I feel the women's opportunity personally is a terrific one for us again because that space while there's some new entrants we provide something with the brands and price points and quality and performance that nobody else does.
And then finally what we're doing in Dot-Com and it's across 3 fronts Eastbay team sports and our banners.
And as I said we just reviewed it with the board this week and they were -- I think they were very positive and felt very good about our team's capability and where we can get that division as we go forward on -- and I just mentioned some of the things that we're doing to improve our Dot-Com sales.
They feel very good about what we can do there.
So it's difficult to pick one out because we've got to make sure that we test and support all of them.
One of the most important things is that we've divvied up the workload so that we can execute it and we don't -- the thing that I'm most worried about is that we buckle because we have too much going on.
And the team feels pretty comfortable in our ability to execute against this.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Ken price points have been certainly a part of the success driving the top line.
Just a few questions on this topic.
I guess first could you just kind of speak to the change in mix and performance that you've seen of $100 $150 $200 price point items versus a year ago and kind of versus the product that are below $100 price points? Second can you just kind of give us an update on where we are in regards to the inflationary pass through from the vendors? Is there still more to come? Or are we kind of somewhat done with that for the year? And just lastly is there -- there seems to be a willingness to pay up for very unique attributes in footwear whether it's the cutaways the styles the technology like Nike+ or events like the Jordan's Golden Moments Pack tomorrow.
But as we approach like $300 price points for certain items are you seeing any pushback at all on these higher price points? Or is the demand still much greater than the supply? Okay.
The first point on price points we are seeing price points go up and we're working with the vendors to make sure they're thoughtful because there's some classic shoes that you try to maintain as close as possible.
But then there are new shoes with new features where you're able to get more.
Our average selling price has gone up and we have seen -- I would say for the technology look and important shoes that's a growing classification for us over $100 group and so that's good.
Part of the reason is some of the shoes that were under $100 have moved into the over $100 so there's more of an offering there.
But we also -- we're doing a good job with Converse and the Chucks.
And they're some of our largest group of lower than $100 shoes.
But the growth is coming in the greater than $100 for us because there are more shoes there and there's more going on.
With regards to inflation on costs the cost for the shoes for the fall season is pretty well baked.
We've already signed the purchase orders and those are done.
And again as I said we've work with the vendors.
We're seeing some pressure.
Lauren talked about a little bit of pressure on margin but it's manageable at this point because the prices have gone up.
And it gets to your last comment the customer has been willing to pay for the higher prices.
I think there will be -- the big jump in inflation probably has occurred but there will still be some continued cost pressure because of wages and things like that back with the manufacturers.
But the customer is willing to pay for those high-end shoes.
And in fact that's where some of the larger increases have occurred because of the demand for them.
And it hasn't slowed the demand.
But we're also seeing even with higher prices on a lot of the Lightweight technology the customer has -- demand has not slowed down for those shoes either.
And our next question comes from Robbie Ohmes from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick follow-ups.
Can you -- will you guys quantify for us the sort of ASP component to that great same-store sales number you put up? No.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us if it's more than half of the comp for the quarter ASPs? We had increases in average selling price.
We had increases in traffic.
We had increases in conversion.
So all the elements went the right way.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then for fall you mentioned that you're pleased with the product lineup for fall and holiday.
Is there anything new coming in on the apparel side that you can call out? Well we're -- you're seeing more -- obviously the NFL is a big plus NBA.
The Lightweight isn't just shoes the uniforms that the Olympic team wore were over 1 pound less.
I mean I didn't even know they weighed a pound.
But over 1 pound less than the old Olympic uniforms.
And so we're excited about new technology in apparel.
There's some new looks coming.
Jordan’s got some strong items that we think will be very very good.
And as their largest retailer we feel good about what we have coming from Jordan.
And then there's new technology in shoes the whole Lunar idea Nike+ miCoach.
That technology is something that the customer is learning about and starting to get excited about.
So beyond -- it's not just they're lightweight there's technology and stuff.
Probably though the biggest thing that's exciting about both in apparel and in shoes is color.
Right now color is hot.
You look at -- we ran the ASICS Colors That Run and we have terrific colors from Nike and Adidas.
And New Balance has some phenomenal color shoes.
You couldn't miss the color in the Olympics.
No.
And you couldn't miss the color in the Olympics that's right.
But that is one of the things that's really excited about what we're seeing because people need -- they've got to have 3 and 4 different pair of shoes to go with the different outfits.
Our next question comes from Joseph Parkhill from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious if you could talk about your decision not to pass through some prices what areas you didn't think you could and the reason behind that given that your total comps are so strong.
Well I think quite frankly that's one of the reasons why we didn't pass through all the prices.
I mean there's some shoes that they go over a natural price point or because of comparisons to other shoes and what the competition is offering it just isn't appropriate to take up enough to capture and recognize that that was only a small part.
This is not a huge issue but it's something that is real.
But in order to keep the sales and in order to drive the leverage that we've got there was -- and it's all very selective on the item decisions and again working with the vendors because we are in a competitive market.
We can't raise a price on a shoe and a competitor have the same shoe at a lower price and be competitive.
So we've got -- we watch the market very closely to make sure that we have competitive prices so that we can drive sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then from -- just from -- I mean I know it's just a small part but that headwind would most likely weigh in as we head into 2013 even expect price increases coming given commodity costs or...
Say again? Research Division</strong> Would you expect some of your price increases to slow heading into 2013? No.
Research Division</strong> No? I think that based upon the business and what's happening what I think you will see is more value.
There's more being put into the product.
And so while the price may go up the customer is willing to pay for it either because of the look the technology or whatever.
So there will be some continued price increases.
I don't think it will be at the rate that it has been.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> The apparel strengths during the quarter was great to see.
But I think in Lauren's prepared comments she noted that the merchandise margins in apparel were still below that of footwear.
And I just was wondering is it a matter of accelerating the sales in the full price sell-through of apparel to get those margins above that of footwear? Or is there still mix changes that you're making in apparel? And can you update us on your view of private label? Kate it's really 3 things.
One is the shoe margins continue to improve so that it's chasing something.
Two there are some things that we're looking at in terms of mix as we continue to exit some of the lower-margin commodity businesses that we did in the past and move into more branded and more performance-driven apparel.
And the third thing is and we're in the process of doing this is developing a more -- a stronger more effective private label program where we can get stronger margins on our own private label.
So it's putting all 3 of those elements together.
I'd say the first one I don't want to change.
I want to keep chasing the footwear.
But the last 2 getting that mix right with our brands and building a private label business that's more effective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my second question and I know you're still in the very early stages of your new concepts in ladies and the changes that you're making at Lady Foot Locker but is the thinking with the other concept you announced today if it works would that be a replacement? Or would that be in addition to Lady Foot Locker? And with regards to again the new concept are we -- can we expect to see other brands that you don't currently carry? And is the store going to be bigger or smaller on a square footage basis? The store will be bigger.
It will be focused on the brands that we have.
But it will have more because it is bigger it will have more product and product that you might -- or that I know you wouldn't see in a Lady Foot Locker or other places just because it will be big enough to hold more of it.
We will have to see the performance versus Lady Foot Locker.
There may be room for both or we may have to choose between the 2.
Right now it's a gleam in the eye.
And I'll feel better about what's happening.
I've seen the new Lady Foot Locker the 14 prototypes and it looks very good.
Now we've got to see how it performs.
And we'll do this new store the renderings and the floor plan and everything look great.
Now we've got to see how it looks on the floor and how the customer responds to it.
Our next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
When you made that comment about quarter-to-date trends shifts in the calendar tax-free holidays can you just clarify what that is and how much of an impact if you could quantify that has on that double-digit performance? There are always changes one state will move up and there are only a couple of states where the tax freeze really do matter and they are comped to last year.
And we've had a shift in a launch shoe that we've moved up a little bit but then we've got some other launches that are coming.
So I would say it's a nominal difference.
And I could tell you at the end of the month whether it was more positive or negative.
But it's just -- some things got moved up and some things got moved back.
We think they offset each other come but not sure exactly how much.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then I guess I'm curious with regards to some of the prototypes in the talk Foot Locker and Champs.
And I guess Lauren your comment about how we start to think about CapEx in upcoming years you must be encouraged by at least some of the things you're seeing and some things you're developing.
And can you maybe just talk for just little bit on what that might be what they might be and how quickly potentially if it does work in check you can ramp up those remodels? I mean are we talking several hundred a year? I mean just any -- I know it's a little ahead of the game but just any thoughts there.
Well we're pleased with some of the early rollouts and some are more extensive than others.
And they happen -- Champs is more extensive than Kids.
And so they -- there are several variables that are included.
One is how good they perform.
If they're off the wall we'll move faster than if they're just good.
So that will be a determining factor.
Two is for some of these like Champs we've got to close a store for a period of time.
You guys are pretty tough and we close bunch of stores.
There's a negative there and we don't get the positive quite as quickly so we've got to manage that.
And the third is just our capability to absorb all this.
This is a lot.
But we would like to think -- and in fact one of the things that we've reviewed are different scenarios kind of low medium and high of what we can and can't do and within each of the different divisions.
And so depending on what the reads are we'll make a determination.
One we may move out faster than another because it's stronger.
But right now we think that they at least look promising.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I have just real quick here.
On the second quarter does -- when certain brands maybe grow faster call it maybe Nike which theoretically might have lower product margins than other brands or certain concept Kids versus your core Foot Locker chain or Champs grow faster does that have an impact to some degree on your product margin rate? Does that have any impact on the second quarter? Well all of those things are elements to mix.
But I think it's pretty granular to sort of pick all that apart.
I mean there's all factors but we don't disclose them.
We manage them.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
As long as it generates high gross profit dollars then it all leverages to the bottom line.
Exactly.
Our next question comes from John Zolidis from Buckingham Research.
Most of my questions have been already asked and answered.
But I just want to confirm Ken that you think that footwear ASPs can continue to rise in FY '13.
And then I guess why do you -- what do you think is going to be the main driver of that? Well I think it will be moderated some.
It's not going to be huge increases.
But the reason I think they can rise there's a couple of reasons.
One is the value that they're putting in the product there's new technology new looks new ideas and so the customers want those.
And the second is the customer demand is there.
We're seeing the increases and the response to the customer for the new product is strong.
So I think that they will continue to react positively as long as we continue to offer great product for them.
Our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions real quick.
On the gross margin Lauren how did the FX affect the gross margin by itself? FX $15 million to gross margin.
Research Division</strong> And then just to clarify Ken I think there's -- when you talk about your margins there's a big difference between your initial markup and your markup on goods sold I assume and your cleaner inventories and everything.
Despite the fact that your IMUs may not be increasing as greatly as they used to your markup on goods sold is higher because you're running a cleaner faster-turning inventory.
Is that just the right way to think about it? Yes.
The squeeze is on IMU not necessarily on the margins.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Because I think people are confused about how you're speaking about it so I mean just to be clear...
That's helpful.
Because yes when we're talking about the IMU squeeze as opposed to the gross margin squeeze because we continue through better planning and allocation fewer markdowns a cleaner inventory to deliver good margins.
That's the dynamic.
You've got pressure on IMUs.
It's that just more pressure to do a good job in managing the inventory so your markdowns are lower therefore your margins are better.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I know exactly.
And then lastly on the apparel initiatives that you're working on I noticed in -- I was out in the store in Smith Haven.
Are you working on basically getting most out of the nested tables and doing more hanging which will free up salespeople present the product better and help drive better sales in apparel? We're playing down significantly those commodity products that are not -- or don't really quite frankly fit with what we're trying to do.
And that's what those big tables were for.
So you're going to see more presentation more coordination more fashion product than just cotton by the pound.
Research Division</strong> And that's mostly going to be hanging.
A lot of it will be hanging.
I mean one of the things that you will see you go in the store and just look up at the walls and you see the T-shirts.
And the T-shirts will still be on the tables but the customer uses like a menu "I see that okay that's the one I want here it is " and shopping that way.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> What you've given us essentially is the outline of an overarching theme of an evolving Foot Locker.
I'm not going to ask you to give us the new 5-year plan.
But essentially the company you're saying is going to be transformed over the next 3 to 5 years through the rollout of new prototypes.
Could you just give us in the broadest brush terms what you think this is going to mean in terms of an evolution over a several-year period? Well the thing obviously with more exciting engaging store environments a much stronger Direct-to-Customer business be it mobile or online a better connection between those 2 a much stronger element of quality that we will be positioned for the long term.
We've had the same format in our stores for 20 years.
We've not -- we in the past did not have our channels connected.
We now are working recognizing that the customer wants the great environment wants the channels connected wants to have the information wants to have and is willing to pay for quality performance product and fashion and look that that will position us for much longer than what we're going to do the next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Essentially you're also saying that Foot Locker in the past had a homogenous offering and you're going to more lifestyle so there's going to be a greater variety of product offered in the athletic footwear-inspired business.
What are your thoughts with respect to how the mall will be changing with respect to athletic products? Well I think the customer's looking for alternatives and places that they can go to to get product that's both exciting and also fashion performance all of those things together.
There's a great trend.
You look at what people are wearing now they're wearing more active apparel.
We're fitting in with that and we're the place to go for brands.
And I think the mall will be an important element of that.
But you've got to connect it with the broader assortments and information that we have online.
"Well I need a different size I want a different color I want something." We offer that capability.
"I want to know more about what this shoe does for me whether I pronate or supinate.
I want to know was this the shoe that Durant wore when he won the World Cup." All of those different things are elements of where we're working.
And I think that these pieces while they're individual when you put them together will provide that exciting new environment and connectivity for our customers.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask one other question with regard to handhelds? Finish Line Macy's Nordstrom say they have handhelds that will provide inventory information within the stores and the ability to find the item color size in another store if it's unavailable at a particular store or to have it shipped from a distribution center or another store to fulfill the order.
Is Foot Locker equipped to do that now? Yes.
We have -- our handhelds do both administrative jobs inventory receiving the packages.
But they also -- and the ones we have and we're testing a couple different versions of them which is one of the reasons we haven't rolled out is trying to make them more functional and easier for the associate and the customer to use that will provide whether or not I have it in the back room so I don't -- "I'm sorry ma'am.
I don't have that in 7.5 but I've got it in an 8.
It runs a small.
If you'd like I could go get that or I have it in this color." So they can do that selling right on the selling floor help them.
The second thing it will allow them to do is "We don't have it here but the Foot Locker down the street has it.
You can go there and I can reserve it for you or I can have it shipped to your home or shipped to the store." And it can also -- "Oh you'd like to know a little bit about that shoe how much it weighs here's the information on that." So provide all of that right there in the associate's hand to be able to deal with [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> I'm very pleased that you've clarified that and it's clear that you're not being left behind at all.
And our last question is from Omar Saad from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Sam Lee in for Omar.
Ken I have a couple of questions.
It seems like in the U.S.
in particular you guys are nicely outperforming relative to your competitors.
Are you seeing a similar relative outperformance in Europe? Or can you speak to sort of what you're seeing in the region? I would say that we are performing as well as most people there.
But Europe's a different environment.
Because in Europe we're the only real pan-European retailer in our space and there are local ones in each country.
And so in some countries we're doing very well.
In other countries there might be a competitor that's doing as well or possibly even better than us.
So it's difficult to say across the board we're doing better or worse.
I would say that we are doing as well as on average as any of the competition.
It's a challenging environment for everybody.
One of the things that's happening is there's a lot of impact on some of the weaker merchants and a number of them are going under.
And in fact there's been quite a bit of press about the U.K.
I will tell you we're doing much better than what some of the press has been written about some of the competition in the U.K.
So I would say we're doing as well if not a little better in Europe than most of our competitors.
But it's not a pan-European it's country-by-country.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And my second question was on the Nike Flyknit.
I think previously you had indicated that you expected to have the shoe in select Foot Locker stores.
I was wondering if you'd be willing to share sort of your initial reads on that particular product and sort of where you think it could trend over time.
I think the product will be terrific.
I think it offers a lot in terms of look weight performance.
But I can't tell you how it performs because we don't have any yet.
We're getting them in some select stores as you said in the different chains and in the different countries in the next couple of months.
But I wish we could have a lot more.
I wish I could tell you but I haven't had any yet.
But I feel very good about the product.
All right.
That's all we have time for now.
Thanks again for your participation on today's call.
We look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9:00 a.m.
on Friday November 16 following the release of our third quarter and year-to-date earnings earlier  that morning.
Thanks again and goodbye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Foot Locker's Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to the Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Foot Locker Inc.'s Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This morning we reported earnings per share of $0.70 in the third quarter on a GAAP basis driven by a comparable sales gain of 4.1%.
For the first 9 months of the year Foot Locker has achieved a comparable sales gain of 3.7% with flat gross margin leading to an earnings per share total of $2.04 an increase of 7% over the same period in 2012.
Year-to-date net income was $308 million up from last year's record net income performance of $293 million.
As noted both in today's release and during our call 3 months ago we realized a onetime foreign tax benefit that added approximately $0.02 a share to this quarter's earnings.
Adjusting for that tax benefit as well as Runners Point Group integration expenses in the third quarter of approximately $1 million after tax we generated non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.68 an 8% increase over last year's non-GAAP earnings in Q3 of $0.63 per share.
Third quarter results brings our year-to-date non-GAAP earnings to $310 million or $2.05 per share compared to $283 million or $1.83 last year a 12% increase.
In this morning's press release we have included a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation reflecting the tax in RPG adjustments.
This morning we'll begin our prepared remarks with Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will recap our third quarter and year-to-date financial results; Dick Johnson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer will provide insight into the major product themes that drove our business in the quarter; and we'll conclude the prepared portion of our call with Ken Hicks Foot Locker's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer who will provide an update on the execution of our key strategies and progress towards our long-term goals.
We will allow time for questions following your prepared -- our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] After the financial recap let me turn the call over to Lauren.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I appreciate that you are joining us this morning.
As John mentioned we generated a 4.1% comparable sales gain in the third quarter in line with our previous guidance and with a solid result especially coming as it did on top of last year's strong 10.2% comp gain.
Many of the sales trends we have discussed with you earlier in the year remains intact in the third quarter.
For example our Direct-to-Customer business continues to be the fastest-growing segment with a comp gain of 13.7%.
Within the Direct-to-Customer segment our store banner.com business was up 40% again this quarter.
Eastbay was up mid-single digits and CCS' sales were down in the quarter.
Within the store segment our kids business was also very strong again across all our banners that sell children's product.
Kids Foot Locker itself was up high-single digits.
Elsewhere in the U.S.
the domestic division that rebounded the most in Q3 was Foot Locker which was up strong mid-single digits after being down last quarter.
Footaction's comp was flat for the quarter an improvement from its second quarter performance.
Lady Foot Locker had a mid-single-digit comp decline while Champs Sports which was again actively remodeling stores during the quarter comps down slightly.
Outside the U.S.
Foot Locker Europe continued to post solid gains in the mid-single-digit range with 15 of the 19 countries we operate in comping positive.
While Germany was one of the strongest performers Spain and Italy were 2 of the exceptions.
The Runners Point Group posted a solid mid-single-digit comp gain led by their online business and the Sidestep banner.
Please note however that RPG sales are not yet part of our comparable store sales base.
With 20 more Foot Locker stores open in Europe now compared to a year ago and with the inclusion a full quarter of RPG sales approximately $72 million our total sales in Europe increased more than 25% in Q3.
Rounding out our international businesses Foot Locker Asia Pacific was up mid-single digits while Foot Locker Canada was down low-single digit.
For the third quarter sales gains were driven by average selling prices which were up low- to mid-single digits depending on category.
Footwear units were also up although units were down on apparel and accessories as we continue our transition to premium assortments away from more basic product.
For the quarter as a whole traffic was down slightly although the trends did turn positive in October which we believe bodes well for the holiday season.
Turning to our families of business.
Another trend that continued in the third quarter was that our sales were led by footwear with a mid-single digit comp gain.
Apparel and accessories were down low-single digits.
Within footwear kids increased the most up double digit while men's footwear was up mid-single digits.
Women's footwear on the other hand declined at a high-single-digit pace.
Men's footwear was led by basketball which was up double digits.
Running was up mid-single digits as well led by strength internationally and in our direct business.
Our casual category was down overall although as Dick will mention shortly there were important elements of success within that category too.
As previewed on last quarter's call August comps were up mid-single digits.
September was up slightly and October's comp was a very encouraging high-single-digit gain.
In fact all of our divisions except CCS comped positive in October.
As you know all the big volume weeks in the fourth quarter are still ahead of us.
However our comp gain for the first 2 weeks of November continued at a mid-single-digit pace.
After that our results are not really comparable since this week last year was Thanksgiving week and we were well along into our very successful Week of Greatness.
This year's version of the Week of Greatness officially starts tomorrow although we actually have some great product releases from Nike and Reebok starting today.
Moving on to gross margin.
Our rate was flat in the third quarter at 33.1%.
Again many of the same dynamics were at work in the third quarter that we have mentioned in previous calls.
First we did leverage our fixed occupancy and buying costs by 10 basis points.
Recall that we had a significant sale shift where it's about $36 million out of Q3 into Q2 due to last year's 53rd week so we were pleased that we were able to produce this leverage.
Second similar to our experience in Q2 our initial markup rate declined 30 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
We did manage to lower our mark-down rate almost enough to offset this IMU pressure.
In the end merchandise margin dropped 10 basis points leaving the overall gross margin rate flat.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Our rate edged up 10 basis points to 21% from 20.9% in last year's third quarter.
We mentioned in last quarter's call that it would be difficult to achieve leverage in Q3 due to the sales shift.
However excluding RPG our base business did achieve leverage of about 40 basis points despite the shift.
On a full year basis our SG&amp;A rate has improved 30 basis points inclusive of RPG.
Depreciation expense was $35 million in the quarter $5 million higher than last year.
Depreciation for the base business was expected to and did increase by about $3 million due to remodeling and other investments we are making in our store fleet as well as in various digital and technology initiatives.
The incremental $2 million in depreciation was related to the assets we have acquired with the Runners Point business.
Our tax rate came in at 35% in the quarter up from 31.7% last year.
As John noted this quarter we recorded a $0.02 a share benefit related to lowering our foreign tax provision.
This compares to last year's third quarter when we recorded a $0.06 a share benefit.
Without these onetime benefits our tax rate would have approximated to 37% run rate that we plan for our business.
Our pretax income of $160 million in the third quarter was $5 million higher than last year although net income was actually slightly below last year due to the larger tax benefit a year ago.
Nonetheless EPS this quarter was up to a record $0.70 as a result of the $167 million we have spent to buy back 4.8 million shares since the beginning of the year including $67 million that we spent in the third quarter.
Our non-GAAP earnings of $0.68 was also a record.
As I mentioned we continue to execute our various capital expenditure initiatives including remodels new stores and upgrades to our online mobile and systems capabilities.
Year-to-date we have spent $157 million in capital.
We currently expect capital expenditures this year to end up around $210 million slightly below the $220 million target we set at the beginning of the year.
The difference relates mainly to cost efficiencies that we have taken advantage of as we ramp up our remodel program.
We have maintained the pace of investment in our growth initiatives.
Inventory increased just over 6% in the quarter to $1.3 billion about even with our overall sales gain of 6.4%.
However excluding Runners Point Group inventory and using constant currencies our inventory was up just 1.2% compared to our 4.1% comp gain.
We believe that our inventory position going into the holiday season is in good shape to facilitate full-price selling similar to what we executed in the third quarter.
We believe we're on track in Q4 to deliver on our full year guidance of a mid-single-digit comparable sales gain and a double-digit percentage EPS increase.
That guidance was based on a non-GAAP 52-week EPS result of $2.47 in 2012.
Now to tell you about the product highlights in the third quarter here's Dick.
Thanks Lauren.
Since you already provided high-level statistics about our third quarter sales results let me dive deeper into what was working and what was not.
Basketball footwear was up double digits and the single biggest driver was brand Jordan.
When you have as many different banners and geographies as we do there can be some exceptions to such statements.
But one thing was consistent for all of our male banners across of the globe Jordan product was a very big hit with our customers.
Whether it was Jordan performance product the very strong retro releases or the Jordan footwear classics the brand delivered powerful growth.
And it wasn't just in footwear.
Jordan apparel such as tees shorts and fleece that hook to the shoes performed very well as did accessories such as socks.
The U.S.
Europe Canada and Asia Pacific all had big gains in Jordan.
Foot Locker and Champs Sports also had strong basketball gains in Nike performance and marquee player shoes from Lebron KD and Kobe.
From Adidas D.
Rose is making a good comeback both on the court and with the signature shoes in our stores and I don't think he has nearly reached his peak in either area.
Running footwear was also up although in running there has been a bit of a shift in the preferences of our consumers.
Nike Free sales are still increasing while growth has slowed in some of the technical brands such as ASICS and Mizuno.
Sales of these brands are still on the rise and we're optimistic about the Kayano 20 from ASICS and the Prophecy 3.0 from Mizuno.
At the same time innovative new products such as BOOST and SpringBlade from Adidas and Flyknit and Roshe Run from Nike have definitely been a big hit with our customers.
We continue to see strength in sales of these fresh new products.
Our casual footwear sales were down overall.
We continue to see a slowdown in Converse and seasonal products such as sandals and slides.
We did experience increased sales of vulcanized product from Vans and Nike SB as our customers continue to shift into these newer lifestyle programs.
Ironically some of the so-called newer programs are actually reintroductions of classic styles.
For example in addition to Vans we've seen good life in New Balance especially in 574s and in Timberland.
The early strength of the Timberland business is making us more optimistic about boots during the upcoming season.
As Lauren called out apparel and accessories were down a bit.
Jordan brand apparel was up and we still sell a lot of branded tees and shorts.
The uniform of the kid hasn't changed dramatically but the looks and style are shifting a bit.
We're working to adjust to these changes.
We're continuing to offer premium differentiated athletic product in our stores and online and we feel we are positioning our apparel assortments well telling different stories for each banner going forward.
We are also seeing a nice apparel lift in most of our remodeled stores which we believe also bodes well for the future as we roll out more of the new formats going into the holidays and next year.
On the Accessories front premium socks continue to do well.
I mentioned Jordan already along with Nike Elite and other performance socks.
Our kid is finding new ways to differentiate himself whether that's with knit hats which are a big trend right now or with a premium backpack that often hooks to the key color waves of our footwear and apparel.
In terms of apparel sales penetration although we've gone slightly backwards recently we still believe in the long-term opportunity to build apparel and accessories back up to around the 30% level it was a decade ago.
And the margins can improve even further as we elevate our apparel assortments to tell the targeted premium stories our customers expect from each of our banners.
Before I turn it over to Ken let me update you a bit on the women's business.
As we said Lady Foot Locker comped down at a mid-single-digit pace in the quarter.
Unfortunately we didn't really pick up that business in our other banners where the women's business overall was also down.
That said our women's business did increase internationally and online so we know the potential is there.
Moreover we continue to get good results from our SIX:02 and parks format Lady Foot Locker stores.
The parks format is what we previously called our reskinned Lady Foot Locker doors.
We have 6 SIX:02 doors currently operating with 1 more opening next week.
We also have 19 parks format stores.
Both types of stores are comping up which is good news but we're continuing to make adjustments to both formats as we need to optimize their performance before we decide on our rollout strategy.
For example the newer SIX:02 stores are a bit smaller than the original stores and we have rearranged the apparel collections to display the product by category instead of by brand to better align with the way she shops.
We plan to continue building the SIX:02 brand developing the associate culture and reaching out to the local communities where we have stores.
We believe that over time we'll be helped significantly by the recent launch of the SIX:02 website which should enable a much wider audience of women to connect with the brand.
Our focus remains on an athletically active young woman.
She works out perhaps by running taking a spin class yoga dance or CrossFit training.
She wants to look good while she does her activity.
She needs the right fit and she expects here to have the latest performance attributes to help her reach her fitness goals.
We are doing quite well with that product while transitioning away from the lifestyle or pure fashion product that we typically sold at Lady Foot Locker.
Meanwhile we are working to improve the performance of the rest of the Lady Foot Locker chain.
We are testing additional merchandise changes in our top doors which are working well so far.
We'll continue to close or improve underperforming stores as we position ourselves for a decision point on our rollout plan for SIX:02 or Lady Foot Locker or potentially both.
With that summary I'll turn the program over to Ken.
Thanks Dick.
And I'd like to welcome you all to the call.
Thank you for joining us.
I want to first thank everyone at Foot Locker team for the results we announced today because it certainly took a team effort to produce the very solid quarter we did in the challenging retail environment we're facing.
I was particularly pleased that we produced our 15th consecutive quarter of sales and EPS growth both on a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis.
With the record non-GAAP performance we achieved last third quarter and the $0.06 tax benefit we recorded on a GAAP basis it was a big challenge to improve over last year.
But we pulled together as a team drove improved sales momentum in most divisions worked hard to flow the exciting new product from our vendors to our stores or directly to our customers kept our margins steady told strong marketing stories invested in our associates in order to enhance our in-store effectiveness began integrating a significant acquisition and utilized our strong financial position to buy back shares of our stock all of which together contributed to achieving another quarter of sales and EPS gains.
It was an impressive team effort.
I think Lauren and Dick covered most of the important details of our third quarter results so I'll just touch on a few points before getting to your questions.
First Runners Point.
The integration is going well.
We've already started testing some banner repositioning that we think makes sense.
We're not going to jump into any major changes yet since Foot Locker Europe and Runners Point Group both make money.
There's no need to do anything quickly without testing it first.
Runners Point Group did not make enough money in the third quarter to significantly impact our overall business.
But the fact remains that it did make money which is a good result for any acquisition in its first full quarter of operation.
Second we've opened 77 stores relocated 64 and remodeled 207 stores so far in 2013.
We continue to get good list from the remodel projects we undertook this year.
In most cases the stores are outperforming the productivity standards we established for them.
We've completed about 10% of the Foot Locker fleet in the U.S.
between 10% and 15% of the Champs fleet and most of the Kids Foot Locker stores.
The vast majority of this year's projects are done now and we set up for the big holiday selling season.
We'll read the results over the fourth quarter before recommending to our board the specific levels of capital expenditures we want to devote to remodeling projects in 2014.
But from what I can see so far I would expect the pace to be similar to this year.
We also continue to roll out various shop-in-shop initiatives.
We ended the third quarter with 112 House of Hoops locations: 103 in the U.S.
7 in Europe and 2 in Canada.
We also now have 5 Nike Yardlines in Champs Sports and 5 Adi collective stores in Footaction.
And just this week we opened our first Nike Fly Zone in a Kids Foot Locker in New Jersey.
Finally let me emphasize a point Lauren made earlier which is that our Direct-to-Customer results continue to be very strong.
We aren't yet to the point where store banner.com sales are 10% of our banner's total sales but another quarter of 40% growth means we're definitely getting closer.
We're also now getting even faster growth in our Footlocker.com business in Europe.
We're making the necessary investments to produce the best customer experience across the digital space both online and mobile.
Our customers want to interact with our brands everywhere: mobile online and in stores.
And they expect nothing less than complete integration from us.
We're also leveraging the powerful Eastbay brand driving sales gains both digitally and through our team sales efforts.
We're developing new and innovative ways to take advantage of our brand assets as we position our Direct-to-Customer business to continue leading our sales growth in the future.
To sum up we're excited about our opportunity to close out the year with another solid quarter.
Lauren mentioned this mid-single-digit gain we're running through the first couple of weeks which is a good way to start any month.
But I want to echo our caution that the heavy lifting is still ahead of us.
That said we're poised to jump-start the Week of Greatness today with the great product releases from Nike and Reebok.
And tomorrow we continue with exciting launches by Jordan and Adidas and it pretty much goes on all next week.
In fact I know we're calling it the Week of Greatness but with the significantly shorter selling period between Thanksgiving and Christmas this year I think we're set to keep up a good steady pace all through December.
In the current retail environment though we define a good month as a comp gain in the low-mid-single digits and that's still how we're planning the quarter.
Finally our record performance this past quarter and so far this year supports our team's confidence that the ongoing careful execution of our current strategic initiatives combined with our vision and our core values will enable us to continue lifting our results towards the long-term financial and operational goals we set at the beginning of last year.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to the operator so we can get to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Also Dick you are hitting it on the nose and that Derrick Rose has not come close to showing what he's capable of doing on the court.
But turning to the business could you just speak a little bit more about the adjustments that you are making on apparel? And you keep speaking about elevating the assortment both from an apparel and footwear standpoint to premium products.
Are you leaving dollars on the table by perhaps not having more opening price point items? The adjustments we're talking about are as we continue to grow our branded apparel business we have significantly reduced our position in some of those opening price points.
That said we still have tees at 4 for $25.
We have thermals.
We have opening price hoodies.
So I don't think we're giving up that business we're just reducing it.
We continue to work with our vendors to develop stronger assortments with -- in each of the brands.
Our new formats that we're putting in place help us call out apparel more.
And one of the things we see is stronger apparel selling as a result of that in those remodeled stores which is one of the reasons we want to move on that.
Also the new initiatives such as House of Hoops Yardline the Adi collective also allow us to have a stronger apparel position.
Dick I don't know if you want to...
No I think that sums it up.
And on the footwear side we talked about the Roshe Run I mean which is a great entry-level price point that the kids are very excited about.
So I think the combination of a stronger brand in apparel business the right entry level price point apparel pieces and great footwear across the price spectrum is really what's building our assortment the way it is.
Research Division</strong> And just my follow-up will be on the Champs banner.
You've done I don't know 10% to 15% remodel 10% to 15% of that banner yet sales were still down slightly.
Can you just speak to the weakness? And then also what is the relative gap of outperformance of the Champs that have been remodeled? One of the challenges with the Champs remodels as we've talked about is that there's some closures involved with that.
So as we ramped up the construction or the remodel program in Q3 there were weeks of closures based in those remodeled doors.
And we haven't talked publicly about the lift that we're getting but it's meeting all of our financial thresholds that we set in our process.
So we're very optimistic about the Champs remodels and it's just a matter of getting enough of them open and not having them -- having others closed during the remodel process that we're looking forward to.
Our next question comes from Seth Sigman from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions about the women's business.
I guess first the Lady Foot Locker comps look like they were down mid-single digit in Q3.
But overall footwear for women I think it was down high-single digits.
So any color there would be helpful on what's driving that delta.
And then I guess second any more color on how the reskinned Lady Foot Locker stores are doing and SIX:02 is doing versus the overall lady's base at this point.
I'll do the footwear and then let Dick talk about the reskins and SIX:02.
One of the challenges we've got with the women's footwear is we are making a much stronger positioning in the performance footwear and significantly downplaying the fashion.
As we make that shift it takes longer for the customer to find you with what you have new.
But they can't buy what you don't have.
So we're going through that transition now.
We have said and know that transition will take some time.
What we are seeing our performance business is actually performing very well it's just not offsetting the decline that we have as we pull away from the fashion business.
I think if we look at the SIX:02 and the parks format stores as we get the merchandise assortment right we feel very comfortable.
And as I said in my prepared remarks those stores are performing well.
We've got 6 SIX:02s opened.
I was off by about a week I think on the opening date.
The seventh one opens actually in early December rather than next week.
But we're very comfortable with where they're performing.
And the additional tests that we've got going on is the merchandise tests across some of our better stores where we're distorting the performance in active apparel and as Ken said moving away from some of those fashion silhouettes.
So the initial results that we're seeing are positive.
And we were looking to make a decision sometime next year as we watch the performance as we develop our rollout plan and our strategy to roll out either SIX:02 or Lady Foot Locker.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi.
This is Corinna Van der Ghinst for Kate.
Can you please remind us where the European margins are now versus the U.S.
how much opportunity you still see to take those up and how you plan to drive the margin expansion there? We don't disclose the margins of the international business versus domestic.
But historically when we talk about merchandise margins less promotional in our international business as opposed to the U.S.
Certainly our growth there store count expansion helps with that.
Okay.
And I just wanted to clarify Lauren that you now expect full year comps up mid-single digits not low end of mid-single digits as you had last guided? Ken said full year guidance is low-mid-single digit.
Which by the way is mid-single digits.
It's just we're in mid-single digits we are.
Our next question comes from Robbie Ohmes from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Hey Ken I was hoping you could talk a little more about the initial markup rate outlook and sort of remind us when that could be anniversary-ed or what could cause it to go lower or higher from here.
And then just a separate follow-up would just be a question on how you're thinking about maintaining the momentum in kids? Will that become more challenging against tough comparisons? And then as you look at holiday there's a lot of noise out there about video game consoles.
And I'm just curious if you guys had a comment on those and what that impact is on your core sort of teenage customer.
Yes the initial markup rate is something that we work with the vendors to make sure we've got the products priced properly.
As the products -- since the products were forward bought in most cases there are adjustments that occur from time to time.
I think there will continue to be pressure on the markups.
But we're working with the vendors to minimize those and keep those as tight as possible.
So I don't see a big shift one way or the other but I do see us continuing to work and we may pick up 1/10 one quarter and lose 1/10 to another quarter.
But it's going to be -- it shouldn't be unless there's a major dislocation a major adjustment one way into the other.
With the kids business there's no question that we've had a good run.
One of the reasons that we remodeled the stores was to make sure that we maintain that run by expanding the assortment both in shoes and apparel.
And so I foresee -- I see based upon what we're doing there for the near and intermediate term at least continued growth in kids.
We have a trend going on where the kids are -- more people are shopping with their kids with us.
Dick and I were actually in a number of kids stores yesterday and they were very busy people bringing their kids to make sure that they have the best shoes possible.
And the new format allows us to show more apparel and grow that part of the children's business which historically had been the smallest penetrated apparel business that we had.
So the kids business I think see knock wood continued strength there.
And then finally the video games and stuff the kid obviously spending money on those.
They're big numbers.
Fortunately some of the biggest elements have already passed and we had a reasonable result.
So I guess they aren't spending money on something but they're buying both video games and sneakers which is I prefer the speakers first but it has not had an impact to date on our business.
And we think that will weather because they only do this every so many years.
We have sneaker releases more frequently than that.
Our next question comes from Camilo Lyon from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> I wanted -- Dick I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks that there was an apparel shift on the trend.
If you could just give a little bit more color as to what that shift is what parts of the apparel business it's impacting and if that at all impacts the margin potential that you have in the category.
The big shift is a little bit in the T-shirt business and the fleece business going from verbiage tees to more clean graphic sort of impressions on the T-shirts.
And it's a somewhat normal cycle and we just have to make sure that we get the inventory positioned accordingly.
So -- but still T-shirts fleece and shorts that the core customers are buying it's just a question of how they're embellished.
And we work with our vendors to bring the best graphics and the best possible representations on those pieces.
So I think we're in good shape and I think we're getting the assortment balanced with where the kid is shopping.
The other thing Camilo I think that's important to understand is our private label had historically been very much commodity oriented.
And one of the things that we're doing now is making a transition from that.
And again that takes time as we build up our actual brand in women as we build the Sneaker Freak line in Europe.
And those have both been accepted very well.
Our Champs Sports gear in apparel is doing well.
And so we continue to make adjustments to that business.
And so the transition is we've grown the branded -- or transition is growing at the -- getting our private brand back on track and making progress there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on -- I just wanted to have a point of clarification on the current month-to-date comp.
I think you said mid-single digits to the first 2 weeks.
If we're talking about the current quarter-to-date comp are you not providing that simply because the comparisons would skew downward with this week but then skew massively upwards with the following week? Am I thinking about that comparisons correctly? Yes through the early part of this week things were open.
Yesterday we were closed.
And so when we look at the number we had a hell of a day yesterday comp-wise.
It's just not comparative once you get to Wednesday Thursday of this week because we're up against Thanksgiving.
And then next week it won't be comparative because we have Thanksgiving against non-Thanksgiving.
So through the -- we thought it better to just through the first 2 weeks of this calendar weeks of this month just staying they were reasonably comparative and we were in the solid mid-single-digit range.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And it sounds like there's a good release calendar there ahead to maintain that pace.
We have...
Week of Greatness.
We have a Week of Greatness that actually goes on for more than a week.
We've got the preview starting today and we go on after that.
It's really exciting.
The shoes we got coming are just...
Great ad campaign too yes.
Yes terrific ad campaign if you haven't seen it.
All is right with the world.
Our next question comes from Omar Saad from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on the apparel discussion.
Ken did you talk about how you think about space allocation in the different stores in the different formats? Apparel obviously has different needs than the footwear side of the business.
And of course much of the story is dedicated to footwear of course.
How do you think about being able to merchandise the apparel category effectively across brands and SKUs and silhouettes and sizes and price points et cetera given some of those space constraints or maybe you think about it different brands or offerings in some of the different formats? And then I have one follow-up.
Okay.
We think about the space a lot and it does vary by banner.
And it's one of the reasons with our remodels 2 things that -- or 3 things the remodels really do for us.
One they allow us to tell really good stories about the apparel and things and coordinate the apparel and shoes.
Two they are designed to best fit each of the banner's key characteristics.
We -- if you think about the Champs much stronger in apparel with the shoes down the middle.
By the way putting shoes down the middle on those bleachers didn't hurt the shoes sales which was our concern.
And that's -- so that's good.
Foot Locker showing more how you can hook up the different apparel with the different shoes.
We -- Dick and I last night we're in the new Footaction format and that's much more built around the lifestyle of shoes and apparel.
So the second is making sure that the format fits -- or the layout fits the format in the space allocation fits that.
The third thing is that these are designed to be flexible so that as the business shifts and it could be a shift in the business or it could be a seasonal shift because you have different needs when you're selling hoodies and in the summer when you're selling shorts and T-shirts we're able to make those adjustments and best show the apparel and the shoes to interest the customer.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Ken.
And then if I could on Europe.
I'd like to -- I'd love to hear your thoughts and kind of your long-term vision for the European market.
It's obviously different in a lot of ways.
It's more fragmented in different countries and languages.
You've made the acquisition there.
You have an existing store base.
Is it outrageous to think that the European business given the difference in how it's laid out could look like the U.S.
some day for you guys? Well I think first of all the European business and you called it correctly has differences because of the geography and nationalities.
And so our assortment in Italy looks different than our assortment in Germany and the Foot Locker looks different than our assortment in Great Britain.
And that's one of the challenges that Lew Kimble Campbell and his team have to do is adjust those assortments to the countries.
And since we've done that and actually Dick was the one who started it when he was over there leading our European business we've had a much better performance.
So that's one of the differences.
We still have a number of countries where we're under-penetrated.
And so we see a growth opportunity in developing over there recently in places like Poland and Turkey and the Czech Republic.
And we've got opportunities there.
The thing that I think is interesting with the acquisition and what it gives us is one the ability to strengthen ourselves in the strongest country in Europe.
It was our #3 country it's now moved to our #1 country.
Two a couple of banners that could possibly expand beyond the German borders and give us the opportunity to do something similar to what we're doing in the United States with multiple banners.
I don't think Champs and Footaction translate that well into Europe.
But I do believe that Runners Point and Sidestep can translate beyond just Germany.
And in fact they are to some cases but in Switzerland and Holland.
But that's something that we will determine over time and see.
And the third thing that it really did for us was strengthen our Dot-Com capability with the Tredex acquisition.
So when you look at it I think Europe provides an interesting opportunity for us.
We said on the call it' now up to 25% of the business and the good news is it's performing well.
Our next question comes from Mitch Kummetz from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Let me start with Nike Fly Zone.
You mentioned that.
I think you're talking about one kids store.
Could you just elaborate on that exactly what is that what's of the opportunity for that? And can that go beyond the kids business for you guys? Well it's a transformational space in the Kids Foot Locker store that's really focused on Nike and Jordan basketball product.
If you think about it as a junior version of a House of Hoops I guess is the best way to put it both from a square footage and a product perspective.
So I mean it's targeted at Kids Foot Locker.
We've got one that's open.
We've got 2 more coming.
And as we've done many times we prototype things.
We test them and we develop a rollout plan based on those tests.
So we like what we see so far.
But we're a week into the process at this point.
So I think there is opportunities with the Fly Zone.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Lauren on gross margin how should we be thinking about Q4? I mean Q3 gross margin held up really well despite the shift in sales from Q3 to Q2.
I guess as I'm thinking about the different components of gross margin it seems like as far as buying and occupancy goes maybe you guys can do a little better in Q4 than Q3.
And then on the merchandise margin side I don't know that the situation between markdowns and IMU really changes a lot.
But again I would guess in that gross margin can be a little stronger in Q4 than Q3.
Is that the case or not so? No we certainly won't have the headwinds of the shift in sales.
So yes we should be able to do better on leverage.
Research Division</strong> Anything changing on the merchandise margin side for Q4 versus Q3 that you can see at this point? Yes the dynamics remain the same as what we've described.
So we've got the IMU pressure but we'll continue to feel really good about the position of our inventory and so that should be able to help us on the markdown side.
Our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
The -- can you talk about how you're thinking about buybacks? You stepped up a bit in the quarter.
How that's looking forward? Also how to think about the D&amp;A on a go-forward basis? It came a little higher than what we had anticipated.
And lastly just a clarification on the remodels you did -- you've done this year.
You said 207.
But you said on a prior call you would do 150 in the third quarter which would have gotten you to 270.
So can you tell me what's right and what's wrong there? Let's take our remods first.
Remods relos year-to-date were at 271 right? So that's the number.
And so that's consistent.
You got to add the relos with the remods.
But on the share repurchase what we described at the beginning of the year about our capital allocation plans remains intact.
We really are looking to properly balance between investing in the business and making meaningful returns of cash to the shareholders through both that share repurchase program that we opt at the beginning of the year and the dividend which we've also opt at the beginning of the year.
So yes the pace $100 million in Q2 you'll recall that we were not able to do anything in the first quarter because we were in the middle of an acquisition and $67 million.
So we're on pace at $167 million.
We still have plenty of room to go on the $600 million.
Research Division</strong> And the D&amp;A? Depreciation.
Depreciation and amortization? Yes so as we described $35 million in the quarter an incremental $5 million year-over-year.
3 of that that coming from the CapEx and the other 2 coming from the assets that come with the acquisition.
So that would be the pace.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But looking forward I mean should we be thinking about that as pretty much the number for the time being? That's the pace yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other thing on the remodeled stores.
The -- what is -- has the change -- has there been a big change in the percent of apparel versus pre-remodel? So are you seeing like in the Champs remodel it might have been running at I don't know what the percentage was but has that -- has the footwear apparel percent changed meaningfully there? Can you talk a little bit about that and how that sets up for future expansions and so on? We're seeing the whole ship rise Sam.
So the apparel penetration based on banner a little bit different by banner is up slightly in some not down in any.
And then as Ken mentioned the whole thing we needed to make sure that we protected in a division like Champs is that the footwear business stays where it was.
So we're seeing the remodels lift the whole ship both the apparel and footwear.
Not seeing a significant distortion in the apparel penetration.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> The weather is cooler this fall than a year ago which suggests you should be getting a little bit of a hint of how fleece sales are likely to perform through the end of the year.
Could you give us some insight on that and a little bit of background history regarding apparel sales in the fourth quarter fourth quarter a year ago? Well we're optimistic about fleece.
As you said Bernie the weather is a little bit different this year than last year.
The changes happen month-by-month.
But our initial reads on fleece across brands and private brands has been positive.
And I think that if you reflect back a year ago the Northeast had the big storm early and then the cold snap that brought a lot of snow or significantly colder temperatures a week or 10 days later.
So I think the -- I'm not sure what normal is in terms of weather.
But I think over the course of the fourth quarter it normalizes itself.
And our fleece sales certainly reflect that.
Research Division</strong> And just a clarification.
With regard to share repurchases what was the number that you were talking about for the full year? We did not quote a full year number.
I just reiterated where we are year-to-date $167 million.
Our next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I guess just first on Europe.
I'm just curious there's obviously some new product that's been put into that market Nike and Nike Free the basketball business is working.
Can you maybe just talk about what some things you guys might be doing specifically how much of it is just new product coming into that market and just sort of your comfort and the sustainability of Europe comping? And then lastly I guess Lauren maybe for you what level of comp is needed in Europe to really leverage that business given the store growth you have there? I think it's a combination of things Chris.
I mean if we look at the new product that's coming in if we look at the emphasis on basketball if we look at how important the running silhouette is in Europe those technologies that we talked about launching over here are all important to the success of Europe as well.
When we look at the dispersion of stores by country we don't have -- we've been able to balance a little bit of our store distribution with the acquisition in Germany making that now our largest country probably with the strongest economy certainly in Europe.
So they -- Lew and the team over there has been on a nice positive trend.
And based on the product that we see flowing based on the things that we're doing including some House of Hoops growth over there we've also launched our remodeled Willowbrook format in a couple of test stores in Europe.
So we see the likelihood that they'll continue positive.
The other thing I think that's happening is we're starting to see -- Europe had predominantly been a running market.
And we're starting to see some strengthening in basketball in Europe and obviously that's to our benefit.
Lauren? Yes the dynamic fund on leverage right Europe stores not different than the rest of the fleet and that we can lever low-single-digit comps.
But as you add new stores of course they come with some overhead with them.
But we wouldn't expect those new stores to dilute overall ROS for that chain.
So now you get the benefit as you add a new store in the subsequent years years 2 years 3 that they're now comping and they get greater leverage.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So leverage could really begin to happen at kind of the low-single-digit comp for Europe correct? Yes it's no different than what we expect for the rest of the business.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is RPG accretive in the fourth quarter to the number for Q4? Well on the base business RPG yes but we will have integration costs in the fourth quarter as well.
So it's not going to be a big number in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just -- Ken for you.
One of the things that came out of the Nike Investor Day to me that struck me sort of interesting is they talked about moving to this consumer demand pricing model and highlighted basketball as a key category where they're really going to start testing some better price points.
So as it relates to the IMU discussion and the potential for pricing to get pushed a bit and how you guys think about flowing that through to the consumer within the basketball category be it Nike or Jordan products any kind of early discussions on that and how we should be thinking about it? Yes we talk to them about what we think appropriate price points are for shoes.
And quite frankly we've seen it.
We've seen Foamposites go from $200 and $220 to deuce in a quarter all the way up to $260.
And we haven't seen a slowdown.
So we've been making the adjustments over time.
Interestingly enough at the same time we are working on the other end when you put in things like Roshe making sure that we've got some opening price.
We also are looking at some of the soldier shoes to make sure we've got shoes in that $110 $120 price range.
So we're working with them where appropriate where there's demand where there's a reason taking the prices up but also not leaving everybody behind.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair.
And I guess just as it relates to the basketball category it seems to be -- clearly whether you do these lottery systems in sort of the gray market post those the elasticity on the basketball category has some room to push.
And again it just seems like they were highlighting that category as a room for opportunity.
I think because they have a much stronger position in basketball and therefore they have more permission from the customer as opposed to running which is obviously there are more players and somewhat can be a more competitive business.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then I guess just my follow-up would be on the women's business and the strategy between the concepts.
I realize you're still very much in test mode between SIX:02 and the parks format on Lady Foot Locker.
But what are the metrics? What are the sort of hurdles that you're looking at in assessing what the ultimate strategy is when you decide between the 2 concepts? Could you give us a sense of sort of timing maybe the capital investment that may need to occur if there's going to be more significant remodels just maybe more color there? Well there's a couple of different things going on Eric.
One is obviously looking at the performance and measuring the sales the profitability productivity and customer reaction.
Is the customer excited about it? And then get some learnings about what markets may work better than others.
So it's a performance and a market thing that we're looking at.
At the same time it does take time.
It took several years before Lululemon moved out of B.C.
I think some of our competitors in this are still being thoughtful as how they grow.
We do have the capability though to push ideas into our Lady Foot Locker chain.
And so part of our challenge is look at the new idea how fast and where do we grow that and take the existing idea and how can we strengthen that to make that more productive for the company.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can we just talk about the remodels from then here.
As you think about the remodeled stores that are off-line in the third quarter I'm guessing there's going to be significantly fewer closed in the fourth quarter so you have the fleet open for the holidays.
Is that a fair assumption? Yes.
And by the way the third quarter was also our highest remodel quarter of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I -- so then if I think about it excluding those stores that were closed it seems like the guidance for low and the mid-single digits implies a slowdown in the fourth quarter from the core stores excluding that.
Is there any reason for that? Or...
We do very thoughtful planning.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As we think -- so then as we think about the drag that you're seeing from having some of these stores off-line each quarter is the dynamic of a drag from the off-line stores versus the lift from the new stores coming back in at a higher run rate becoming less of a drag each quarter that goes by at this point? Yes.
As we remodel and have more of the remodeled stores to offset the closures in the forward quarters there should be less of a drag.
Which is one of the reasons why we don't call it out because over time it starts to -- one starts to overtake the other.
And rather than give us small adjustment every quarter 1 plus or minus because we also have different numbers in each quarter we just say we will have -- we'll have some ups and downs but they're not going to be huge.
It'll be -- might be big for a chain but not for the overall company.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then can I just ask about SG&amp;A for a second and the fourth quarter I guess with remodeling? It seems like there's a pretty significant uptick in 3Q.
Is that where you thought it would be Lauren in the quarter when you talked to us? Or was there any kind of shift there in the quarter? The uptick in SG&amp;A? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes so again I go back to I guess a couple of dynamics there.
We have a shift of $36 million of sales out of Q3 into Q2.
So there's some pressure on the leverage.
And then we had a full quarter of the Runners Point Group.
So if you get back to our base business we actually did lever that SG&amp;A by about 40 basis points in Q3.
So we were pleased with that result.
And then really it comes from a full court effort by our team that manage the costs right? So we're very closely making sure that our selling wage hours are productive and that we're controlling all the other controllables.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess if I could just give one quick comment considering -- since you mentioned Timberland and obviously the weather has been pretty bad the last 2 years.
With that in mind have you guys taken a bigger position in boots or a smaller position in boots this year as we look at the fourth quarter? We're optimistic about our boot opportunity in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Matt McClintock from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could actually focus on -- back on Europe for a second.
You called out Footlocker.com as being strong during the quarter.
I was wondering what are some of the drivers to that specific strength? Is that mobile? Or are there other drivers there? And then how does that compare now that you have Runners Point Group and Tredex? How does that compare to the strength or the growth in that business? Are the drivers the same? And then lastly when you think about the platforms themselves between those 2 businesses are they similar? Is one a little bit more -- have more technology et cetera? Just how should we compare those 2 platforms? Yes with regard to why they're growing we are making significant investments and they're both front and back.
We've updated the websites now for Footaction.
We're working on the other websites and improving there.
We just implemented the SIX:02 website.
And so we're making -- what the customer sees is a much better experience.
As part of that we're significantly stepping up our abilities with mobile.
So we're seeing a significant growth in mobile.
So we're pushing on the if you will the channel part of it too.
And the third thing is on the operations side we're making significant efforts and we're doing things like buy online reserve in-store buy in-store have it shipped to you.
Buy online come pay cash in-store.
We've put all sorts of different things to connect the Dot-Com with the stores.
We're testing things like computers and adds in stores and different things so that we can have a much more consistent experience.
With regard to Europe Europe was just very very small.
Tredex gives us a platform.
There are differences in terms of payment obviously the languages.
And those are things that we are developing and also Tredex can help us with.
Our next question comes from John Zolidis from Buckingham Research.
Question on the women's business.
I think Ken you mentioned that you are shifting to performance away from the fashion side.
So I'm just curious why you would want to do that.
Because that is a faster-growing more underserved element in the ladies-only business.
We still have the capability with our banners to serve that fashion customer.
And by the way she is more comfortable shopping in Foot Locker because she can -- in Foot Locker she can buy in the kids department because for example Nike doesn't make Jordan in women's anymore they make it in kids.
So she'll go over to the kids department and buy a pair of Jordans.
She also doesn't have any problem going over to men's if she has a larger foot and buy it in the men's department.
So she -- that fashion customer feels more comfortable shopping in a Foot Locker than necessarily the Lady Foot Locker.
We also change the target of the customers.
The customers moved up from 15 to 25 to 25 to 35 and she is more physically active cares more about how she looks and what she wears while she caring about how she looks.
And I think that that provides us an opportunity.
It's a very large market over $40 billion in the places where we participate and one that we know has not been fully and effectively served.
And that change in age demographic is speaking to our women's-only banner.
Yes women's only whereas in Foot Locker we still are able to take care of that younger customer who feels comfortable shopping in there whereas the more mature woman might not feel as comfortable shopping in a Foot Locker.
Okay.
So the performance declines at Lady Foot Locker are related to repositioning.
So that suggests something else is going on with the decline in comps at the other banners which have continued to be a source for a fashion customer as well.
Can you just talk about what needs to happen to improve that side? Yes one of the things that we've done based on the demographics and the core consumer in each of our banners we've removed women's from Footaction completely.
So when you look at the total numbers that went from a number to 0.
So we're still rationalizing through that and need to anniversary that before we see the overall women's business.
We're working in each of the banners to get the right assortment as Ken mentioned so that we can better appeal to that fashion consumer.
And I think it's -- as we've talked about our women's business is work in progress and we were making progress in the women's-only banner.
We continue to make progress in the other banners speaking to different consumers.
Okay.
When do we anniversary the Footaction change? Early next year.
Our final question comes from Taposh Bari from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ken I wanted to ask you just what you make of this reacceleration in the core Foot Locker business here through the third quarter and into November.
I mean it seems to me there's a broader pattern across all of athletic.
Your peers are putting up better numbers.
But as you look back at the past 6 months you guys had 2 or 1 point in the second quarter now 4.
It sounds like you're pretty optimistic for the end of the year.
So is there something that you changed strategically? Is it greater macro forces at play here? I think that -- I don't know about the greater macro forces.
I think one of the things that's happened is we've stepped up the product.
In the summer things lulled a little.
But we're seeing more product for more vendors come out.
We've got BOOST SpringBlade from Adi.
We've got some great new releases from Nike.
You've got things like Roshe from Nike.
You've got the Flyknits from Nike.
Apparel has stepped up.
We've made some of the adjustments in apparel that we've talked about as we look at the growth of fleece changing what the -- graphics on the T-shirts.
So I think you've got some product changes.
We have -- we're doing a better job with the stores.
We've got the remodels that are starting to feel some benefit from.
Our efforts in Dot-Com continue to help us.
So I think there are some industry things that are happening and some of the things that we're doing and they're just continuing to pick up speed.
Research Division</strong> Okay good to hear.
Just a quick follow-up.
If you could just elaborate on the key product trends that you're seeing within footwear.
If I heard correctly it sounds like basketball kind of humming along status quo at a pretty strong clip.
The running business it sounds like there's a little bit of a subtle change there.
I think Dick you mentioned the New Balance 574 style becoming more popular and the ASICS' and Mizuno's technical brands slowing.
I know that this business has a history of ebbing and flowing between technical and casual but just curious to see if this is a start of a bigger trend or what you make of it in its early days.
Yes I think that the lifestyle of running is certainly an important piece of the running category.
And I think you're right that it does ebb and flow.
And right now things like the Roshe Run things like the 574 the consumer is after those and very excited about them.
At the same time we look at things like the top-end shoes from Mizuno and Brooks and ASICS and we see some strength there sort of that middle tier that gets stretched one direction or the other and that's where we're seeing that shifts in running.
The other thing I think that's happening is you're seeing just the look is changing as there's more emphasis on -- you're seeing strengthening of some of the basic colors with pops versus some of the allover color.
And as that changes and the vendors react to it to the customer trend we'll -- you'll see things get back in line.
But overall we're pleased with the running.
And the good thing about running is that there are a number of people who are performing well.
Okay.
Thank you and thanks everybody for the call.
I hope everybody who is still on has a good Thanksgiving and appreciate your support and interest.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Foot Locker's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to the Foot Locker Incorporated's most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at <a href="http://www.prnewswire.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.prnewswire.com</u></a> or <a href="http://www.footlocker-inc.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.footlocker-inc.com</u></a>.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Foot Locker Inc.'s fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
We’re pleased to have announced this morning record financial performance for both the quarter and the year.
In the fourth quarter we earned net income of $121 million or $.81 per share an increase of 19% bringing our full year earnings to $429 million or $2.85 per share.
These full year earnings compared to the $2.58 per share generated in 2012.
On a non-GAAP basis we earned $0.82 per share in the fourth quarter a 28% increase over last year's 13-week non-GAAP earnings of $0.64 per share.
For the full year on a non-GAAP basis we achieved a 16% increase in earnings per share to $2.87 from $2.47 a year ago.
As we describe changes in quarterly or annual ratios and margins during this call we will be referring to non-GAAP results that also exclude the extra week in 2012.
Since in our view this approach provides the most useful basis of comparison.
In this morning's press release we have included a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation and in the 8-K filed this morning there's a detailed calculation of our non-GAAP performance measurements.
Here with me this morning to provide the details are Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Dick Johnson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Ken Hicks Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
We have a lot of ground to cover this morning so I'll hand it right over to you Lauren.
We sure do John.
Thank you and let me thank all of you who have joined us this morning to cover the details of a Foot Locker’s 2013 results and to hear about our current view of 2014.
Noted in our press release this morning the fourth quarter of 2013 was another strong performance by our company.
Our best fourth quarter as an athletic company.
We achieved a solid of 5.3% comparable sales gain and a 9.7% of total sales gain lifted by our comps and $70 million of sales by Runners Point Group.
The fourth quarter sales results brought our full year total sales to $6.5 billion another record for us and 6.6% increase over the last year's 52-week results of $6.1 billion.
Most of the broad trends we saw throughout the year continued in Q4.
For example our strongest segment was our direct-to-customer business which generated a 13% comparable sales increase.
Within that segment Eastbay was up low single-digits.
CCS was down high teens and our store banner.com sites were up again more than 40%.
In fact our store banner.com sales were up more than 40% for the year overall a second consecutive year at that level and a third consecutive year with at least a 30% increase.
Within the store segment we produced sales gains in every region in which we operate.
In the U.S.
our improvements were led again by our children's business with Kids Foot Locker itself up low double-digits in the quarter.
Foot Locker in the U.S.
also posted a strong result up high single-digits.
Footaction was up low singles while Champs Sports and Lady Foot Locker were down slightly.
Internationally our Foot Locker Asia-Pacific business had a terrific quarter generating a low double-digit sales gain while our businesses in Europe and Canada were up mid-single-digits.
Comparable sales were positive throughout the quarter.
With November up low single-digits December the month you really want to hit the ball as far as you can was up high single.
And January was up in the mid-single-digits.
By category of business footwear was the driver of our success in the quarter with a gain in the mid-single.
Average selling prices and unit sales were both up.
Basketball was definitely the strongest component of footwear with many divisions posting double-digit gains.
In the U.S.
running was down a bit which is not too much of a surprise given the challenging winter weather much of the country experienced during the quarter.
Internationally where the weather was relatively mild we had solid gains in both running and basketball.
Apparel and accessories sales were down mid-single-digits.
Average selling prices were up a tick but unit volume was down.
We continued to transition our assortment towards the more premium offering.
Dick will talk more about apparels in a few minutes.
Turning now to the rest of the income statement our gross margin ticked up 10 basis points in the quarter to 32.5%.
For the full year our gross margin rate was flat at its record high levels of 32.8%.
The familiar pattern of fixed cost leverage offset partially by a lower initial market break was evident in the fourth quarter.
Unlike most of the year however in Q4 we did increase markdowns slightly higher than last year in order to ensure that our inventory position remained fresh going into 2014.
We believe that strategy worked well as inventory at year end was up just 4.5% over last year compared to the 9.7% sales increase I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks.
Using constant currencies and excluding Runners Point our inventory was up just 1.3% and it was actually down slightly on a gross per square foot basis.
Footwear margins improved about 20 basis points while apparel margins fell in the quarter.
The story was much the same for the full year.
So in total apparel penetration fell back slightly to 23.1% in 2013.
And apparel margins still have yet to catch and surpass footwear margins.
We continue to believe doing so it's possible but it will clearly take time and a lot of hard work.
What we believe our margin and inventory business was strong it was our expense management that as CFO I was particularly proud of.
Our SG&amp;A rate improved 110 basis points 20.3% in the quarter and for the full year; we came in at a record low 20.4% down 60 basis points from 2012’s rate.
Topline growth coupled with diligent expense management is a powerful combination.
I’d like to thank our many team members responsible for that accomplishment for a job well done.
In Q4 our store wages the biggest component of SG&amp;A declined almost 20 basis points as a percent of sales due to both a very strong performance by our store operations teams and to various technology tools we have implemented over the last year or so in order to improve our hiring and labor scheduling processes.
We also reduced our marketing expenses compared to a year ago although we were still able to develop some very memorable marketing campaigns such as the All is Right campaign during the root Week of Greatness which produced more than 1 billion -- billion with a B impressions over the course of the quarter.
It was quite remarkable.
Our depreciation and amortization came in at $36 million for the quarter 2% sales and in line with our expectations.
Our tax rate came in below last year due primarily to the ongoing effect of certain recently implemented tax planning initiatives which received a particular Boost in the fourth quarter due to a favorable development in our foreign tax position.
In fact these initiatives should enable us to achieve a somewhat lower tax rate going forward which I’ll describe a little bit later when I provide our outlook for 2014.
The bottom-line was a very healthy non-GAAP net income result in the fourth quarter of $122 million an impressive increase of 26% over Q4 2012.
Our non-GAAP net income of $432 million for the full year was solid 14% increase over last year's record performance.
On an earnings per share basis we improved 28% in the quarter $0.64 to $0.82 with the additional increase coming from the reduction in our outstanding shares.
As noted in our press release we repurchased almost 1.6 million shares of our common stock in the fourth quarter at a cost of $63 million.
That's brought our full year repurchase program to 6.4 million shares at a cost of $229 million up appreciably from the $129 million we spent in 2012.
In addition to this significant return of cash to shareholders.
We also paid $118 million of dividends during 2013.
Last month we announced that our Board had authorized a 10% increase to our current quarterly dividend rate to $0.22.
This is the fourth consecutive year with a meaningful dividend increase.
Overall in 2013 we returned $348 million of cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks.
This amount represents more than 80% of our net income for the year.
We also finished 2013 having spent $206 million in capital to invest in a variety of stores digital technology and infrastructure projects.
I’ll let Dick cover the details of the program in a moment but suffice it to say that even with funding all these initiatives plus the acquisition of Runners Point we ended the year in strong financial position with $728 million of cash net of balance sheet debt.
We ended the year with 3 473 stores an increase of 138 from the beginning of the year.
Excluding Runners Point Group our store-based decreased by 55 stores.
That's the biggest decrease coming at Lady Foot Locker Foot Locker in the U.S.
and CCS where we closed all 22 of our CCS retail stores.
The primary increases were in a Kids Foot Locker and in Foot Locker Europe.
Let me now turn the call over to Dick to add more color to the strong results.
Before we get to your questions I’ll jump back into discuss our annual and quarterly expectations for 2014.
Dick? Thanks Lauren.
I want to start by expressing my gratitude to everyone on the team at Foot Locker for doing so much of to make this past year such a success.
There were so many important contributions all around the globe that there's just not enough time to do justice to any of them -- to all of them but rest assured your efforts are truly appreciated.
For the fourth quarter I’ll touch on some of the key product themes that drove the business.
I started off last quarter highlighting the strength of the Jordan brand and sure enough that brand continued it's very strong performance in all of our markets around the globe.
Jordan Retro Classic and Performance shoes also sold well as did Jordan Tees Fleece Shorts and Socks.
Lauren mentioned that basketball was the strongest category in Q4 and so in addition to Jordan; we drove very solid sales results in the signature products.
Innovative styles of LeBron Kobe and KD Footwear performed very well along with Foamposits and certain other marquee player shoes.
Running was down slightly in the U.S.
but within the category we saw continued strength in Performance Running.
For example the relatively new SpringBlade program from Adidas sold well as did the well-established Nike Free.
Among the lifestyle running silhouettes the Roshe Run from Nike has shown a lot of life both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
Lauren mentioned that Running was up in Europe and in addition to the Roshe several Air Max style sold well.
Boots were a popular footwear choice in the quarter especially Timberland and Nike.
This was primarily a style choice because Timberland boots along with accessories such as knit caps sold in warm weather markets in the U.S.
just as well as they did where it snowed.
Apparel sales were down a bit in the quarter.
Jordan apparel was certainly an exception as the hook-up graphic in logo tees and fleece in particular sold very well.
The apparel that hooked to the marquee player shoes also sold through at good rates.
It was primarily the more lifestyle-driven apparel that posted declines.
There was a lot of pretty intense promotional competition in the mall for that customer during the quarter.
While there was definitely a place for some of the less athletic apparel in our banners overall we will continue to focus on a more premium performance-based brand of assortment which we believe is what our customers expect us to deliver.
On the accessories front our Performance Sock business continues to expand as does the Backpack business which also tilts towards the premium end of the price spectrum with fashion hooks to the key issues and apparel in our stores.
Turning to our 2014 capital program we’re targeting a total of approximately $220 million.
We continue to generate strong sales lifts from most of the remodel formats we began rolling out in 2013.
We have many different types of projects with very different amounts of capital spent per project.
So the lift required to justify the expenditure is also very different.
This is one of the reasons we’ve not given a single number in terms of the sales lift from the remodels but we watch carefully the financial performance of each and every project relative to our hurdle rates and make adjustments to future projects accordingly.
In 2014 we expect to continue to remodel programs in Foot Locker and Champs Sports and expect to have touched at least 20% of the domestic Foot Locker and 30% of the Champs stores by the end of the year.
The basic reformatting of the Kids Foot Locker is already complete but we do have a Nike Fly Zone shop in KFL that we’re testing more of in 2014.
We opened two new Footaction prototype stores in 2013 and based on their initial success we plan to expand that test in 2014.
We’re also very excited about the potential for new Jordan Flight 23 shops in Footaction.
We have one prototype store now and we believe that this type of shop-in-shop will provide a real lift too many of the stores we have in the fleet.
We have allocated capital to both SIX:02 and Lady Foot Locker in 2014.
First for SIX:02 we’re continuing to build the brand and refine our model during the current test phase.
The stores are doing well but we need to continue reading our results making layout and assortment adjustments at least to the spring selling season before finalizing our rollout strategy.
We will keep learning in order to maximize the potential of the SIX:02 banner.
For Lady Foot Locker 2013 was a year of assortment transition shifting out of lifestyle businesses and into fitness and performance.
We’re rolling out our Bridgewater format in many of our existing Lady Foot Locker stores this year.
Based on successful tests our Bridgewater format is essentially a smaller scale version of the parks format.
You may recall that we have 19 parks format stores where we have adjusted the look of the store and the assortment to be performance-oriented like SIX:02 but still with the Lady Foot Locker name above the door.
Bridgewater is the new format which we’re using which can be applied to a variety of store layouts including some of the smaller Lady Foot Locker stores that can't accommodate full performance apparel assortments of the larger stores.
In Champs Sports and Foot Locker we have two different billion-dollar men's businesses in the U.S.
and ultimately we see no reason why we can't have $1 billion women's business also.
Finally let me touch on our European business.
Overall Europe produced a mid-single-digit comparable sales gain and improved profit contribution.
As you might expect some of these countries were stronger than others and one of the strongest countries was Germany where we also added significantly to our business in 2013 by acquiring the Runners Point Group.
Runners Point Group generated a small profit in Q4 and was slightly accretive for the period in 2013 that we owned the business.
We’re satisfied with that initial result and look forward to realizing the benefits from a number of merchandising market segmentation and operational improvements that we have started to make there.
With our heritage in running Runners Point's biggest selling season is in the spring and we haven't owned the business during that period yet.
We fully expect Runners Point Group to be profitable in 2014 and the accretion should grow over the time as we develop the business and implement strategies to improve our financial and operation performance.
I'll hand the ball off to Ken now to add his perspective on the business.
Thank you very much Dick.
Let me echo your thanks to the entire Foot Locker team that delivered these exceptionally strong results.
During the last few years the team has built strong momentum in our overall performance.
As a result a diligently executing the many initiatives that support our strategic priorities we have delivered a growing number of strengths and opportunities upon which we can continue to build as we strive to reach our long range goals.
We have substantially diversified many aspects of our business in recent years.
First we have a very strong men's business and now our children's business is quite robust too.
We also have a very solid strategy for the women's business to bring it up to the productivity level of the rest of the company.
We recognized that we could not accomplish that goal with the layout and size of the stores and the merchandise assortments in most of our existing Lady Foot Locker fleet.
So we are undergoing a major transformation of the women's business that Dick described.
Second our position in basketball is very strong and we have also strengthened our running and casual footwear offerings as well as our apparel assortments.
This has given us a better merchandise balance than before.
Third we have clearly dedifferentiated our banners enabling each of them to focus on a particular customer set whether it's on the performance end of this spectrum such as Foot Locker Eastbay Runners Point and SIX:02; or the lifestyle end such as Footaction Sidestep and CCS.
Meanwhile Champs Sports is able to effectively serve customers across a broad athletic spectrum.
Fourth we are no longer just a U.S.-focused company with a modest international presence.
We are now a large global company.
Including our franchise partners we operate well over a 1 000 stores in 29 countries outside the U.S.
and along with our international and local country digital sites we're approaching $2 billion in international sales.
And finally we're not just a bricks and mortar business.
We have a strong fast growing collection of digital sites both in the U.S.
and abroad.
And we've grown our digital sales to be more than 10% of our total sales.
All of these strengths have provided us with an exciting number of opportunities to drive our business forward in the coming years.
Fortunately some of these opportunities are having an impact now and we expect that they will continue to do so over the relatively near-term which I define is the next -- into the next year.
These include; first our children's business across not just kids Foot Locker where sales increased at a mid-teen pace in 2013 but across all of our banners channels and geographies.
Second growth in Europe where we have seen recovery in most of our markets and where Germany given the Runners Point acquisition is now our largest market.
In the near-term we'll focus on customer segmentation inside Germany and expansion of the Foot Locker banner in markets where we believe we are under-penetrated.
Third improvements in our running and apparel business both of these categories are strong but growth slowed in 2013.
Looking ahead we have a promising pipeline of premium running products from many vendors including Nike adidas ASICS Under Armour Mizuno New Balance and Puma.
Fourth continued expansion of specialized presentations in our stores in partnership with our vendors.
With Nike these include the House of Hoops Yardline Kids Fly Zone and Jordan Flight 23 shops.
With adidas we have the Adi collective and original shops.
And we've recently opened our first two Puma performance labs.
Fifth we will continue to enhance the connectivity between our store banners and our banner ecommerce sites.
We're stepping up our investment to make these sites more engaging entertaining and shopper-friendly.
Finally we use technology to improve our customer service inventory effectiveness and productivity of our sales associates.
In the intermediate term of say two to three years we have additional opportunities to build on our momentum.
Examples include the cumulative sales lift of our store remodel programs as we start to hit critical mass the potential expansion of the Runners Point and Sidestep banners outside their current markets investing in technology the most prominent example of which is the new merchandise allocation system we intend to roll out later this year.
And the development of a more meaningful team sales and services business.
And Dick spoke about what is perhaps our biggest single long-term opportunity the women's business.
Between the promising SIX:02 banner and the merchandise assortment changes we're making to Lady Foot Locker we believe we can create a large profitable women's business.
That's a lot of opportunities to seize upon and not all of them will develop exactly how and when we've envisioned.
But the breadth of promising growth and profit opportunities have just listed make for a very exciting future for Foot Locker not just this year but I believe for many years to come.
Now before we get to your questions let me hand the call back to Lauren to talk more about the specifics of how we're planning 2014 and all the news that you've been waiting to hear.
Lauren? Thanks Ken.
As we mentioned in the press release this morning we are planning for a mid-single-digit comparable sales gain and a double-digit percentage EPS increase during 2014.
Many of the themes from 2013 we expect to carry over into 2014 with one notable exception which is thankfully we don't have to worry about significant quarterly sales shift caused by that extra week in 2012.
So in fact we are planning for mid-single-digit comp sales gains in each quarter.
Until July remember we will have incremental sales from Runners Point Group at which point their sales and expenses will be in both periods.
RPG sales will be in our consolidated comp numbers starting in October.
On the gross margin front we expect to experience some ongoing initial market pressure but we believe we can continue to improve our markdown rates to hold merchandise margin relatively steady in 2014 and we should pick up leverage of our fixed cost to generate an overall gross margin gain of about 30 basis points to 50 basis points.
We should also lever the six elements of SG&amp;A to produce a 20 basis point to 30 basis points improvements in our SG&amp;A expense rate.
We are currently planning for depreciation and amortization expense to increase to a range of $145 million to $150 million this year.
Our interest expense we see being flat with last year at around $5 million.
Meanwhile as I alluded to you before our tax team has done a terrific job implementing various tax planning initiatives.
And going forward into 2014 we are now expecting a 36.5% effective tax rate down from our prior expectation of 37%.
We're planning for a $220 million capital expenditure program in 2014.
We're anticipating of 16 new stores and we'll likely close about 100.
We'll spend about the same amount this year on store remodels.
At about 300 the number of projects in 2014 will be close to the number that the team executed last year.
The balance of the capital program will be spent on our technology initiatives our digital sites our logistics and other facilities and our regular store maintenance requirements.
We have $371 million left on our share repurchase program which as you have seen we were active in executing during the period of 2013.
We expect this share count to continue decreasing as we execute this program.
We intend to be disciplined with our inventory growth in 2014 with the goal of ensuring that inventory increases had no more than half the rate of sales growth.
That inventory discipline has served us and the entire industry well in the recent years.
It also set us up for a solid start to 2014 and in fact our comparable sales are up low-double-digits so far in the first quarter through yesterday.
That said there's still a long long way to go on the quarter and the year so we're going to stay focused on executing our initiatives.
In the meeting earlier this week Ken said something about it being good to score a touchdown on the first possession of the game.
It's certainly better than snapping the ball into the end zone for a safety but it doesn't mean we're going to win the game if the team doesn't keep playing as fast.
So without better good news let's get to your questions now.
And John has just informed me that we have so many people in the queue to ask questions that we may not be able to get to everyone on this call.
If you will all keep to just one question each we'll get to as many of you as we can.
Operator? Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Congrats on a great quarter.
Thanks Michael.
Lauren one quick question.
Could you just clarify the merchandise margins versus the volume occupancy in the fourth quarter for us? I apologies if I missed that in comments.
Yeah.
We picked up in the fourth quarter 10 basis points improvement.
So we got some leverage out of the occupancy.
We gave it bit back in gross margins and that's about 10 improvement.
That's based on the 13-week to 13-week comparison.
Okay.
You're not breaking out both components so.
No.
Okay.
Can we just back up a minute and chat a little about Champs Sports.
I think the -- you've said there've been the comps of Champs were negative in the quarter I think they were as well in the third quarter.
I know that that's been a focus of the remodeling program in that.
I think the stores come out of the comp base as they remodel perhaps that's what it is.
But if you could just give us a little bit of the components behind what you're seeing at Champs and maybe their trajectory for that chain here this year.
Thank you.
Yeah.
The stores don't come out of the comp mix when we remodel and expand.
But one of the things we talked about was the apparel being down slightly in the quarter.
And you know that Champs is a great license product business and the teams that we have in the playoffs both professionally and in the college ranks were not the same level -- not at the same level of sales as the year prior.
So we combine that with a few late remodels and I think that explains.
We believe that by the end of '14 we'll touch 30% of the chain so we think that will be a critical mass there with the remodels on the Champs fleet.
Can I just ask you do you think -- do you expect the Champs business to be positive in 2014? Yes.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Thanks.
Thanks Michael.
Our next question comes from Roby Ohmes from Bank of America.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Hi Roby.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Hi.
Couple of questions.
The first one is just on the complement you're seeing now quarter-to-date could you talk about what may -- what is driving that? And then the sort of confidence in maintaining mid-single-digit comps through 2014.
Ken or Dick could you talk about the spring pipeline about key exclusives that you may have and then what sort of the apparel approach or assumption in maintaining those mid-single-digit comps.
And then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Yeah.
February obviously is an important basketball month.
So we feel good about where February end and obviously in where we are quarter-to-date.
We think the pipeline as Ken mentioned I think in his comments from the Running perspective we've got great Running silhouettes coming from many many vendors along with great basketball performance product.
And we have extended the basketball season certainly beyond the traditional season.
So we're fairly optimistic.
And on the apparel front obviously we continue to make changes to more performance-based assortment in many of our banners.
We see great opportunities with Under Armour apparels with Nike apparel.
So I think that we've got a pretty good confidence level albeit the mid-single-digit number is achievable.
Merrill Lynch</strong> And the other question I have was on Europe.
Could you remind us roughly where the operating margin of Europe has been and where do you think you could take it to over the next couple of years if you're successful with Runners Point and some of the initiatives you have going on over there.
The operating margins have improved both in the U.S.
and internationally.
And we think that we still have a plane opportunity in both.
It's a bit less promotional environment in Europe so that certainly helps.
But remember that we've been adding stores in Europe so you don't get the full flow-through that you do when you are just talking about comps.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Roby.
Our next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
Good morning everyone.
Great job on the quarter.
Thanks Chris.
Sure.
I guess one of my big questions is when you -- I know you're not going to update sort of your long-term targets but if you kind of back into some of the assumptions here you're getting pretty close to your 11% EBIT margin in 2014 just any thoughts about really where you think this business can go to and any thoughts about how we should we think about that as we move forward.
Obviously it seems like there's opportunity for that to go higher just some thoughts around that.
Yeah.
Chris we do believe based upon what I've talked about number of times the continued leverage that we get with productivity.
And I think one of the things that -- product stuff that we've done is to increase productivity of all of our assets our real estate our people and our inventory.
We think that as we continue to get things right in apparel and I continue to improve there and develop a stronger business there continue to improve in women's and develop that business.
We're seeing -- we're putting shoots on the new formats that we talked about plus the women's business in the other banners improving there and the new allocation system that we're putting in all will help us continue to drive the overall profitability.
And obviously it’s not -- it can't be infinite but we think we still have upside there.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just on the apparel.
I'm just curious any color between private label and the branded side.
And I guess as you think about 2014 do you think there's opportunity to actually comp positive in apparel as you think about the product pipeline what you're doing? Yeah.
We definitely believe that we can improve our apparel business.
We continue to -- on our private label -- hold down the commodity elements and build ideas.
We've got women's brand that's doing well called Acura.
We've got a brand in Europe called Sneaker Freak that's doing well.
So our Champs Sports gear has done well.
So we've got the ability to develop a better element in our private label.
The transition is a bit of a challenge as you pull something down and build something up.
You can pull down faster than you can build up.
We also believe that continued development of the premium apparel and how we show that and what we show is becoming more important.
So our plans for this year are positive apparel.
Okay.
Sounds great.
All the best to you guys in '14.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
My question is on Runners Point.
You mentioned that it came in at a slight profit during the quarter.
Do you have an alternate goal for the profitability of that banner? I couldn't run the process that we do in most of our European business.
And if there any -- I know you've been very happy with their ecommerce platform is there any chance that it could be more profitable because of that? That's one of the reasons why we -- Kate why we think it could be more profitable.
They've got the strong Tredex business.
But they're a slightly different model.
They have a smaller store.
They replenish more frequently.
And we actually think there's some things that we can learn because we have smaller stores in Europe than we do in the states from them on some of those supply chain elements as well as they can learn from us on things like the allocation and distribution of products.
So we believe that there is an opportunity for continued profitability improvement.
And as Lauren said there's not a governor on it that would say it couldn't get to the level of the rest of the company.
They were a profitable company when we bought them.
But as we work and continue to leverage both the corporate office that we have there plus the real estate inventory and people we feel very good about Runners Point.
Thank you.
Thanks Kate.
Our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
More questions about the store remodels.
Can you give us on like clearly you got some significant lift over on kids can you talk to me about with Champs may be the differential between the overall underperformance and those particular stores that have been done in the quarter or last year because you did -- you were little negative there.
Were the other -- were the redoes up? Yeah.
The remodels are up.
We don't really break the chain apart and see how many in details but you know as I said in my comments we monitor all the performance of all the remodeled stores and they are meet -- they meet our hurdles.
We make adjustments along the way.
So I think getting to critical mass with the Champs stores having 30% of them remodeled by the end of the year will all quite positive in the Champs business.
We wouldn't be going forward with them Sam if we -- if they weren't performing well and performing better.
And obviously one of the things that it does it allows us to better show the apparel which is a stronger business with them with the shoes and so we've gotten good reaction from the customers on the new format.
Thank you.
And then just real quick and a follow-up… The one other thing to keep in mind the kid's and about remodels the kid's stores will probably the easiest and most straightforward.
And almost all of our kid's stores have been reconfigured.
They're not really a remodel but reconfigured.
So one of the things that has helped the kid's business is that we've had that reconfiguring in all the chain.
And the others are -- it's more of a process than it was in kid's.
Thank you.
And then just real quick on Runners Point Group.
Can you talk about what kind of I mean what kind of accretion that you're thinking -- that you think you'll get this year from it? And how you think what kind of accretion you're going to get from that? And what kind of sales growth you're going to get from it as well? As you know we don't breakout divisions individually but we do feel great about what Runners Point will contribute this year.
As Dick mentioned spring is what they're running that is very important to them.
Thank you guys very much and good luck.
Okay.
Thanks Sam.
Our next question comes from Matthew Boss from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Congrats on a nice quarter and especially quarter-to-date in this environment.
Can you talk about…? Thanks.
No problem.
Can you talk about the business intelligence system the localization initiative and kind of how this -- when this is rolling out and the opportunity here over a multi-year period? Yeah.
We've got BI in place right now.
And I think that our merchants are doing a great job of understanding the market basket what's been sold together how the transactions are being put together in the stores.
So that's something that from the localization point of view we're already doing and working on.
I think Ken and Lauren and I have all mentioned the merchandise allocation system which is a much more detailed much more in-depth process and initiative that we'll test this year and we'll be in a position to roll out completely in 2015 so.
The advantage that that gives us quite frankly is it will allow us better utilize the BI information that we have.
Right now we're getting BI information and we're inputting in our current systems but we feel the new allocation system will allow us to better utilize the localized information in terms of product sizes quantities things like that.
It will really help us take assortment planning to the next level.
Of course because that's our planning impact that bears fruit go forward.
Great.
And then can you… We're excited about BI that -- really that information has let us beyond products so we're starting to see how it might be used to help us with operations and some other things.
Great.
And then can you just touch on what the basis for the acceleration quarter-to-date? And do you think there's some pent-up demand on the Running side given the weather that we have had as we head into the spring here? Well we certainly -- basketball is a big deal in February with the All-Star game and all of the events and the launches that happened in February.
So that's certainly been one of the things that driven the quarter.
And our general belief in the U.S.
is yes there's probably some pent-up demand on the running side.
But given number -- as Ken mentioned we're a stronger global business at this point and the winter has not been as difficult in many of markets in Europe so running business was actually up in Europe for the quarter.
So in U.S.
so yeah we see some pent-up demand.
We believe that there will be someone winter break -- inevitably break.
We see some good things.
Congrats.
Best of luck.
Okay.
Thanks Matthew.
Our next question comes from Matthew McClintock from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning and congrats to the entire Foot Locker team for a great quarter.
Thank you Matt.
Just I was actually -- wondering if you could update us on your thoughts about expansion.
That expansion this year looks like another year of net store closures.
And as you think about the comments earlier on may be taking Runners Point Group outside of its core markets how do we think about that longer term just in general.
Thanks.
One of the things and it's little deceptive in terms of expansion.
Because when you look at expansion as we are closing some of our less productive stores one of the things that we're doing is we're adding too.
We've got now well over 100 House of Hoops that makes our -- make our stores bigger things like adding the collective or the Puma labs or the Kid's Fly Zone.
Those are where we are taking more square footage but cutting down on a number of locations and helping our overall productivity both in terms of space.
So I think several years ago I was thinking okay you got to grow stores.
We have a couple of things going on both in terms -- or first in terms of just the overall productivity that we're able to drive out of one location.
The second is the addition which causes larger stores with regard to the new concepts that we're putting in the stores.
And the third is the growth of dotcom and the ability for that to help -- to make us more productive not only online but in our stores.
So I think what we're going to see is kind of a holding pattern around a level of stores but a much more productive.
We finished the year $460 a foot to four years ago we were doing $320 a foot.
So that's over in three four years a third improvement in the productivity.
With regard to Runners Point we want to get to know that business a little bit better but we believe that based upon the success that we've had with them based upon some testing we're doing by focusing their formats we have the ability to expand the Runners Points stores and the Sidestep stores into other markets.
And the interesting thing about that is there's some markets Italy for example that probably would be more receptive of Sidestep and there are other markets such as Scandinavia or Holland that would be more receptive of Runners Point.
Don't see that many Italians out running a lot but they do want to look good.
And so we think that -- and that's why we put it in that the mid timeframe as an opportunity that we can start expanding those chains into other markets than just greater Germany.
I appreciate the color Ken.
Okay.
Thanks Matt.
Our next question comes from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
I'll add my congrats on great execution.
Thanks Eric.
If I could just on the digital business Ken I mean now greater than 10% of the mix may be just kind of update us again on strategy? Is there optimal sort of size of that business that you're thinking about? Earlier we saw somewhat of an inflection this holiday season in retail in general in terms of sort of migration to online.
Really just sort of an update there from a banner perspective and the opportunity that you have going forward.
Yeah our -- first of all I think this last holiday was a little deceptive because three weekends in a row before Christmas we have a big chunk of the country cut off from shopping has an impact plus the industry didn't help itself with the mis-deliveries.
That said it's going to continue to grow and we're prepared for it.
And we're doing a number of things.
One we're updating our sites and what's on our sites and how they work.
We've really -- I think when you look at some of the new sites you look at the new SIX:02 sites look at our new Footaction sites they are different and they behave differently than each other.
We show more hook-ups and outfits on the Footaction site.
You can go to SIX:02 and do intelligent search.
So we continue to update and upgrade that.
We're looking at how we can bring more of that to the store and connect it to the store.
We've added buy online ship to store buy online purchase pick up in store.
You can order in the store something that they don't have in their inventory and have it shipped to you.
So we've got a whole bunch of things that we're doing to connect the stores and the Internet.
We are looking at things that we can do to connect even more and we're going to test something -- we're not ready to announce it yet -- but we're looking at a new idea that we'll test sometime hopefully this summer but there is a significant opportunity to continue to grow and develop the dotcom business; and not necessarily at the expense of the store if we put them together.
Because the most used sites on our websites happen to be store-connected store locator inventory things like that.
And we're going to make sure that we are able to give our associates something so they are better connected.
We are using handheld devices and all-in-one devices in the store.
So we're using technology as an opportunity.
It will grow.
What the peak is as I told everybody you set a goal of 10%.
Now the 10% by the way is the banner.com and we're not there yet.
We did have a banner pass the 10% but we've got to get all the banners up over it.
And as we do hear and I was alluded to earlier when we get that goal we'll set a new one.
And we'll move beyond.
I think there is some limit.
What that limit is is it 20% is it 30% is it 40% I don't know yet but… The customer will tell us.
But customer will tell us because we're going to be able to grow both ways.
What we want to do is give the customer the product the way they want it.
That's perfect.
Thank you.
And then just real quick for Lauren.
As we think about the gross margin next year leverage on occupancy that may be a little bit maintained on that [IMU].
As we think about that relative to opportunities to mix of price.
And I know there's a certain segments of the business that are perhaps dragging on that but we also know -- Nike in particular is just starting to catch and push him pricing particularly within basketball.
So is there an opportunity there as you think about the pipeline for the year and is some opportunity for upside on that I am you if in fact you take some pricing? Yeah I think we continue to work with the merchants and try to figure out where the price sensitivity is.
There's a lot of categories where there may be a little bit of upside but we continue to face some pressures and I think I don't see it being significantly different in 2014 than it was in 2013.
Okay great.
I appreciate it guys.
Best of luck.
But that's really why are we staying very focused on what are our other opportunities to improve that merchandise margin and there are other things that we can do.
We work internally and very collaboratively with our vendors in figuring out how to flow the product better and the allocation system is owing to help us make sure that we've got a right place right time.
All of those things come together to help us do more business at full price and that gives us some room there on that margin.
Yeah we believe and we work closely with our vendors to make sure that we get the best [IMU] and margin possible but our focus is not -- we're not like the United Nations.
Our focus isn't based upon negotiating with other people.
Our focus is on what we can do.
We will negotiate with the vendors to try to get as much as we can and they work with us because we want us to be strong too.
But at the same time we’re going to focus on what we can do and so that's why the things you hear us talk about and the number you hear us talk about our what we believe we can do.
That's really helpful.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
Thanks Eric.
Our next question comes from Seth Sigman from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks.
If I can just follow-up on the remodel work that you guys have done.
It sounds like you’re pleased with the improvement in sales that you’re seeing in some of your stores.
Just trying to dig in a little bit further where that improvement is actually coming from.
Do have a sense of -- are you getting better traffic in those locations maybe some incremental customers? Or are you seeing better conversion more attachments with the apparel assortment? Just trying to get a better picture of what's going on there.
All of the above.
I mean I think when we remodel store; it adds some excitement to the mall.
So we see traffic come up.
I think the ability to hook up and show through adjacent product the footwear and apparel hooks or accessory hooks has improved in all of the formats that we’re rolling out.
And I think that that ability to hook up changes our conversion in those stores.
So I think that all of those levers work and I think the reasons that we've gone through the remodels are to do just that to increase the flow of traffic to make the floor more productive to allow us to convert and hook up with a big investment going out the doors.
One of the things that happens in the retailers is sometimes -- you say well I want to change the format and do something.
And normally in my life when the retailer does that it's nice but you don't see the impact.
I give Dick and his team a lot of credit because we’re seeing the impact from these remodels and as we said we got criteria they are meeting and exceeding the criteria so it's a good thing.
Okay got it.
And it sounds like apparel is a big piece there.
Is there any way to quantify the apparel penetration in those stores versus the non-remodel stores or the company average something along those lines? Yeah there is.
But we don't disclose it.
Okay.
We monitor it very closely.
Okay got it.
But if you look at the stores one of the things that stands out more is that we got a better balance between apparel and footwear.
Sure.
One other driver that you mentioned was the development of a more meaningful team sales and service business.
Yes.
Haven't really talked about that much recently.
I mean where is that business today? What's the opportunity there? We -- it's a $2 billion business.
All the players are pretty small.
We had significant growth with the business this past year.
We see the opportunity.
We're in 11 states and we're going to continue to build those 11.
We're going to continue to slowly add more.
We're going to figure out how we can better hook the Eastbay and team sales so I feel very good about it.
This business should be well over $100 million business and that's what we're working towards.
We're professionalizing something that is kind of not very professional out there but it's a big business.
All right.
Thanks for the color.
Okay.
Thanks Seth.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hi Paul.
I wanted to just go back to the conversation around the women's business.
$1 billion is a big number.
If you can just drill down a little bit more on what we should expect from the SIX:02 format as you continue to test that this year.
What we think about how to drive growth in Lady Foot Locker long-term and is there any other avenues to reach that target outside of just these two formats? Well we have three elements in our women's business.
First is the Lady Foot Locker which is our biggest direct women's business and the thing that we know is apparel is a more important part and we’re through the new Bridgewater format which is basically a less expensive version of parks.
We are able to get a nice pickup with the apparel by putting more apparel and what the assortment is and we feel very good about where we are with that and we will roll that out -- we’re starting to roll that out this year and we will have a number of stores that we'll be putting in place.
Second part of it is SIX:02.
We’re pleased with where we are in SIX:02 but we know we still -- there's still some tweaks and improvements.
So we’re modifying the stores we have.
We've got a few more stores we're going to be opening up this year and we would hope by the end of this year we'll have a pretty good feel and that's something that we can move on and rollout.
And then the third element are the women's shoes and all of our other banners.
And that is a sizable business.
And we are better defined what Foot Locker women's is.
What Champs Sports women's is.
And as we do that between our female banners which are very performance-driven Foot Locker which will be more fashion Champs which will be a mix of fashion and performance we'll have a very strong business.
And it's a $40 billion plus business at our level; I’m not including the discount level $40 billion plus business.
There's not a player that really has the heart and mind of that women.
We’re going to work to do that and we've got a team I think that's dedicated to that and we’re pushing on it pretty hard.
We've got women's opportunities around the globe as well.
We’ve got a lot of women's shoes in Europe Canada Australia New Zealand and when you think about Runners Point half of the people are runner women.
So again great assortment opportunities around the globe as well as in the U.S.
Good call.
And just a quick follow-up since you mentioned those other countries Dick there's been no conversation about further international expansion.
Obviously I understand you have RPG still hasn't even been a year yet and you can roll out that format into other countries.
But is there any thought process about further global expansion particularly some of the bigger emerging market countries out there like Brazil and China? Thanks.
We constantly look and evaluate and determine where we think -- if we could develop a meaningful and profitable business.
I think that talking to people in our business they said the last year -- who would have thought our two most developing countries are North America and Western Europe? Some of the developing countries are having some significant challenges now.
And we will evaluate and look and see when the right time is.
But right now we've got tremendous opportunities where we are.
And we insist on meeting our hurdle rates no matter where they are in the globe.
So we have to be confident that we’ll do that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Our next question comes from Taposh Bari from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Great year.
Thanks Taposh.
I wanted to just kind of dig more into this disparity between running and basketball.
I get that the weather is obviously unfavorable for running but I guess -- what percentage of your customers actually using this product for end use.
And I guess the reason why I'm asking is there's obviously a very easy excuse for the running business but is it really all weather? Is there an ASP thing going on there? Is fashion playing a role? No I mean let's face it.
The majority of our shoes are not used for performance.
But we had -- there's been tremendous development between Kobe's KD’s LeBron’s Jordan that have really helped basketball.
We’re seeing this spring a plethora of running -- that will help running.
So there's new product.
You've got the new Boost.
You’ve got new Flies coming out.
You've got the new shoes from Under Armour.
There's a lot of new product coming that I feel will help running.
So yes the weather did have an impact but it was the newness.
There's some fashion.
In fact you look at some of the basketball shoes; they have a tendency to look like more like running shoes.
But I think that the new idea is yeah I’m looking at some shoes here.
Some KD’s that John’s wearing they look like running shoes.
But what I think is that this will balance out and we sell through all of our channels we sell as many running shoes as anybody else out there.
In fact we got a stronger position with some great brands and we will continue to be a leader there.
And what about this idea -- I know that women's wear daily article a couple weeks ago about white shoes making a comeback.
I think Dick you are actually quoted in that article.
Is that a big deal or is that small and what does it actually mean for your business? Well quick casual -- white-on-white black-on-black shoes are -- there always a base business.
They ebb and flow and when you look at things like Air Force One K-Swiss shoes they have their moments.
And right now it feels like we're running into one of those moments.
So as Ken talks about the legs on our stool one of those legs is casual footwear and certainly the clean white plays into the casual footwear line.
Okay great.
All the best.
Okay.
Thanks Taposh.
We have time for one more question.
Absolutely.
Our final question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you very much and my congratulations as well.
Thanks Bernie.
Ken with regard to the banners and digital could you go over a little bit of the experience in developing those banners digitally because that was a little bit late in coming relative to the digital cycle.
How far along are you -- you said you've made it major differentiations among banners.
What can we expect over the next few years? Well first of all we really didn't get into the digital business -- push the digital banners until a couple of years ago.
We were focused on Eastbay and [Dow] and his team I think are doing a much better job balancing that still pushing Eastbay but also developing the digital banners and when you look at footlocker.com champssports.com and connecting them with the stores.
So we now are much more coordinated in what we do with the stores and dotcom.
It used to be if they had the same shoe up go buy a lottery ticket that day because that was pure luck.
Now they are talking constantly.
I've talked about the connection with by online chip to store buy online purchase in the store the inventory lookup that using our stock locator.
So the connection and giving -- I was just down at our team weeks for both Foot Locker and Champs and the field leadership there -- and they were talking about -- do you know how many shoes you have in your inventory in your store? And they would say -- I have got X.
You have got 250 000 SKUs.
And they go wow -- because you have got that stock locator and we’re seeing much more of that.
We’ve updated a couple of the sites.
We have more to update.
We will continue to improve and adapt.
We will continue to put more technology the store.
So I would say we’re still in the early innings.
I feel that we're as far along as anybody else is.
We probably don't toot our horn as much as other people but we’re as strong as I think anybody is out there in the capabilities that is meaningful and important to the customer.
Thank you very much.
And just a wonderful job.
Congratulations on what you have accomplished.
Thanks Bernie.
And thanks everybody for the call.
Yes.
Thank you for participating on the call today.
We look forward to giving you an update on our next call which is tentatively scheduled for May 3rd.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Foot Locker's First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the internet at <a href="http://www.prnewswire.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.prnewswire.com</u></a> or <a href="http://www.footlocker-inc.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.footlocker-inc.com</u></a>.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I'd like to welcome all of you to Foot Locker Inc.'s first quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we reported first quarter net income of $162 million an increase of 17% compared to last year's net income of $138 million.
On a GAAP basis this year's net income represents $1.10 per share a 22% increase over the $0.90 per share we earned in the first quarter of 2013.
This quarter was the most profitable first quarter ever in the long history of our company.
Q1 was also the most profitable of any quarter not just a first quarter in our history as an athletic company.
Included in these results are approximately $2 million of charges related to a trade name impairment in Ireland and additional Runners Point Group integration costs.
Excluding these items on a non-GAAP basis Foot Locker's first quarter earnings were $1.11 per share compared to the $0.91 recorded in the first quarter of 2013 after excluding certain RPG acquisition costs.
Except as noted otherwise the figures and rates mentioned during our remarks will be based on these non-GAAP results.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is included in this morning's press release.
Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will kick off our prepared remarks this morning with a detailed review of our first quarter financial results.
She will then hand the ball to Dick Johnson our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to provide additional product and operational insight into our results.
And finally Ken Hicks our Chairman and CEO will team with Dick to review the progress we are making on seizing the many near and long-term opportunities the company is executing against.
And we will conclude with an opportunity for you to ask questions.
Lauren? Thank you and good morning to you all.
2014 has started off quite well as indicated by the very strong earnings John just outlined and the 7.6% comparable sales gain we reported today.
In fact including Runners Point Group our total sales increased 14% in the first quarter.
Breaking out our comparable sales gains by segment our stores were up 6.4% while our direct to customer segment was up 17.2%.
We noted on our previous call that February's comp gain was in the low double-digits.
March comp sales were up in the low single-digits despite the negative impact of the shift of Easter into April this year while April's gain was in the low double-digits.
Among our domestic store divisions Kids Foot Locker was once again the sales leader in the quarter with a stellar mid-teen comp gain.
Foot Locker division in the U.S.
also had an excellent result posting a high single-digit comp sales gain.
Footaction and Champs Sports posted a mid-single and low single-digit gain respectively.
Lady Foot Locker came in with a low single-digit comp loss which represents a significant sequential improvement over last year which Dick will discuss further during his remarks.
Foot Locker Europe generated a solid mid-single-digit comp gain.
With only one country Italy not posting an overall sales gain in the quarter.
In fact several countries were up double-digits including our Foot Locker business in Germany.
On top of that Runners Point Group delivered a comp gain in the double-digits although I need to remind you that RPG sales will not be included in our reported comp base until October of this year.
Foot Locker Asia-Pacific continued its strong run producing a high single-digit comp gain.
Foot Locker Canada posted a mid-single-digit decline.
Our 17.2% comp gain in our direct-to-customer segment was driven by our store banner.com business in which we achieved yet another gain in excess of 40%.
Eastbay still the biggest part of direct to customer was up low single digits while CCS the smallest piece was down mid-single-digits.
Our direct-to-customer sales were 11.3% of total sales up almost 100 basis points from a year ago.
These strong sales results yielded an equally strong result in gross margin which improved to 34.6% of sales from 34.2% a year ago.
Consistent with the guidance on our call in March the increase was primarily related to leveraging the fixed elements of our gross margin producing a gain of 70 basis points.
Merchandise margin was down 30 basis points due primarily to initial markup decline.
Our SG&amp;A rate also improved to 19% of sales from 19.2%.
As good as this result is in fact 19% is our best ever quarterly SG&amp;A rate as an athletic company.
It was negatively impacted by a couple of things.
First excluding Runners Point Group our SG&amp;A rate would have been 18.6%.
We bought a profitable business with a full management team and infrastructure and for the most part we intend to keep that structure in place leveraging it for growth.
That said there are definitely operating synergies we're beginning to realize and which will continue to benefit us going forward.
The second factor impacting our SG&amp;A rate this quarter was a $2 million increase in our legal reserves.
As expected depreciation expense increased to $36 million reflecting a higher level of capital investments we've been making in the last couple of years.
The rest of the income statement primarily interest and income taxes came in very close to our expectations going into the quarter.
We also delivered balance sheet results in line with our targets.
First inventory increased 8.5% overall compared to our 14% total sales increase.
Excluding RPG and using constant currencies inventory was up just over 3% compared to our comparable sales gain of 7.6%.
We also ended the quarter with just over $1 billion of cash and short-term investments a decrease of about $100 million from the end of Q1 last year.
We continued to execute our share repurchase program acquiring approximately 1.5 million shares for $70 million and we also paid an increased dividend of $0.22 per share representing an additional $32 million.
Together the share repurchases and dividends amounted to over $100 million of cash returned to our shareholders.
We also invested approximately $500 million of capital into our business-- $50 million.
Thank you for that correction John $50 million of capital into our business to drive future growth.
During the first quarter we opened 27 stores and closed 36.
As outlined in March the largest number of openings was in Europe and in Kids Foot Locker while half of the closures were in Lady Foot Locker.
We ended the quarter with 3 464 company-owned stores.
I would characterize the quarter as one in which we executed efficiently both operationally and financially and delivered everything we said we would along with some solid upside on the topline which flowed nicely to the bottom-line to produce the best quarter in our history.
It was an excellent performance by everyone on the Foot Locker team and certainly results of which we're all very proud.
Based on these results and what we can see over the rest of the year we are reiterating the strong outlook we gave you at the beginning of the year.
Quarterly mid-single-digit comparable sales gain 30 basis points to 50 basis points of leverage gains and gross margins 20 basis points to 30 basis points in improvement in SG&amp;A depreciation and amortization between $145 million and $150 million for the year an effective tax rate of approximately 36.5% and double-digit percentage EPS gains.
Our results for the first couple of weeks in May are consistent with this outlook with comparable sales through yesterday up mid-single-digits.
Let me now turn the call over to Dick to review the merchandising strategies that led to these strong results.
Thanks Lauren and good morning.
I appreciate everyone taking the time to be with us this morning.
Let's start with the families of business.
Footwear was the leader in the first quarter with a gain in the low double digits.
Apparel was down mid-single-digits and our accessories business was up low single-digits.
Starting with footwear where we had a lot of our strengths our biggest category was also our strongest with basketball up solidly in the teens.
The gains were led by Jordan and Nike Marquis player shoes.
As was the case throughout most of last year Jordan was strong across the Board.
Jordan brand shoes like the True Flight all of the retro releases and the Player Edition shoes including Melo and CP performed well in the quarter.
The three key players in Nike Marquis basketball Lebron KD and Kobe also performed consistently well in our stores and online.
Basketball footwear sales were up in all of our geographies.
Outside of North America however the running business is actually our largest category and our international running business was up well into the double-digits.
Our gains in running in Europe were led by Max Air by Nike especially the Max 90 and Max One style; Adidas also stepped up with the strong program the ZX Flux that contributed significantly to our success in the category in Europe.
Across our total company running was up high single-digits with the international gains partially offset by a low single-digit decline in the U.S.
Overall Nike lightweight running was strong with the Free continuing to provide meaningful growth as was the Fingertrap Max where we had a good assortment of exclusive products.
Some of the other technical brands trended off although Under Armour Speedform Apollo shoe got off to a good start albeit with limited pairs thus far.
Also on the positive side we're taking a strong position of Puma as they begin to draw inspiration for their new innovative products from their performance sports heritage.
We've introduced Puma Lab bays in about 100 of our U.S.
Foot Locker stores and so far they are performing well.
Within our casual business styles such as the Huarache Roshe and Thea all from Nike also performed well.
Vans did well especially in the classic silhouettes.
We also had good business in core White/White Air Force Ones.
And while Converse was down for us in total the basic white and black Chuck Taylors continue to sell well.
Turning to our apparel business I mentioned we were down mid-single-digits in total.
The competitive environment in the malls and online remains challenging and yet we did hold nearly flat from the U.S.
The premium tees tanks fleece and shorts that hook to our footwear did well especially in Jordan and Nike signature basketball.
Our remodeled stores showcase this apparel particularly well and apparel sales were up in these stores.
Our biggest challenge in apparel was in Europe where the business declined double-digits.
We had some successes such as in Jordan and NBA license tees and shorts but not enough to offset a decline in the Adidas originals product.
Nonetheless we're optimistic about the Adidas business for the back half of the year as we see a more innovative pipeline of product arriving during that period.
Finally the weather was quite a bit warmer in most of Europe this quarter compared to last year.
While that probably helped our running business it hurt our fleece business which was particularly strong a year ago.
Our sock business continues to drive the accessories category.
Although the growth is not as strong as it has been.
In performance styles growth is coming mostly from fashion socks with sublimated prints and other fun styles from vendors such as Stamps.
We also continue to be a key destination for multi-pack basic socks from our major vendors as well as our own private label socks.
Head wear was strong especially knit hats including the licensed hats with fresh team logos and prints.
These knot hats sold well not just in cold weather markets and like Timberland boots knit hats were a popular style choice around the country north and south throughout the quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Ken let me touch briefly on some of our operational metrics.
First our traffic was up in the quarter as were units sold.
Our marketing teams did a terrific job bringing customers to our stores and our operation teams were at the top of their game making sure those customers were happy and left with a bag full of merchandise.
We also posted an increase in average unit retail which was a combination of customer preference for premium product and the lower mark down rate that Lauren mentioned.
Let me now hand it off to Ken to review where we are in the execution of the initiatives addressing our many opportunities.
Thanks Dick.
Good morning to you all.
Let me start off by echoing Lauren's remarks that this quarter's results are something everyone at Foot Locker should be very proud of.
We produced our 17th consecutive quarter of comparable sales gains and profit increases.
We achieved our third consecutive first quarter of all-time record profits and John tells me he went back and reviewed every annual report for the last 100 years to be sure we've never earned more than $162 million of net income in a first quarter and we're strong in almost every region and division.
It took every person in the company performing their job well displaying energy and passion and the pursuit of our goals and adhering to our core values in order to produce the results we did this quarter.
I want to thank all of them for their hard work that went into this performance.
I'll now highlight some of the initiatives that are generating our current success and which we believe can lead to even better results in the future.
You've heard about many of these opportunities before but I believe they're worth reiterating.
First our children's business is growing rapidly.
Lauren mentioned the mid-teen comparable sales gain at Kids Foot Locker.
Including the children's sales and other banners the overall gain in children's was in the very high teens as we invest successfully in the kids business in most of our other banners as well.
That said we have further opportunities both domestically and overseas to capture more sales of merchandise for children.
We'll be opening new Kids Foot Locker stores in certain markets and dedicating more space to the children's business and many of our other banners.
Second sales are growing in Europe.
Not only is our base Foot Locker business improving in most countries we're increasing our store count in markets where we're relatively under penetrated.
For example we opened six stores in France in the first quarter.
We also had high expectations for the Runners Point Group and so far we've not been disappointed.
They've gotten off to a terrific start this year.
We're still in the process of more clearly differentiating the assortments in our unique banners that effort has been going very well as you can see from a strong double-digit comp gain Lauren mentioned.
And finally in terms of Europe our digital business is growing rapidly.
This applies to both our legacy Foot Locker business throughout much of Europe as well as to RPG solid online positioning in Germany.
Our base is still small compared to the U.S.
so we're working hard to build our capabilities and ultimately make digital in Europe another one of our real strengths.
Our third near-term opportunity is elevating our running in apparel businesses.
It touched down our current results let me just add we're very optimistic that we're taking the right steps to build the best assortment of Running footwear for our customers with exciting new products from Nike Adidas Under Armour New Balance ASICS Brooks and Puma either in our stores now or coming this summer.
While our strength in basketball was undeniable we intend to ensure that we have multiple solid legs on our stool including running and casual foot wear as well as apparel.
Well our apparel penetration continued to edge back in the first quarter.
We're confident in our ability to build that business overtime up to the 30% level that was in the past.
We're seeing positive results from the actions we're taking to focus on premium apparel often exclusive to us that complements our exciting footwear offerings.
We still have many stores to remodel which will allow us to showcase and sell even more apparel in the future.
However it's an ongoing process to build the right mix of performance in basic apparel now given that the majority of our stores at this point are not yet remodeled.
Fourth we're in various stages of rolling-out prototyping and casting our various shopping - shop concepts in a partnership with our vendors.
The concept furthest along in rollout is of course our House of Hoops shops of which we operated 139 at the end of the quarter.
We plan to take it to 200 shops very soon and once we get there we'll see how much further we can go with this very productive concept.
We're also testing the Nike Yardlines in Champs Sports in several locations.
A handful of Adi collective shops in Footaction a prototype Jordan Flight 23 shop also in Footaction.
The Fly Zone in Kids Foot Locker and we have two Puma performance labs in Footlocker.
Some of these tests are too early to call but we'll make adjustments in order to maximize the profit potential and we're optimistic about all of them at this point.
Fifth and finally in terms of near-term opportunities we continue to integrate our brick-and-motor operations with our e-commerce capabilities.
We announced our most recent innovation just this week the Eastbay performance zone at Champs Sports.
This is a very exciting opportunity for us and for our customers because we are bringing the full power of the Eastbay brand into the mall for the first time.
The Eastbay performance zone is a 150 square foot area inside select Champs Sports with a premium league product for what Eastbay is known will be featured.
There will be an extensive array of this product available to sample and buy in the stores and a four foot touch screen will highlight size and color extensions of the even more of Eastbay's best products.
The in-store merchandize will be seasonally relevant rotating through a variety of sports and activities.
And the customer will have access to the entire inventory of literally hundreds of thousands of SKUs of each day on a computer located in the zone.
This collaboration between Eastbay and Champs Sports is another great example of the creativity of our teams as we drive the evolution of the store experience to be integrated with our industry leading digital capabilities.
The first four Eastbay performance on shops will open in Champs Sports next month.
We'll have one each in St.
Petersburg Florida Minneapolis Milwaukee and Sacramento.
Now let me turn it back to Dick to discuss our progress on some of our intermediate and longer term opportunities.
Dick? Thanks Ken.
Our biggest incremental capital commitment both during the last few years and going forward is our store remodel program.
We continue to roll-out the Tyrone format at Champs Sports and the Willowbrook format at Foot Locker.
We're on track to have remodeled 20% of the Foot Locker stores in the U.S.
and 30% of the Champs Sports stores by the end of 2014.
We're still in test mode for the new remodel format for Footaction.
Yearly leagues there are also encouraging.
So we will be expanding that past this year.
We're getting better and better at executing these remodel projects and the Willowbrook format is proving successful internationally.
So we believe we have a long runway ahead of us.
Cumulatively the remodel program is already producing good net sales reps even factoring in the time when stores are closed for construction.
We believe the momentum of improved sales will get even stronger as we complete more remodel projects during next several quarters.
Next our investment and technology is also continuing.
Our labor scheduling system is in place in North America and Europe and our teams in the field already love it.
We expect our store managers to learn to use the tool even more effectively in the years ahead.
Meanwhile our hiring tool has been implemented with great success throughout the U.S and we're currently evaluating the 2015 rollout in Europe.
We're already seeing the benefits of both of these tools and the sales productivity of our associates in our expense results.
We're in the final stages of preparing our new merchandise allocation system for a rollout beginning in the fall of this year.
We're testing the system carefully.
We expect this to be a very powerful tool in the hands of our merchants as we seek to lower markdowns and improve sales further by delivering the right product to right stores at the right time in the right quantities and sizes.
We are also investing in other ways to make our inventory more productive.
For example we're providing our store associates with tools such as handheld devices and digital displays to serve their customers better even when the product they want isn't in a particular store.
We found we can't take a one size fits all approach.
Technology is changing quickly.
We have stores for different size and staff and challenges.
But we're constantly looking for ways to help our associates to satisfy their customers and invest aggressively when the returns justify.
Finally our women's banners are improving with a positive low single-digit comp in April and so far this month.
But the business is not yet where we want it to be.
The Lady Foot Locker the Bridgewater remodel changes we talked about last time which include an enhanced footwear wall and pant helping to improve are helping to improve the base per chain.
We have quite a few more of these Bridgewater projects to complete this spring in summer.
Meanwhile SIX:02 continues to do well.
But we are still in the test mode.
We've opened helping to improve stores in the Dallas area and in Florida and we're working to build the brand awareness quickly in those local markets.
We're also testing different assortment mixes to ensure that the productivity formula for SIX:02 is optimal prior to making a roll-out decision later this year.
Ken? Thanks Dick.
Before we get to your questions let me just summarize the quarter by saying that during our call in March we laid out some challenging expectations for 2014.
And we executed consistently in the first quarter to meet and in fact exceed those expectations.
And I know from experience that not every quarter will be a strong as the past one but the message I want to leave you with is that this performance is not the result of floating down a stream and letting the currents dictate our results by chance.
On the contrary our entire team is highly focused on our financial and operational objectives and actively driving our business to achieve those objectives.
There will be headwinds on the course ahead I’m sure but at the same time we have every confidence and ability of the team at Foot Locker to respond quickly to those challenges make adjustments and continue to move forwards towards (audio gap).
We’ll be happy to take your questions.
Could you go ahead Christine? Okay.
Thanks and congrats guys on a great quarter.
Thanks Seth.
Just follow-up on the women’s business the low single-digit improvement you’re seeing in April or you start in April and then so far this month anything specific that you can point to that striving that.
Do you feel like it’s a little bit of weather or anything else that’s maybe changed in the business? And then maybe more broadly the improvement that you’re seeing in some of the women’s remodels or prototypes that you have is that both in footwear and apparel any areas that maybe working better than others just more color would be great? Yes Seth.
We’re seeing an improvement because I think we’re getting the assortment to work more right there focused on at mid-20 to 30-year old woman and performance oriented.
And we also to some degree are anniversaring out of some of the things that we did in the past promotional elements.
Hence we are seeing a good performance in the -- that performance apparel as we get more of it right in the stores.
We all saw the performance shoes are doing well.
So we think now we’ve got the assortment right.
We’re fine tuning it in the stores.
We also have more stores that have more apparel in them and we know that apparel is an important part of that what that customers looking for as she puts here outfits together.
So I would say it’s not just one thing but getting a lot of work that we’ve done over the past year and a half since we opened our first SIX:02 and started to updated the Lady Foot Locker stores and we’re starting to see the benefits of that.
And the stores certainly look better but do you feel like the awareness of those changes where it needs to be or is that an opportunity just to kind of let that shopper know that things are looking a lot better in the store that they should come back? It’s a definite opportunity.
It's one of the reasons why as Dick mentioned we’re clustering some of those stores and markets so that we get more awareness and help ourselves there.
We are actually doing better in the ladies because they’ve got to built-in customer base when we start to put the apparel in.
But I think ultimately we know the customer when she gets into SIX:02 she like SIX:02 we just have to get more people to become aware of it.
Sure.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Seth.
Thanks and nice job in the quarter guys.
Thanks Camilo.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the relative performance of apparel in the remodel stores versus the base and maybe help us understand the magnitude of improvement in those remodeled store so we can see a pathway towards you ultimately getting to that 30% mix contribution? As we said this is Dick Camilo.
As I’ve said in the remarks I mean we’re certainly seeing apparel performed better in our remodeled stores.
We can tell our merchandizing stories.
We got better adjacencies with the footwear and we see a pickup.
We’re not going to get into the specifics of the amount of the pickup just to tell you that it is better.
We’ll have 20% of the Foot Locker stores remodeled by the end of the year and 30% of the Champs stores remodeled by the end of the year.
So we anticipate continuing to see progress.
Is it fair to say that it’s…? Let me just one other thing well it's not the only factor but one of the things -- we’re pretty well through remodeling the children’s chain and we feel pretty good about the performance in children’s.
And so while we don’t think we’ll get the same big impact in kids.
We know that our current remodels in Champs and Foot Locker are meeting their expectations and our capital goals.
Okay great.
And then just shifting over to the quarter to-date trends that you said mid-single-digit thus far is there any difference in the number of launches in this period if quarter to-date versus last year because I think that there are eight new launches from Nike over the next few days that would seemingly have a pretty big impact on that quarter to-date number that were reported few days later? Well we’ve got -- when we look at the launch calendars coming over whether they line ups specifically on the day or the weekend is not always the case but throughout the quarter they are relatively equal.
So the quarter to-date number was certainly be impacted by the line that launches on Saturday but that just an offset to a different launch a year ago.
So I think that again the second quarter doesn’t have quite as many exciting events whether it’s a February with the All-Star game and a chance to drive or Spring Breaks or whatever it is.
So I think the mid-single-digit put long reference to our in line with our expectation.
Okay.
And just a housekeeping question for Lauren what was the dollar contribution from RBG in the quarter? We don't disclose the results of the segments individually.
But it was positive to the quarter.
All right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck for the rest of the year.
Thank you sir.
Thanks good morning.
With regards to the merchandize margin pressure I know that this has been an ongoing thing can you remind us again where the pressure is coming from is it more footwear or apparel and what your outlook is for this sort of for the rest of the year.
And well I know you’re being successful of offsetting some of these margin pressure from the control of inventory and the limited markdowns are there any kinds of changes to mix that can help alleviate some of the merchandizing margin pressure? Let start with what we saw in Q1 because mix was faster.
So we back off 30 basis points in merchandize margins and more of that was related to -- I am new which was not a case of the costs to up-selling it was more case of the vendor.
So IMU is not equal across all vendors.
So as vendor mix shift that hasn’t impact.
The other element to the quarter our merchandized margin with a strong result in direct-to-customer segment which does have a bit of a lower merchandize margins but very comparable finished margins plus fixed costs so that’s what happened in Q1.
But as we look forward we expect to get strong leverage on the fixed which gives us 30 to 50 basis points opportunity we outlined.
And there are numbers of things that we’re working on that we believe in the long-term we’ll improve the merchandize margins.
So things like that allocation tool that comes on line for in the fall will help us to do better job of the right and getting place -- right product at right place right time etcetera etcetera.
So that will help us on the top line but it's also going to help us on the margin because this should impact our fewer markdowns.
And then as we work on apparel that’s another opportunity as we get up to back to the 30% penetration that we think we can achieve and ultimately get to merchandize margin rates on apparels that are other than footwear should be the case.
We also have then apparel the opportunity to start to rebuild lot of brands and we’re starting to see that as we’ve shifted from cotton by the pound to more appropriate product for the assortment we’ve had.
And as we get that business moving forward that will also help our margins.
And if I could just follow-up to one thing that you said with regards to the new systems and implementations that come on in the fall will that be an immediate impact to margins or we see that as soon as the new systems are implemented? That something that we will build over time right so its intention how to get the right product to the right place.
It will give you a little bit of insight immediately to stuff that you haven't sent out to a store yet where you might make adjustments but where it gives you your real power is you start to influence orders.
Most systems today it’s a learning systems so it will learn as we allocate stores and see selling patterns etcetera the system will start to track that history.
So -- while there would be some immediate impact is more I’ll talk about that will certainly grow over time as the system learns and sees our selling patterns.
Yes as we get every quarter using that.
And we put more categories on because it’s going to be rolled out by category.
Okay great.
And if I could snick in more questions on kids I think you said you’re expanding some of the kids business within the other brand banners is this something that would be completed by back-to-school or will this be ongoing? That’s an ongoing effort.
As we evaluate the loss space in the sales productivity we will identify opportunities to expand in that various across banner and across geography.
So KFL certainly our strongest we continue to open doors and KFL will see some progress some expand of space back-to-school but it’s an ongoing effort.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Let me ask about kids how is that business performing in Europe and what are the opportunities to kind of build the kids business there? It's -- as we talked about kids has a great opportunity in all geographies with actually our opening and testing in Kids Foot Lockers in various countries in Western Europe where we do business already.
So it continues to become a bigger part of the mix in Europe and we think that there are opportunities to potentially have a more complete chain of kids Foot Lockers in Western Europe.
And it has the performance of the kids business within the Foot Lockers stores is there been a strong as what you’re seeing in the U.S.
or? Yes.
Okay.
And then on the running business I think you guys said that international is up low double-digit U.S.
down mid-singles what’s the reason for that big difference I mean is it somewhat weather-related or is it from fashion standpoint or why the big difference there? Well outside of the U.S.
the running silhouette is the preferred silhouette for our key consumers.
So in the U.S.
basketball silhouettes and if you take a look at some of the basketball silhouettes today the low tops the Venomenon some of the KD product they are not distinctly different than a running silhouette.
They are not distinctly different than the running silhouette I mean obviously their performance basketball shoes but if they’re on quote they’re able to be warned in many circumstances.
So I think the difference is really that across the globe running is silhouette of preference and the U.S.
basketball just as very significantly and very strong.
Okay.
And then you said that pretty encouraged that with new running product in the pipeline maybe this is my interpretation but it sounds like you guys that business could get better as we go into the back half of the year is that the case and if that is when do you think the new product will have an impact on the running business in the U.S? Well we see a good product in the pipeline across a lot of categories but certainly in running and then the ZX Flux that I mentioned over in Europe.
Some of the three nets that we’ve seen hit in U.S.
we’ll continue to add to quantities that we’ve got available.
So we expect going into the summer and back-to-school that we’ll see more running product available and strong powerful sales from that product.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thanks Mitchel.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Hi Sam.
Hi.
Couple of things one can you give us some idea of a differential between European and domestic margins.
Right now I don't need the specifics but I mean to say what kind of base point differential are we seeing and can that evolve into something different overtime?  Yeah again we don't disclose by banners.
There is opportunity in Europe in our international businesses.
They have been historically less commercial which supports very strong product margins but as we have improved the productivity in the U.S.
we're seeing the gap grow.
So we think that there is upside still to the international margins.
Thank you.
And then what is the - what's the long-term store growth targets now for both Europe and for RPG and what are we seeing there for - how you're looking at the longer term store base opportunity there? We think there is still opportunities to open stores Sam but the reality is that when we remodel and do things adding House of Hoops adding Yardlines we're actually increasing our square footage.
So we're driving productivity we're increasing our square footage as we begin to segment and differentiate the Runners Point stores and Runners Point Foot Locker and Sidestep in Germany and we get that formula right we think there will be the opportunity as we've said in previous calls to Runners Point and test Runners Point and Sidestep outside of Germany.
So we've said that we believe across Europe there is an opportunity more than 700 750 Foot Locker's and that could be Foot Locker's Kid Foot Locker's in Europe there are under penetrated markets such as France markets that we are just getting into such as Turkey.
But we think there is an opportunity for Foot Locker.
We also believe that Runners Point Group provides an opportunity in other parts of Europe and whether that's a Runners Point or Sidestep store we are in the process of determining and we have not really made up - developed a point of view as to where and how big that will be but when we bought the chain we said this is more than just a Germany business.
Thank you.
And then lastly are you seeing - you commented Dick that the launches were pretty equal year-over-year.
Are you seeing - what kind of increases and allocations are you seeing on the marquee products either Jordon or Nike marquee? Sam we don't really discuss the level of allocation.
I mean that's an ongoing discussion and opportunity with our suppliers.
So - Have you seek to drive like your good comps for the quarter and your good comps quarter to-date.
I mean how much of that was driven by having great product and how much of it is was being driven by having more grade products-- We have a lot of great products that is both release and non-release related.
We're not going to impact with our allocations for release products there.
Well thank you very much and continued success.
Thanks.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Jay.
I just want to ask about buybacks.
$70 million of buybacks in the quarter was the highest first quarter in the company's history.
Are you looking to continue to maintain that level through the rest of the year? And can we continue to see buybacks increase as the cash flows allows it even into 2015 and beyond?  We announced at the beginning of the last year $600 billion of program in five quarter and have spent 300 of that we got half of it locked by that math you can see that the pace is up.
Okay.
That sounds great.
And then let me just ask in a quick e-com question.
I think you said DTC was up 17.2.
There has been obviously e-commerce growing much faster than stores.
Can you talk about when you see the DTC growth maybe normalizing because fairly a shift from stores to online but is there a point where you see that growth rate slowing or did you see a continuous shift from stores into online? I think that e-commerce will continue to grow faster than brick-and-mortar for some time.
It's a much smaller number.
Even as fast as it's growing it's still just a fraction of what all the brick-and-mortar is.
That said what we are doing is rather than particularly the more developed e-commerce market the United States we are not adding stores we are making our stores more exciting places to draw people and we think that's benefiting us.
So our square footage is up but the number of stores are down and our focus is connecting the online and the store because we're seeing the customer particularly our customer is somewhat agnostic as to where and how they buy and they go back and forth between stores and e-commerce to shop online in the store they will shop at home and then come to a store all sorts of different ways.
And we're very excited about the concept that we're putting in between Champs and Eastbay because that ultimately connects and makes our virtual store a real store for the customer.
And it takes a real store and helps give it a much more virtual capability.
And I think ultimately this is where retail will go and it'll be a combination and it's one of the reasons why retailers include .com in their store for store number because it's the bigger store.
It is a store and it is connected to all of the stores.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
So we got that commercial element.
Thanks.
All right thanks Jay.
Hi good morning.
So as we think about sales productivity longer term what do you guys see the greatest opportunity as we're approaching that $500 target? The single greatest would be really difficult to say I think that we see as we had tools as we give the merchandise mix right in the store as we had training for our associates.
Those all drive productivities.
So whether that's in a singular banner or singular geography I think we've got tremendous productivity opportunities across the board.
So we shouldn't think about $500 as a sealing by any means just more of a goal.
$500 is the goal.
What we have done in the past and probably will do in the future is set goals to hit and then move beyond them.
People do always talk about retail as a marathon and I say no a marathon has an end.
Retail does not have an end.
We just keep going.
And so we have one goal we go past another and it's indicative by the results of this quarter when you think about it our company has a history of over 100 years and this was the best quarter in over 100 years.
By the way next first quarter next year want to see that again and the next first quarter and the next first quarter.
That's what we're working towards.
Great.
And then as we think about the SG&amp;A line so excluding RPG and the legal reserve looks like leverage is almost 75 basis points.
As we think going forward should we think about our low single-digit fixed cost hurdles that you can hold that over time is that kind of the best way to think about the expenses? We can lever with single digits content.
Again think about the guidance we gave you 20 to 30 basis points on the single-digit comp gain.
Great.
Best of luck.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
Hey good morning I share my congrats on a great first quarter and for good month to date results ahead of a blockbuster Memorial Day weekend headlines - all of my questions have been asked.
So I'll pass the mic.
Thanks Paul.
Appreciated.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Actually it's -- Ken I wanted to ask you guys commented already on the share repurchase but could you remind us I mean you have $1 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
Can you remind us priorities you see for that cash? And maybe weave in there your appetite for more acquisitions especially in Europe? Thanks.
Okay sure Robbie.
Our priorities remain the same first and foremost to make sure that we have a solid financial base for the company.
We're in an industry that has up and downs and we need to make sure that we're positioned securely.
And there are companies right now that aren't -- they don't have the financial strength and they're in trouble we don't want to get in that position.
Two to grow and take advantage of the opportunities so we can continue to deliver the results.
We're doing that with remodels with systems and with different things to improve our business where appropriate.
The third is to make sure we recognize and reward our shareowners.
We have a very viable dividend program and an active share buyback program that we've talked about.
We look and evaluate opportunities to grow the company externally on an ongoing basis.
We look at a lot of different things all the time and when we see one that is appropriate we will take action.
In Europe we've had a couple over the last couple years.
One that was a very small acquisition in the Czech Republic that allowed us to get in there position ourselves with eight stores and make sure that we started on the right foot in that market.
Another was the Runners Point Group a much more significant acquisition that we feel positions us: one in the biggest country in Europe much better.
Two gives us some other formats that we can develop in Europe.
And three a dot com capability.
If we can find things that will enhance the company like those two acquisitions in Europe we will take advantage of them.
But as I say all the time we've got good open to listen but we're not going to -- we don't have the money burning a hole in our pocket that we've got to go do something that's not very smart.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Got it and I just have a quick follow-up question for Dick.
Dick I think you mentioned in the comments something about the competitive environment in apparel in the malls and on the internet.
And could you -- I was hoping you could maybe just elaborate what you were referring to.
Thanks.
I think Robbie if you look at the nature of some of the vertical fast fashion people our kid shops a lot of different places and the big verticals and the fast fashion guys make it difficult to necessarily compete on some of the fundamental basics.
So as we target more premium athletic hook up apparel we just have to learn to react quicker.
I think that the kid has a lot of options; both online and in the mall and we have to create reasons for them to come and shop for apparel from us.
It's the reason we got out of like the cheap T-shirts the promotional T-shirts.
We were not making it a major part of our business.
There's too many choices.
And then when you take even a printed T-shirt now and you've got some of the vertical people who are selling their name T-shirts that used to sell for very high prices at big discounts that makes it more challenging for us to sell $20 and $25 T-shirts.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much.
Okay.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations as well.
Thanks Chris.
Just quick -- just first question -- just on Europe.
Just impressive to continue to see the momentum there.
I know the apparel business was tough.
I guess just give us your thoughts about sustainability of that comp performance.
Just kind of how you see things potentially unfolding as the year progresses maybe some catalysts around the European business will be helpful.
Yes I think Chris that we've got some momentum and traction there as we continue with our strong kids business as we look at the remodels and the Willowbrooks that we're putting in play where apparel will be again able to be featured more as we get the apparel assortment right.
We think that what we're doing in Europe we're doing a lot of the right things.
So we think that the traction we've seen is sustainable.
Yeah we've also Chris seen an expansion of what we're doing in running Dick talked about the ZX and Frees and things like that that have a better position in running.
And basketball is actually developing as a business in Europe and we're positioned as the leading basketball person.
So you take the kids business getting the apparel business on track the way we want and we're both the big elements in footwear feel pretty good about Europe.
And our growth in digital.
Yeah.
Okay all right that's good to hear.
And then just on the apparel business it's nice to see some improvement in the remodels.
I know Europe has been a little tough but I think previously you had thought possibly apparel could be a comp business this year.
Is that potentially still the case or is there still -- you just kind of feel there's more work that needs to be done there before you can claim victory there on the apparel business? I don't know if we had said in the past about claiming victory in apparel.
We believe that we've got some things that will help us improve our apparel business.
And-- One of those being the remodels.
The remodels are one of them.
The growth quite frankly in children's and women's helped because we didn't have an apparel business in kids and now we've got an apparel business in kids.
Women's apparel is a bigger part of their business than other businesses.
And so we think that and our vendors efforts on apparel they are having some of the same challenges and they're making some new product and things that I think will help us in apparel.
Okay all right.
Well all the best talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Chris.
Thanks.
Really nice execution guys congratulations.
Thank you Omar.
It's also nice not to have a golf business I'm sure at least a meaningful one.
Two quick questions.
Number one it was interesting to hear you mention Puma earlier in the call.
It's really been several years since that brand had a significant seat at the table back when the low profile trend was big.
Any thoughts there what's happening with that brand? Is low profile coming back or is Puma evolving its brand in a way that's more relevant to your customer? And then just also just another follow-up on Europe.
I look at the huge the really strong balance sheet situation the cash on the balance sheet.
Europe is a market where there really isn't a pan-European competitor that's relevant.
And even allows a local market competitors are competitors.
Why not get more aggressive there with store openings really to fill in that marketplace given how much white space there is? Is that something you'd consider doing pushing the accelerator in Europe? Thanks.
Well we obviously invested in RPG.
I'll answer your second question first.
We obviously invested in RPG which gave us almost 200 more doors in Germany which strongest economy in Western Europe.
Over the last five years I think we've opened 160 150 or 160 Foot Locker -- Kids Foot Locker doors.
So we've had a pretty aggressive program in Western Europe.
And we've got -- when we talked about the use of capitals our remodel program is a big program.
So again part of it is having all of the geographies all of the banners that we have to make progress in and weighing those -- we love all of our children we just sometimes we can't love them equally but they all get a slice of capital.
So we think that there's certainly opportunity in Western Europe.
Yeah.
And another thing that we're doing in Western Europe is the development of the internet which will help that business and also cover some of the territories.
Your first question we are a house of brands and we work very hard to make sure that those leading brands are positioned well.
We've got a terrific partner in Nike and working with them on some franchises.
We've got a terrific party in Jordan working with them on franchises.
We've got a terrific partner in Adidas working with them and other brands Converse you go into our Kids store; we have a place where Converse is set up.
We've got some places with Under Armour that we're working on.
Puma is a brand that has fallen on hard times.
We think that it has potential whether our timing is perfect I don't know.
But I believe in the Management team that Puma has now and I believe that they will come back and that it will be a good opportunity for both of us.
Thanks Ken great job.
Okay.
Thanks Omar.
All right I think we have time for just one more question.
Hey good morning.
Congrats on a nice quarter guys.
Thank you.
May be Lauren just one modeling question quickly.
The spread of total revenue growth versus comp growth it was pretty wide versus flat to negative in the past few quarters.
Could you help us think about that for the model and how is that going to continue going forward? Yeah that big gap is the addition of the Runners Point Group business which came in to us in July so we'll have that delta there for May and June and then we begin to cycle against that.
And like we've said spring is their biggest season so this was a bigger sales lift than the fall seasons were.
Okay thanks.
And then Ken just as we think about everything we've talked about over the years since you got to the company and I think women's and Lady Foot Locker have been one of the areas that's been slower to turn than you thought.
We've seen obviously the department stores at the end of the mall are piling into a lot more square footage allocated to women's obviously the off mall guys struggle with getting their percent of mix to women up higher.
Do you feel like as with the end of the mall and the anchors getting much more aggressive in that category there's maybe a window of opportunity that's closing for you guys? Or do you feel any need to I guess speed up the approach to try and get Lady Foot Locker turned around and get 602 rolled out or anything like that? Well we -- I believe that women's business is still the biggest opportunity.
I never -- believe me; I knew it would be a challenge.
There have been a lot of reasons why part of it is some legacy and things that we have part of it is as the brands develop their capability.
One of the things that I firmly believe is as the general merchandisers start to step something up that presents an even better opportunity for the specialists.
So we're working to make sure we have it right and I think we're getting much closer to that.
And we will be able to step out and offer something that nobody else can a place for a woman to shop to buy her shoes and apparel to be physically active and look good and find different brands and fits to best satisfy her needs.
And that's really what we're looking at where we're going and I don't think a department store can do that.
I don't think a sporting goods store can do that.
The space is not conducive to giving her that opportunity.
And because we are a house of brands and we offer those things I firmly believe that we are fast approaching -- or the window is not closing and we're fast approaching where we have a good answer.
We will be thoughtful in how we do it and people can be critical of being maybe a little bit slow but I think that over the past 17 quarters the results show being a little bit slow ain't always bad.
For sure.
And I didn't mean to sound like-- It's hard to deliver.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thanks Michael.
And thanks everybody for the call.
That's all we have time for today.
We look forward to having you join us on our next call that we anticipate will take place at 9:00 A.M.
on Friday August 22nd following the release of our second quarter and year-to-date earnings results earlier that morning.
Thanks again and goodbye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Foot Locker’s Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company’s press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Incorporated’s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could product significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today’s release it is available on the internet at <a href="http://www.prnewswire.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.prnewswire.com</u></a> or <a href="http://www.footlocker-inc.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.footlocker-inc.com</u></a>.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I’ll now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you Richard.
Welcome everyone and good morning.
Thank you all for joining us today to discuss Foot Locker Inc.’s third quarter results.
In this morning’s press release we reported net income of $120 million in the third quarter a 15% increase over the $104 million that the company earned in the third quarter of 2013.
On a per-share basis we earned $0.82 this year on a GAAP basis compared to $0.70 a year ago an increase of 17%.
Year-to-date our net income totals $374 million or $2.55 per share on a GAAP basis an increase of 25% over earnings per share in the comparable nine month period last year.
As noted in our release we incurred approximately $1 million of Runners Point Group integration costs.
Excluding this expense third quarter non-GAAP EPS was a penny higher at $0.83 a 22% increase over the $0.68 a share we earned on a non-GAAP basis last year.
A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results is included in our press release and except as noted otherwise the numbers mentioned during our remarks this morning will be based on the non-GAAP results.
As I’m sure you’re all aware we had an important development at the beginning of the month with Ken Hicks announcing his retirement as Chief Executive Officer effective December 1 and Dick Johnson’s election by our board of directors as his replacement.
Ken will remain Executive Chairman of the board until our annual meeting in May of 2015.
Ken and Dick will touch on that transition during their remarks but first Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide a detailed review of our third quarter and year-to-date financial results.
Lauren will be followed by Dick who will provide color on the key trends in the business and the most important drivers of our recent operational performance.
Ken will close our prepared remarks with an assessment of our progress on the strategic initiatives that have us well along the path to achieving many of our current long-term objectives.
As always we look forward to answering your questions after our prepared comments.
First up Ms.
Peters.
Thank you John and good morning to you all.
We appreciate your interest in Foot Locker and our ongoing development as a high performance company.
Our success in the quarter started with excellent top line growth with our comparable sales increasing 6.9%.
The momentum was driven by our continued sharp focus on improving the productivity of our three primary assets - our inventory our real estate and most importantly our talented team of associates in whom we continue to invest in order to give them every opportunity to win with our customers.
The productivity gains led to a higher gross margin rate at 33.2% of sales this year compared to 33.1% a year ago and a 20.4% of sales SG&amp;A rate this year 60 basis points better than last year’s third quarter.
Looking at our sales gains in detail our comparable sales gain was driven by footwear which was up low double digits while apparel was down mid-single digits.
Within footwear men’s sales were up high single digits women’s was up strong mid-single digits and children’s was once again up double digits.
Not only was our quarterly comp gain in line with our year-to-date trend our sales increases by segment were also similar to the second quarter with athletic store sales up 5.8% this quarter versus 6.1 in Q2 while sales in our direct-to-customer segment increased 15.5% versus 14.9% last quarter.
Within the direct segment Eastbay was up mid single digits in the quarter a somewhat stronger performance than Q2 while our U.S.
store banner dot-com sales continued to increase at close to a 40% pace.
Although store banner dot-com sales remain our fastest growing business we have yet to reach our goal of having them represent in aggregate at least 10% of brick and mortar sales.
Turning to our store segment the differentiation of our store banners in both customer experience and product assortment has been a fundamental driver of our success over recent years and with that differentiation comes naturally a certain diversity of short-term results given the varying strength of fashion trends within each banner.
With that said I am pleased to be able to report that all of our banners posted comparable sales gains in the third quarter.
We were led this quarter by Foot Action which produced a low double-digit gain followed closely by Foot Locker in the U.S.
and Kids Foot Locker both with high single digit gains.
Lady Foot Locker achieved another strong mid-single digit gain the second such quarter in a row.
You heard us talk about green shoots and green fuzz - well the grass in our women’s business continues to grow in nicely.
Unlike our men’s division the strength in Lady Foot Locker was led by apparel which was up in the teens while footwear was up mid-singles.
Our Foot Locker Europe and Foot Locker Asia-Pacific divisions both achieved mid-single digit comparable sales gains.
In Europe the Foot Locker banner comps positively in almost all countries while Runners Point Group was also up in the quarter overall although their comp result was only part of our consolidated comparable sales number for the month of October.
Finally Champs Sports and Foot Locker Canada both had small gains.
Champs Sports in particular was affected by a relatively large number of stores being closed for remodeling late in the quarter.
In terms of cadence through the quarter we posted a high single-digit comp gain in August a low double-digit gain in September and we managed to end up just on the right side of positive in October.
Let me put that cadence in perspective for you.
First we had a very strong back-to-school season in August and September.
To use an old retail cliché we succeeded in the quarter by taking our best shot when the ducks were flying.
October is by far the smallest month of the quarter; accordingly significant timing shifts can have a disproportionate effect on comps in October and we did in fact have a couple of key product shifts one a Jordan retro the other the delayed LeBron 12.
The Jordan and the bulk of the LeBron 12 moved out of October into Q4 and the fact that we had a positive comp in October despite these shifts is a testament to the strength of our base business.
Finally that shifted Jordan retro did launch successfully this past Saturday leading our month-to-date comp gain for November to currently stand at low double-digits.
Just as you can’t look at October alone you also have to put our current month-to-date results in the proper context.
These two and a half weeks are low volume relative to the big holiday selling season coming up.
If you look at our comp results for October and November to date combined it is basically running mid-single digits and our month-to-date performance is considered in our plans for a mid-single digit comparable sales gain for Q4.
Turning to the rest of the income statement I mentioned earlier the 10 basis point improvement in our gross margin rate.
This was achieved primarily by leveraging our fixed costs as we continue to push to improve sales per square foot and reduce occupancy expense as a percent of sales.
This leverage was partially offset by a lower merchandise margin rate which included a negative 20 basis point impact related to the liquidation of CCS merchandise.
Meanwhile the trends of lower initial mark-up rates and lower shipping income continued in the third quarter.
We did also manage to significantly lower our markdown rates while maintaining the freshness of our inventory.
All these pluses and minuses added up to produce the overall 10 basis point improvement in gross margin.
Our expense management teams had another excellent performance in the third quarter to produce the 60 basis point decrease in our SG&amp;A rate to 20.4%.
The payback from the investment in various training programs and technology tools can be seen in improvement in sales per hour in every one of our divisions.
We did also manage to keep our marketing expense in line with last year in the quarter despite the shift from Q2 that Q3 that we mentioned during last quarter’s call.
Depreciation expense actually decreased to $34 million $1 million below last year.
The decline this quarter was primarily a function of a true-up of capital accruals.
Going forward we still expect depreciation to increase year-over-year reflecting the ongoing investments we are making in our store fleet our digital businesses and various system technologies.
Overall these investments are expected to drive productivity improvements in both the near term and over the next several years.
At the very beginning of the year we set a plan of $220 million in capital expenditures for 2014.
We’re currently tracking towards $210 million as economies of scale in purchasing and improved designs have produced savings in some of our store capex programs and the timing of technology projects has been refined.
Our Q3 tax rate was 35.8% higher than last year’s 35% rate.
Both periods benefited from one-time tax audit settlements that allowed us to release tax reserves causing our tax rate to come in lower than our normal 36.5%.
Putting it all together we were able to flow through 25% of our $109 million sales gain to the bottom line producing another record for quarterly profits $121 million on a non-GAAP basis.
Contributing to our strong results is the improving productivity of our inventory.
We posted an inventory increase of less than 1% compared to a total sales gain of 6.7% leading to a solid increase in our inventory turn rate.
A stronger U.S.
dollar reduced reported inventory in the quarter somewhat but even using constant currencies our inventory increased less than 3% still well within our standard of having inventory increase no more than half the rate of sales increases.
We ended the quarter with $916 million of cash on the balance sheet the result of another quarter of strong operating cash flow.
We continue to invest in the business and return cash to our shareholders through our dividends and share repurchase programs.
During the quarter the pending announcement of Ken’s retirement did prevent us from executing any open market repurchases in the quarter.
The $38 million we spent to repurchase 683 000 shares in the third quarter was all done under programs set up before the quarter began.
We are not currently aware of any constraints to open market repurchases during the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date we have repurchased more than 3.5 million shares spending $174 million in the process and we have returned an additional $96 million through our dividend program meaning we have returned almost three-quarters of our year-to-date net income to shareholders.
Turning to real estate we ended the third quarter with 3 474 company-operated stores an increase of 14 from the end of the second quarter and one more than we started the year with.
We currently expect to reduce our store count by about 25 stores by the end of the year.
On the other hand gross square footage is projected to increase more than 2% from the beginning of the year.
The stores we are opening tend to be larger than the stores we are closing and we frequently add a House of Hoops or other vendor shop-in-shop concept to remodeled stores.
These shops require additional space but they also direct traffic and improve the overall productivity of the stores.
Speaking of traffic it was down less than 1% in the quarter and some of that decline was due to a large number of remodel projects towards the end of the quarter.
Average selling prices continued to rise while units were off somewhat primarily due to a decline in our apparel penetration.
Before I turn the call over to Dick to cover the merchandise highlights let me make a couple of quick guidance comments.
In August we told you we expected 20 to 40 basis points of gross margin leverage in the second half of the year with the third quarter pressured by the liquidation of CCS inventory.
We’re still right on track there.
In terms of SG&amp;A due to our strong third quarter comp gain and our success in reducing certain variable expenses in Q3 we exceeded the 30 to 50 basis point improvement we expected over the back half but some of those expenses shifted to Q4.
We are in good shape to deliver our back half leverage guidance.
Finally the stronger dollar is a bit of an earnings headwind.
It has not been a significant factor through the first three quarters; however FX could lower our EPS in the fourth quarter by one or two cents at current exchange rates.
Unlike recent quarters our total sales percentage increase in Q4 is expected to be lower than our comparable sales gain because of the currency headwind.
As a reminder total sales are calculated using actual exchange rates whereas our comps are calculated on a constant currency basis.
Overall we are on track to achieve the top and bottom line guidance we gave you for the back half of 2014 a mid-single digit comparable sales increase and a double-digit gain in EPS.
Let me now turn the call over to Dick.
Thanks Lauren and good morning everyone.
Let me start by thanking the entire team at Foot Locker Incorporated for working so diligently to produce another record result for our business.
I know from experience how difficult the game retail is and to put together the long string of successful quarters that the team has accomplished is a testament to the skill hard work leadership and dedication of every player on the team.
I couldn’t be prouder or more humbled to have been elected the leader of this outstanding group beginning next month.
Lauren mentioned some remarkably consistent financial results between this quarter and last and much the same can be said of our merchandise trends.
I can sum it all up by saying we continue to have excellent results around the globe with lifestyle running product and boots while the Jordan brand and marquee basketball footwear also continue to drive solid sales gains especially in the U.S.
Meanwhile apparel remains a challenge especially in Europe and at Champs Sports.
Let me dive a little deeper into those themes for you.
First the lifestyle running category remains firmly on trend.
In men’s total running footwear was up in the teens with a high single-digit gain in the U.S.
and a gain well into the double digits internationally.
The Roshe Run Huarache and Max Air programs from Nike are performing very well as is the ZX Flux from Adidas.
In performance running some of the more technical brands are facing challenges although Brooks in our women’s business is a notable exception with solid sell-throughs.
We are also seeing initial success with certain smaller programs from New Balance and Puma.
We are tailoring the offerings of those and all our brands to create strong running assortments that reflect the diversity of our segmented customer bases in each of our unique banners.
Turning to our other big growth category basketball footwear was also up double digits.
As I’ve said before Jordan product remains very strong in all its components.
Jordan marquee was strong Jordan sportswear was outstanding and retros were up in the quarter despite the shift that Lauren mentioned of a significant launch into November.
Within signature basketball from Nike the big three players - Kobe KD and LeBron - continued to produce healthy gains and we’re seeing the beginning of what we expect could be a significant Kyrie Irving business in the future.
At the same time D Rose product [indiscernible] seems to be at a positive inflection point as he is working his way back onto the court and Under Armour has gotten into the game with their successful Clutch Fit shoe worn by Steph Curry.
Finally we produced a great start to the boot season by making significant early investments in Timberland and Nike Boots.
The inventory turn improvements that Lauren mentioned are mainly coming in footwear as our apparel assortments for the most part are still not turning as fast as we’d like.
As I mentioned the areas with the largest apparel challenges were the same as last quarter.
The declines were about the same as last quarter as well with apparel down double digits at Foot Locker Europe and down mid-single digits at Champs Sports.
Both divisions were once again affected by the fashion shift away from certain lifestyle apparel programs that had in prior years helped drive strong results in the category.
On top of that these divisions - in fact virtually all of our male-oriented divisions - have seen a major shift out of licensed apparel which is definitely not on trend right now.
That said our combined U.S.
Foot Locker divisions - Foot Locker Kids Foot Locker Lady Foot Locker and Foot Action - again generated a mid-single digit comparable sales increase in apparel.
Among the male banners the gains were strongest at Foot Action where we have developed an assortment of established brands mixed with smaller fashion forward vendors that has really resonated with the Foot Action customer.
Overall the apparel results in the U.S.
lacquered divisions were led by branded fleece including trend-right pants and hoodies as well as t-shirts shorts and hats that tie back to our premium footwear.
Tech fleece from Nike was strong and Tiro pants from Adi continue to sell well.
I’m now supposed to turn the call over to Ken but before I do that I’d like to offer him my deepest gratitude on behalf of the entire team here at Foot Locker.
The accomplishments of the company over the last five years have certainly been a true team effort but clearly Ken has been the catalyst to build the momentum we have in our business today.
He’s been an inspirational leader to everyone a true friend coach and mentor to me and I can hardly thank him enough for all he’s done - but I’ll give it my best shot.
Ken thanks very very much from all of us at Foot Locker.
Thanks Dick I really appreciate that.
It’s been a real pleasure to work with you the executive committee and everyone in the Foot Locker community.
That includes all of our terrific associates in the stores and facilities worldwide our world-class vendor partners our excellent landlords and all of our other suppliers; and of course that includes you on this call our shareholder who have supported and believed in the company during its transformation as Lauren said into a high performance company.
I feel very fortunate to have had the opportunity to work with this team to contribute to the favorable situation the company is now in which is we’ve achieved a strong market position and solid financial footing.
We have substantial growth opportunities ahead over the near medium and long-term horizon and a strong leadership team soon to be led by Dick that operates within a collaborative winning culture and that has the capability to build on our strengths seize our opportunities and develop new ideas to keep the momentum going which I believe will be for a long time.
We’re on a path in the near term to achieve or come close to many of the long-term financial objectives laid out in our strategic plan in early 2012.
We believe we’re headed to the end zone in 2014 but we’re not there yet so we aren’t ready to describe our next major game plan to you just now.
We expect to share that with you in the spring of next year.
For now I’ll just touch again on some of our key accomplishments.
First we produced 19 consecutive quarters of meaningful sales and profit growth a remarkable record of consistency that we believe can continue.
Second we’re in the perpetual process of differentiating our banners.
We’ve made tremendous progress from a merchandising and marketing perspective.
We’ve also developed exciting new store designs and we’re still in the early chukkas [ph] of building those out.
Third through organic growth in stores and direct-to-customer plus the successful acquisition and integration of Runners Point Group we have successfully increased our European penetration.
Our European business has held up financially through challenging economic times and continues to be a significant profit generator for the company.
Fourth we stepped up our children’s business to be a more meaningful part of our overall business both in the U.S.
and internationally and we’re still seeing double-digit gains there.
Fifth we focused significant resources on our store banner dot-com business which has been growing at close to a 40% pace for over the past two years.
Sixth we’ve developed an exciting new concept for women 602 which we believe will soon become a leader in serving the footwear and apparel needs of the athletically active young woman.
Over the long term we believe that 602 will become a billion-dollar opportunity for us.
Seventh we have very strong vendor partnerships which can be seen in the depth of our merchandise assortments the variety of vendor shop-in-shops we developed in concert with them and crucial for our future the alignment of our key growth strategies with theirs.
Finally we’ve made investments in the business in our store remodels in systems in facilities and above all in our people to improve our capabilities and productivity.
I believe our associates at every level have the skills training and tools at their disposal to build on our momentum and deliver great product and services to our customers wherever and however they want.
With that let me stop and just say again how grateful I am for the opportunity I’ve had to lead this tremendous organization over the last five-plus years as its CEO.
With all due respect to all the many other fantastic people I’ve worked with over the years this has certainly been the best job of my career and I’ll miss it.
That said I know that this is the right time for me to hand the baton to Dick.
He’s ready and the company has earned the privilege of leading this great company on the next leg of its journey to being the leading global retailer of athletically-inspired shoes and apparel.
Thank you all very much.
Let’s go ahead now and get to your questions.
Hi good morning.
On the leadership transition it’s an exciting time in the company.
Can you just take us behind the scenes a little bit and talk about some of the planning and the thought process that went into the transition and the thought process around the timing of it? Well the transition has actually been going on for quite some time.
We’ve been making sure that Dick had great exposure within the company in terms of the different operations and activities from leading our direct-to-customer business our international business and our largest banners in the United States and then the corporate opportunity.
We’ve also worked to have him more involved in the investment community on an outside board to enhance his development.
As we look at the timing both longer term and the immediate in the longer term we’re coming out with a new plan and I believe that the new leader or the leader who presents that plan and develops that plan should also lead during the planning period.
That means that I think it’s the right time for Dick to take over.
On the micro sense the way our business works now is a good time to transition so that Dick will be in place to make sure that we’re prepared for next back-to-school and next year.
We’ve got our program for this holiday in place and it’s really an execution program and for our February business so now is a very good time to make that hand-off and I know that Dick is ready and prepared for it.
Dick? Yeah I appreciate that Ken.
I think the timing as Ken said there are no down cycles in retail.
It’s a new game every day so it’s a matter of picking the right point and I guess the big benefit that we’ve got is that Ken’s going to be around as executive chairman and continue to be a bit of a mentor to me through our shareholder meeting in May.
So the CEO position transitions December 1 and we’re fortunate to have Ken around for a few more months.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Congrats Dick on the new position Ken on new beginnings and for a great new set of Week of Greatness commercials.
Glad you like them Paul.
They're fun aren’t they? So the footwear business is humming here.
Just wanted to talk about some of the other areas and Dick maybe you can give us a little bit more color on apparel and just how we kind of self-correct that both U.S.
and Europe.
What are expectations going forward? And then also the women’s business just want to understand a bit more how we get to the billion-dollar opportunity around 602 and what that means for the Lady Foot Locker banner given that it has stabilized in sales.
Well I’ll start with the apparel business and as I said the two weak points in apparel right now are Foot Locker Europe and Champs Sports but some of our other banners are actually having some significant success in apparel so it’s just the penetration in those two banners happens to be a little bit higher.
They have suffered a little bit as the trends have changed.
They had some significant lifestyle programs in the past that really drove the business and those programs have fallen out of favor a little bit with the consumer.
We’re seeing some success in certain items but we don’t have strong entire programs to drive those businesses right now so as we see success with items and we grow around that I think that we’ll see those businesses improve.
I know the team over in Europe and the team at Champs is working hard to make those changes.
I also believe that over time as we get our remodel program a little bit farther along those remodels are being done to help us tell better stories and showcase apparel so as that all comes together I really do believe that the apparel business will improve across the board.
As it relates to the women’s business and 602 the long-term optimistic view is that we can get that to be a billion-dollar business.
We’ve got a number of billion-dollar men’s banners; there’s no reason that we shouldn’t have a billion-dollar women’s banner.
Over time Paul we’ll transition properties.
I mean the challenge with our Lady Foot Locker stores and you’re 100% correct - they have stabilized themselves a bit as the team has focused on getting the product assortment right et cetera the 602 stores - and I think you’ve seen a couple of those Paul - are slightly bigger and we need a bigger footprint to drive the apparel business the way that we expect it to be driven for this active female consumer.
So I think that when we get to spring and we roll out our new plan we’ll have a lot more to talk about on the women’s side; but we are optimistic about how we’re going about the process and as we’ve talked about there is a portfolio of Lady Foot Locker stores that we have to manage our way through.
It’s not that we can just slap up a 602 sign and move forward so the team’s evaluating where we’re at from a lease perspective the timing of the rollout et cetera.
We’ll have a lot more to talk about that when we get to our new plan this spring.
Thank you that’s very helpful color.
Just turning quickly to the European business if you can just discuss a bit more about consumer there in those markets.
What’s kind of the store rollout plan as you see it going forward especially given a full year now of integration with RPG? We continue to see good opportunity in western Europe Paul.
We’ve got growth opportunities with our Foot Locker banner.
We’re also remodeling stores over there so the real estate strategy is a combination of door rollout remodels and vendor shops similar to what we do here in the U.S.
As it relates to rollout with RPG we’re going through the process that we went through a few years ago here in the U.S.
of segmenting Runners Point Sidestep and Foot Locker making sure that they can co-exist on the high streets in the malls in Europe so that plan continues to develop.
Again while we’ve got the running piece of the business segmented in our Runners Point stores we’re still working on what it looks like in Sidestep.
The one area that we haven’t talked about a lot specifically in western Europe is the growth of kids there as well.
We’ve got a few Kids Foot Locker stores that we’re testing.
We do a great kids business inside our Foot Locker stores so we think that presents a great opportunity in the European market as well.
Thanks a lot for the color.
Thanks Paul.
Hi good morning and congrats on a great run Ken.
Can you guys talk about progress with localization and opportunity with your merchandise allocation system pilot that you guys have been working on?  The pilot is really farther along in western Europe.
We’ll see a lot of advantage come from that as the learning system begins to learn and anticipate how we’re buying and selling product.
I think that that will truly help our localization as we’ll be able to flow the right product in the right color and the right sizes back into the stores quickly after we see what the initial reaction to the product is and while we’re optimistic about the rollout of the system it will take some time to take full advantage of the benefits that we’ll have.
We believe that the benefits are many so as we continue to get ready to pilot that system in the U.S.
we’re cautiously optimistic about the benefits.
And they should be more than just localization too.
Right place right product right time it’s going to help us with in-stocks it should help us with more full-price selling and it will help turns so we’re very excited about it.
Great and then can you just walk through some of the underlying components of the gross margin in the quarter specifically core merchandise margins buying and occupancy leverage and was there any impact from FX? FX no.
The components were again leverage on the fixed and we had some minuses about 20 basis points due to the CCS inventory liquidation so that was a unique item.
As we’ve talked about before the continued pressure on IMU which is really a result of vendor and category mix has been a drag but we’ve been able to offset that somewhat with our continued improvement in the assortment allocation et cetera that’s led to lower markdowns.
So it’s a lot of ins and outs that added up to that 10 basis point improvement but we would continue to expect the leverage dynamic going in our favor with that pressure in IMU somewhat offset by markdowns.
Okay great.
Best of luck.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Ken congrats also on a great run and Dick on your new role ahead.
A question on international.
It sounds like you’re doing an investor day or an analyst day next year but kind of want to see how you guys are thinking about international beyond--get an update on how you’re thinking about international beyond Europe.
I kind of kept hearing that term global dominant retailer in the category.
I would love to hear your thoughts there maybe from both of you.
Well I’ll start out Omar.
We’ve got stores down in New Zealand and Australia as well and we have stores in Canada which is an international location obviously.
We look at markets and evaluate markets all of the time and contemplate should we be there how should we be there.
We’ve got franchise arrangements in the Middle East and in Korea that stretch our brand a bit as well.
So we’ll continue to evaluate markets and opportunities and I hate to keep referring to the spring but we’ll talk a little bit more about what some of those could be; but at this point there’s nothing on the short time frame.
Yeah Omar we are looking all the time at opportunities but we also want to make sure those opportunities are accretive to the overall company.
I think that one of the things that you see within the industry from the vendors the growth opportunities quite ironically are really North America and western Europe are the developing countries.
They are providing some of the strongest growth and we happen to be strong there so we’re taking advantage of that but that’s not to say that we don’t look at other opportunities.
We do but we feel based upon the items that I laid out in my discussion between women’s kids apparel the format opportunities that we have and dot-com that we have a tremendous opportunity where we are and we don’t want to pull away from that at this time.
Understood thank you guys.
A quick question for Lauren.
Just on the gross margins again the 20 to 40 BPs for the second half going from plus-10 in 3Q implies an acceleration in 4Q.
Is just the CCS working through that and having that behind you in fourth quarter is that really the big swing factor or are there other things going on there? Thanks.
Yeah when you compared Q3 Q4 yes it was unique in Q3 that we had that CCS liquidation.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Let me add my congrats to Ken and all the best to you in your future endeavors.
Just had a couple questions.
Lauren we’ve talked a lot about the IMU pressure that you’re facing and you’ve been able to offset that through better inventory markdown management.
Is there any outlook that you can provide into next year on how that will play out? Are we kind of plateauing at a level of IMU pressure or should we expect the same level of increase in IMU pressure that you’ll have to offset next year? Any helpful insights there would be appreciated.
Well as we’ve said this year’s been a result of category and vendor mix so we’ll see how that plays out next year; but our focus is on controlling what we can control and that’s improving our flow getting those assortments as good as they can be and investing in technology as we’ve already talked about that allocation tool should help us.
The levers remain the same.
Our mission is to get the most out of what we can control.
Yeah the real focus for us is on productivity and we see the opportunity into the future based upon what we’re doing with investments and steps we’re taking to improve productivity of the three major resources that Lauren talked about in her presentation as opportunities to continue to improve gross margin and as we work on things like our new allocation system that should also help us in both productivity and the markdowns that we have.
You know when we hit the top of our game on apparel that would-- Apparel is another one.
That should be accretive also.
So there’s three things that we control that we think will help us improve there.
So if we were to assume that vendor and product mix does not change next year there’s a reasonable expectation that merch margins should be up based on all the things you just said? Yeah so we’ll talk a lot more about our expectations for next year in the spring.
Okay fair enough.
My second question is could you help us understand the comp impact in the third quarter from the push-out of those two key launches? Yeah we’re not going to peel that back.
It gets a little bit too finite to try to do that.
I think Lauren did a good job of putting October and November together which is really the way that you have to look at it.
Right and the LeBron 12 is now launching on the 1<sup>st</sup> of December so that should be an incremental benefit to the December comp year-over-year correct? We’ve got a lot of launches when we look at the launch calendar and we like the way the launches line up going into the holiday season.
Perfect.
All the best to you guys.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Hi thank you.
Good morning.
Ken congratulations and Dick congratulations as well.
My question is on the port disruptions.
It sounds like for most of the companies that we follow that Q4 is okay with regards to that; but when it comes to Q1 there might be a little bit more uncertainty.
With inventory being so tight on the balance sheet are you a little bit more concerned about what the port disruptions could mean going into 2015? Well we work with our supply chain and as appropriate we make decisions on how we route product into the U.S.
We’re confident that cooler heads will prevail and hopefully the slowdown or shutdowns are avoided; but our supply chain I think does a really good job of evaluating the situation and working with our vendors to route things so that we don’t face any shortages.
Okay thank you.
My second question is just with regards to performance running.
There was some commentary around the category that maybe sounded a little bit weaker with the exception of Brooks.
Can you expand on that a little bit more? I think the running silhouette is such a strong silhouette and sometimes the innovation if you will comes through the more technical brands like the Colors that Run campaign we did with Asics where that splash of colors was really vibrant and moved the needle with the consumer.
Right now the consumer is more on lifestyle running from a silhouette perspective and continues to like that product offering.
I think that the performance running and we’re seeing what that does in our Runners Point Group obviously it’s still an important piece of the business but Brooks was the standout on the technical side in our women’s business.
So the running silhouette is still strong and I know that we’ve shared before that the truth is most of the running shoes that are bought are not bought to really hit the roads or the track or the trail to run so it’s a lifestyle piece whether it’s a technical brand technical shoe or not.
We like the running category and feel comfortable where we’re at today.
Great thank you so much.
Yeah hi everyone and let me add my congratulations and good luck Ken.
Thanks Scott.
So just wanted to ask about pricing and maybe specifically pricing in basketball.
I think there’s been some growth in the retro pricing the LeBron on the new 12 that was launched a few weeks ago was the same as last year.
Do you expect to continue to benefit from pricing overall in the next year and how are some of those decisions made? Thanks.
Yeah I think that we have not seen the end of the pricing elevation.
We certainly think that as long as our vendors continue to bring excitement and innovation our consumers are more than ready and prepared to pay for that product.
We have a wide range of price points in our stores and they inch their way up in some of the key marquee products.
There is still some price increases going on and to this point our consumers have been willing to pay.
They think that the value for those marquee shoes in those higher price points is definitely there.
Okay thank you.
And then Timberland seems to be having a second life or a third life.
How significant if you could just remind us is boots in your fourth quarter and can that move the needle? Thanks.
Well our boot business is a small part of our overall business.
I mean it’s certainly important and our Timberland investments and Nike investments are paying off very well right now.
The needle moves based on our category and assortments and of the big ones boots are not quite as important to us but clearly a key piece headed into the fourth quarter.
Okay thanks and good luck.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations Ken and all the best to you Dick.
I’m curious - just on the remodels for Champs and Foot Locker are they completed at this point as they enter into the fourth quarter particularly for Champs at this point and any color about what you’re seeing - I know you’re not going to quantify it but just puts and takes in terms of what you’re seeing? I guess apparel is doing better there than the regular base.
Just any color around that as well please.
Yeah from a calendar year or fiscal year perspective we go into a bit of a quiet period for remodels now through the holidays obviously.
We’ll start back up in January with some projects but as we’ve said many times our goal is to have about 50% of the fleet touched by the end of 2017 and that’s our global fleet.
So we are seeing some benefits to the remodels from an apparel perspective.
Apparel penetration is better in our remodeled stores than our non-remodeled stores specifically in Champs so we believe that as the remodel program - and I think I mentioned that earlier - as the remodel program continues to roll out we will in fact see some improvements in our apparel business.
Okay.
Then on 602 just curious - I don’t know if you want to add any color about what you’re seeing there but I think previously you might have commented that you’re seeing very high conversion out of those stores.
I think it was a traffic issue.
Could you just maybe add any color about what you’re seeing or what’s been going on with 602 on that front? Yeah you called it exactly Chris.
Our conversion is high our traffic is improving but still not where we need it to be.
We’re doing some fantastic grassroots marketing.
We just hosted a 602 kilometer run down in Dallas and had great turnout on a less-than-ideal day for a road race but we really gained significant social impact from the social media impact of the run and the after-events.
So we open our 15<sup>th</sup> 602 today or tomorrow so then we’re done for this year; but as we get more stores and get them clustered in markets we expect the brand recognition to go up which will in fact help the traffic.
So again we’re optimistic about the brand.
When we get her across the threshold she likes what she finds.
We’re the place where she can go and get the head-to-toe look that works for her and that’s important to this customer.
Right okay.
Last question I have is just on the product pipeline in marquee basketball.
Besides Jordan retro and the LeBron are there any other shifts you see coming or does it line up pretty well? You’ve got some good product coming down you have higher price points it looks like that Jordan Retro 6 in those more traditional colors right on Black Friday looks like it could be really strong for you guys.
Just any color about what you see in the pipeline would be helpful thanks.
As I’ve said Chris we like the way the released shoes line up going into the holidays.
Obviously our Week of Greatness is a significant campaign for us.
We try to stretch what was a Black Friday impact through a week-plus and then when you look at the launch calendar and I know you all have access to launch calendars as you look at the launches that go out through the holidays we like the way things line up.
And for our business it even goes beyond the holidays with the December 25 shoes that the players wear and what we do after Christmas.
So we feel good about that and we feel good about the line-up that we’re seeing that goes into February too.
So from what we have visibility of it’s a strong calendar.
Okay sounds great.
All the best to you guys.
Happy holidays.
Thanks.
Okay thanks Chris.
Great thanks and I’d like to add my congratulations as well.
If I could just follow up on the 602 commentary the billion-dollar target you mentioned what does that imply for the ultimate store build-out for that concept and what’s the right way to be thinking about unit growth for that business on an annual basis? And then I guess the second piece of the question is more just on the competitive landscape in that category and how you see that ultimately evolving.
Thanks.
I think when you look at the build-out we will be thoughtful and somewhat methodical.
One of our competitors was very proud that they build their 100<sup>th</sup> store in their eighth year with the brand.
We should beat that quite handily based upon the success and what we’re seeing but we’re still going to do it in a thoughtful way.
As Dick said we’re looking at markets where we can be more concentrated.
We also feel we offer something very different from the competitors in the point that we have brands that a customer can put together that have their best product.
We offer as Lauren said head-to-toe with apparel and footwear and the best if you will of footwear and the best brands.
So we’re differentiated and if a person just wants one fit or one style the specialty stores some of the other competitors that’s what they offer.
We offer an assortment that a woman can’t get anywhere else and so we feel good about our positioning and we also feel good about this as Dick was just talking about and the customer has come back and said I really like this.
We just need to get more customers to know about it because once they know about it they come they buy and they buy a lot because in addition to having higher conversion it also has high average tickets.
And if she comes to us we can give her great customer service and help her get her fit right.
That’s not something everybody brings.
For sure.
Okay that’s helpful.
Just shifting gears to the Foot Action business nice acceleration in that business this quarter.
Were there specific product drivers that maybe helped that or is it just more representative of other changes you’re making within that banner? It’s a combination of both.
I think the mix that they found from an apparel perspective with the true core athletic brands and then some of the faster fashion brands from a lifestyle perspective have really benefited Foot Action.
We’re in our prototype phase of our rollout of remodels there and the early indications are very positive as well.
So I think it’s really a combination that they found that sort of faster lead lifestyle vendor mix as well as a focus on customer service and doing the right things in the store to hook things up and some really solid grassroots marketing around specific stores and specific events.
Okay thanks and good luck ahead.
Hi guys.
Good morning and I know these congratulations sound sort of obligatory and cliché but honestly Ken tremendous job and Dick really wish you the best of luck on the next step.
Thank you Eric.
So I guess if I could for either Ken or Dick on the product pipeline as it relates to basketball I know you guys feel really good about sort of the positioning into holiday but as we kind of step back bigger picture how do you balance working with the vendors in terms of the price point the escalation there sort of what is the right level and then maybe even from a unit perspective making sure that these launches aren’t getting kind of flooding the market with new product.
Clearly the demand is there as it stands now but how do you think about balancing that not just in holiday but really on a go-forward basis? Well you know I think it’s not just balancing it in basketball Eric.
It’s balancing it across categories as well.
I think that certainly we see some price escalation on the marquee product that I talked to earlier but we’ve also got some great product in lifestyle running that may be the shoe of choice for the consumer on that given day whether it be the ZX Flux the Roshe - I mean those are also very fashion-right and desirable shoes for our consumers.
So we work--I think our teams do a great job working with the vendors in terms of addressing price points elevating where we can making sure that we’ve got the right price-value relationship making sure that there’s innovation in the product whether it be color whether it be technology whether it be taking some older shoes and contemporizing them for today’s consumer.
I mean that’s the New Balance reference that I made before.
We talk a lot about basketball but I just have to keep stressing how important the running business is as well especially outside of the U.S.
but even in the U.S.
with the comp gain we had.
So our consumer moves fairly quickly and while they love their basketball sneakers without a doubt they may feel like slipping on a running shoe for this occasion and that’s where I think the strength of our assortment and our vendor mix really comes through.
Okay fair enough.
If I could switch a little bit to the apparel business is there any chance that the vendors are somewhat limiting the branded component of that business? Clearly it’s shifted away from licensed to branded.
Women’s clearly is resonating quite well because it seems to be an underserved sort of distribution for women’s apparel there.
But as you think about the brands and they’re trying to segment the market is there any limitation of what they can sort of put through the Foot Locker banners or is it just literally the timing and getting to that stage? Yeah I don’t see Eric that we’ve got any limitations.
I think that it’s more timing and our decision-making process on when to move from silhouette or style or assortment piece.
So it’s we’ve just got to get our decision-making and their assortment presentations lined up together so there is no limitations.
I think that from a segmentation point of view they understand that we sell premium footwear and we want to hook up the right premium apparel and accessories with that.
So I think as I’ve said we’re getting better but we still have work to do on apparel.
Okay and just lastly capital allocation - obviously a tremendous job in terms of returning value to shareholders in dividends and buybacks.
As you think about the international opportunity is there--again without commenting specifically but other things in play where you think maybe just not going organic that there are some other assets potentially in play.
I guess the question are there some other things that we think about M&amp;A potentially in the future as a-- Yeah Eric we constantly look at opportunities.
We obviously--the Runners Point was a very interesting very good transaction that Dick and Lauren led and it has been accretive since the day we bought it.
But we also look at smaller things.
We went into the Czech Republic we bought a nine-store chain there that helped us establish a position.
So we’re looking at opportunities in Europe that will allow us to position ourselves properly in each of the markets that we’re in which is just about all in western and central Europe.
So if we see the right opportunity but we also want to make sure that it’s a positive opportunity and I think from what you’ve seen when we’ve done something it’s been a positive opportunity and we haven’t done something that is going to create a problem.
Absolutely.
Thanks guys.
Best of luck.
Morning.
Thanks for taking my question and Dick congrats on your new role and Ken best of luck in any and all next endeavors that you have.
I wanted to just ask you guys about the promotional environment.
One of your competitors had an uptick in their promotions this season following some excess inventory in some Nike product and then I also wanted to see if you guys had any view on the increase in apparel that we’re seeing in Nike and Under Armour at Macy’s as we head into holidays and just sort of what your outlook is in both footwear and apparel--in athletic footwear and apparel in the malls and if you’re seeing any uptick in competitive promotional activity.
Thanks.
Well we monitor the marketplace all the time Robby and I think the basic premise of our business model is that we sell premium products.
I think that our vendors do a really good job of segmenting those products and making the right distribution calls in the right channels so we have markdowns in the store.
Some of those are things that we bought too much of didn’t move as fast as we wanted it to - whatever.
So it’s not that we don’t have promotional markdowns but again based on the strength of our business in the premium end I feel comfortable with where our promotional cadence is and obviously that’s something that we evaluate on a daily-weekly basis.
In terms of the mix of apparel that’s going into Macy’s we have seen some expansion and some extensions.
They do apparel different than we do.
They can dedicate a lot more space to apparel so I think that our team is doing a better job of picking the sharp points and making sure that we get the right product.
So it’s not about more for us it’s about more of the right stuff for us.
Yeah we don’t have our head in the sands and where appropriate we’re taking pricing action; but we got the sales increases that we got with lower markdowns than last year as Lauren said and part of it is the way we present the service the level of assortment part of it is the exclusivity that we have on products and we will continue to work on that.
But it’s one of the reasons why we’re being more thoughtful as we expand the apparel is we are a premium house and we will have a strong Black Friday and we won’t have all the promotions that some of the other people do.
We have a different strategy than some of our competitors.
They get into situations that may cause them to have some pricing issues.
We work hard having tight inventory control having tight assortment control making sure we work closely with the vendors to try to minimize that impact.
That sounds great.
Thanks so much guys.
Okay Operator we have time for one more call or one question rather.
Hey guys good morning and let me add my congratulations Dick and Ken.
Lauren if I could just ask for a little bit of detail for our model on the gross margins here because I think it will be important.
In the past on the kind of comp that you just did we’ve seen somewhere to the tune of 70 to 80 basis points of leverage on the buying and occupancy line in the gross margin.
I mean is it directionally wrong to think that that’s where you ended up this quarter with a similar comp and if that extends going forward it looks like you’d be able to give up anywhere from 30 to 50 basis points on the merchandise margin to get to your guidance for the year.
Is there any way that at a high level directionally you would bless that kind of thinking? We guided to 20 to 40 basis points.
Yeah Michael as Lauren went through there are a lot of puts and takes to get to where we came out.
We continue to see those into the future that will be on the positive side so-- We get good leverage on the fixed Michael but going back 70 to 80 would be going back a ways.
Okay.
If I could just talk about Europe then for a minute obviously you guys brought up the segmentation.
I think we talked about that a little bit in the quarter Lauren.
Where are you because obviously the segmentation you did between Foot Locker and Champs and Foot Action in 2010 has driven a lot of good results here.
Can you tell us what we’re going to be looking at over the next few quarters as you guys start to put a segmentation strategy in play in Europe and then as we’ve talked about in the past Europe has traditionally been able to achieve operating margins that are above the U.S.
Can you talk about where that business is today and does that have a chance to go back above the U.S.
as you guys start to put that strategy in play? Yeah from a segmentation point of view I think we talked about it either last quarter or the quarter before we will span the gamut from Sidestep being more fashion-forward so connect that a bit if you would with Foot Action except there’s no apparel.
Foot Locker will sort of be in the middle - sport fashion leisure athletic casual driven and then Runners Point will be out on the performance--you know more on the performance end not that they won’t have lifestyle running options as well and a little bit of apparel for the technical runner.
So we’re through Phase 1 of that - we’ve got the Runners Point stores in Germany situated the way that we want.
They’re working to change out the assortment making it a better his-and-hers sort of environment with men’s on one side women’s on the other.
So all of the work is in process with Runners Point.
Foot Locker is well established with their assortment in their key customers target customers in Germany and the next step is to get Sidestep positioned properly in Germany.
Once we feel like we’ve got the model right in Germany we’ll look at testing that model across the border and outside of Germany to see where it can roll out.
We have a lot of premises.
We believe that Runners Point may be more successful in the north than the south.
We think that Sidestep could have a better future in the south than the north so we’ll have to play the testing game a bit to figure out exactly what the rollout looks like.
But we’re confident that the three of them can coexist very similar to the positioning of Foot Locker Foot Action and Champs from the male perspective.
Obviously Foot Locker does a lot of women’s footwear business and a lot of kids footwear business in Europe and we throw in the KFLs that we’re testing and we feel like we’ve got a great portfolio to roll out over the future.
In terms of the profitability Europe is definitely profitable - highly profitable - for us and we believe that it will continue to be and continue to gain some leverage as we go forward.
And Michael we’re riveted on our productivity no matter where we operate and there’s nothing structurally that doesn’t let Europe be as productive and gain in productivity from the great segmentation that Dick just described.
Right okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you very much.
Thank you all.
Thanks again for your participation on today’s call.
We look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9:00 am on Friday March 6 following the release of our fourth quarter and full year earnings earlier that morning.
Thanks again and happy holidays.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Foot Locker’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results for 2014.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management’s current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company’s press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc’s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today’s release it is available on the internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Mr.
John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may begin sir.
Thank you Brandon and good morning everyone.
I’d like to welcome you to Foot Locker Inc.’s fourth quarter and 2014 full year earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
As noted in this morning’s press release we reported GAAP net income of $146 million in the fourth quarter 21% more than the $121 million that the Company earned in the fourth quarter of last year.
On a per-share basis we earned $1.01 this year on a GAAP basis compared to $0.81 in the same period a year ago a 25% increase.
For the full year we topped $0.5 billion in net income for the first time in our history as an athletic company reaching a total of $520 million.
This represents a 21% increase over the $429 million that the Company earned in 2013.
Earnings per share improved 25% to $3.56 from $2.85 per share.
As noted in our release we had a one-time gain from the sale of a property as well as the write down of the trademark.
Excluding these items fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS was an even $1 a 22% increase over the $0.82 a share we earned on the non-GAAP basis last year.
A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results is included in our press release and except as otherwise indicated the numbers mentioned during our remarks this morning will be based on the non-GAAP results.
With me this morning are Dick Johnson President and Chief Executive Officer; and Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Lauren will lead up our call with a detailed look at our fourth quarter financial performance followed by Dick who will provide insight into some of the merchandise and industry trends that led to our strong results.
Lauren will wrap up our prepared remarks with an overview of our annual and quarterly expectations for 2015.
As we announced last month we will be hosting an Investor Meeting here in our New York headquarter on March 16th at 2 PM during which we will describe our long-term strategic priorities for growth and update our financial goals.
Therefore during today’s question-and-answer period we ask that you focus your questions on our fourth quarter results and near term outlook for 2015.
Lauren? Thank you John and good morning to you all.
We really appreciate you’re joining us this morning as we review our 2014 results and take a first look at 2015.
What better place to start than describing our strong fourth quarter results than with our comparable sales gain of 10.2%.
This is an enormous credit to our merchants and operations team that we were able to drive such positive and as you’ll hear broad based and consistent results.
The direct-to-customer segment led the way as it has all year with a 21.9% sales gain for the quarter.
Within the segment our Eastbay banner was up low double-digits while our U.S.
store banner dot-com businesses were collectively up over 30%.
For the year our direct business had a comparable sales gain of 17.8% with Eastbay up mid-single digits while store banner dot-com sales were up almost 40%.
The store segment posted a strong 8.5% comparable sales gain for the quarter.
Several U.S.
banners produced double-digit gains led by Foot Action and Foot Locker with increases in the teens followed by low double-digit gains in kids Foot Locker and yes Lady Foot Locker.
The gain at Lady Foot Locker was its third consecutive quarterly increase and its first double-digit gain in several years.
To quote Ken’s reaction hoorah.
Champs Sports was up mid-single digits as were our Europe business is.
Elsewhere internationally Foot Locker Asia Pacific was up low double digits while Foot Locker Canada was up high single-digits.
So very strong comparable sales gains across the board by channel geography and gender.
A 10.2% comparable sales gain which is calculated on a constant currency basis was partially offset by FX and other factors to bring our total sales gain to a still very healthy 6.7% in the quarter.
Almost all of the 350 basis point difference between our comp gain and the total sales increase was attributable to the stronger U.S.
dollar in Q4 this year compared to last year with the lack of CCS sales this year and a net 50 store count reduction by the end of the quarter smaller contributing factors.
Our monthly comp cadence was steady through the quarter.
We finished November with a low double-digit comp gain driven in part by strong product supporting our Week of Greatness marketing campaign.
The Week of Greatness is so great in fact it now extends a more than a week.
And we have successfully exported it to the other Foot Locker banners around the globe.
Our November performance was followed by a high single digit gain in December and another low double-digit gain in January.
Although I'll say more about 2015 towards the end of our remarks I'll mention now that we continue to have solid topline momentum having posted a mid-single digit comparable sales gain in February 2015 as well.
Moving down the P&amp;L to gross margin we produced a 40 basis point improvement to 32.9% of sales from 32.5%.
It has been the case all year the primary driver with leveraging our relatively fixed occupancy and buyer salary expenses in which we benefited 60 basis points.
Largely by lowering our markdown rate we offset ongoing initial markup pressure and produced a slight improvement in merchandised margin on a constant currency basis while also maintaining our inventory ageing standards.
However between FX and some other small margin elements such as shipping overall gross margin netted to a 40 basis points gain.
Our team did an excellent job managing expenses in the quarter as our selling general and administrative expense rate decreased to 19.6% of sales from 20.4% of sales last year.
For the full year our SG&amp;A expense rate improved by 50 basis points from 20.4% to 19.9% the first time we have ever had an expense rate below 20%.
The biggest factor in our full year SG&amp;A performance was the increased productivity of our store associates.
We have invested in systems and training to ensure we have the right associates on the sales floor at the right time and that they are well prepared to provide excellent service to our customers.
As a result we experienced improvements across the Company in sales per payroll hour while maintaining a strong in-store service level.
Depreciation expense decreased this quarter to $33 million from $36 million partly due to the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar.
On a constant currency basis we expect depreciation to increase again next year as we sustained a strong level of investments in our stores digital capabilities and system technologies.
Our capital expenditures reached just over $200 million in 2014 on an accrual basis slightly below our most recent guidance.
FX played a role here too as spending in Europe translated into fewer U.S.
dollars but the larger factor was the timing of certain technology projects such as a new order management system for our digital business which has been extended into 2015.
Our earnings before interest and taxes reached a rate of 11.4% of sales better than our long range goal of 11%.
Our fourth quarter tax rate was 34.8% below our expected run rate of 36.5% due largely to the acceleration of statutes of limitations on foreign tax positions the Company had taken in prior year.
Last year’s rate of 33% was particularly low due to the effect of tax planning initiatives that received a boost from a favorable ruling on a foreign tax position during the quarter.
Taken all together it was another record quarter and another record year.
Net income in the quarter of $144 million an even $1 per share was 18% higher than last year and represented the first time in our history that we produced two separate quarters of at least $1 per share an earnings having also earned $1.11 in the first quarter.
The net impact of FX on earnings in the quarter was as forecasted on our previous call about $0.02 per share.
The effect on the bottom-line would have been $0.03 but we had a one-time financial hedge in place to minimize the effect of a stronger dollar.
For the full year net income was $522 million a 21% increase.
Our net income margin was 7.3% in 2014 making it the third of our long range goals that we have surpassed along with EBIT margin and a 15% return on invested capital.
Clearly it was an outstanding performance by the entire team at Foot Locker that enabled us to achieve these significant milestones.
Full year EPS was $3.58 compared to $2.87 last year.
The 25% improvement was 4% higher than the increase in net income reflecting the significant return of cash to shareholders we executed throughout the year via our share repurchase program.
For the quarter we repurchased a total of 2.34 million shares for approximately $131 million bringing our full year total to 5.9 million shares at a cost of $305 million.
We also returned $127 million of cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends during 2014 which brought our total return to shareholders for the year to $432 million more than 80% of net income.
As we announced in February our Board both increased our quarterly dividend payout rate to $0.25 per share and authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program.
These initiatives demonstrate that we have enhanced returns to shareholders as our underlying business momentum has continued to build.
Before I hand it over to Dick to go over the merchandize highlights let me touch on inventory.
At actual FX rates inventory increased $30 million or 2.5% less than half of our 6.7% sales increase.
Using constant currencies inventory was up 6.6% although higher than our standard when compared to our 10.2% comparable sales gain.
However we deliberately brought in a significant amount of inventory early before year end to ensure that we avoided any major West Coast port delay issues and we're well positioned particularly for NBA All-Star events.
That inventory strategy helped support the solid sales gain in February I mentioned before.
Let me now turn the call over to Dick.
Thanks Lauren and good morning everyone.
Wow what a great list of accomplishments that you just ran through.
And for every high level achievement that you mentioned there were so many smaller individual and team wins that contributed to our success.
I can't thank the team at Foot Locker Incorporated enough for all of their efforts.
Record breaking results such as we delivered in 2014 could not have been produced without excellent leadership team work and customer service across every part of our Company.
We've now reached 20 consecutive quarters of significant sales and profit growth and as Lauren mentioned we're off to a good start in quarter 21.
The excitement around the NBA All-Star game has given our business a nice boost to begin the year.
I should call out here the diligent work of our logistics team.
We partnered very effectively with our vendors to ensure a minimum of delivery delays both in Q4 and in the lead up to the All-Star game last month related to the West Coast port slowdown.
Yes there was some impact and it will take some time to get fully back on schedule but we do not expect the backlog to have a material impact on our business either in Q1 or the full year.
Let's take a look now at the key drivers of our performance in our fourth quarter.
From a family of business perspective footwear was once again the leader with comparable sales gain in the teens while apparel was down low single-digits.
Basketball and running footwear were both up double-digits with strong gains in both categories in all major regions.
Starting with basketball well I know this is the same story you've heard me tell all year but brand Jordan was very strong across all of our banners and geographies.
The retro business continued to build momentum the sportswear collection performed very well and the Jordan player shoes also saw increases.
Signature basketball was also very strong in the quarter.
Particularly encouraging was the emergence of Kyrie Irving with Nike whose new signature shoe sold very well.
At the same time that the shoes of the more established Nike players LeBron Kobe and KD also continued to perform at a high level.
The ClutchFit shoe from Under Armour had solid results in the fourth quarter and we're excited about the early performance of the Seth Curry signature shoe so far in Q1.
With Lillard Rose and Wall Adidas also has a promising position in signature basketball.
As I believe we have continually demonstrated strength in one category does not preclude strength in another and as strong as basketball was in the quarter running was even stronger.
The gains were driven by lifestyle running silhouettes including the Roshe Huarache and various elements of the Max Air platform from Nike.
Other brands are performing well too.
In particular Adidas with its popular Zed-X Flux shoe Puma New Balance and Asics also are developing encouraging lifestyle running footwear offerings.
Speaking of lifestyle the shift towards boots as a fashion item led by Timberland and Nike contributed significantly to strong Q4 results in casual footwear.
As I mentioned briefly before apparel was more challenging for us as it has been all year.
We had good results in several banners but the two banners with the highest apparel penetration Champs Sports and Foot Locker Europe still face significant challenges.
In the U.S.
apparel at Foot Locker was up just shy of double-digits while Foot Action apparel sales were up in the teens.
Our ongoing banner differentiation efforts have positioned these two banners well to attract very unique customers.
With the Foot Locker customer preferring a performance inspired look put the Foot Action customers squarely in the lifestyle camp.
The team at Foot Action has done an excellent job in mixing lifestyle items from the major athletic brands alongside more niche brands such as Asphalt Yacht Club American Stitch and Fair Play.
That said margins in apparel continue to trail footwear.
So we have a lot of opportunity to get even stronger in this part of our business.
Lady Foot Locker also had an excellent apparel gain well into the double-digits with a higher margin rate as well.
We are successfully transitioning our women's apparel mix to reflect a more premium offering from our key vendor partners such as Nike Under Armour and Adidas.
There is still work in progress but we feel very well aligned with our vendors on a shared strategy of emphasizing and growing the women's athletic apparel business.
On the flip side apparel sales decreased double-digits in Foot Locker Europe with the downtrends in certain branded lifestyle programs as well as private label continue to challenge us.
While sales were down the European business does retain some of the highest apparel margins in the company.
Apparel sales were down mid-single digits at Champs Sports.
There were some bright spots led by fleece tops and bottoms which performed very well at good margins.
However these could not offset the continued decline in licensed apparel and some of the same lifestyle programs that challenge Foot Locker Europe.
We continue to work with our vendor partners to develop new or updated styles that we believe will begin to rebuild the apparel businesses at both Champs Sports and Foot Locker Europe in 2015.
Turning to real-estate we ended the year with 3 423 owned stores a decrease of 51 from the end of the third quarter and 50 beginning of the year.
The decrease is larger than the 25 stores we mentioned on the third quarter call as we had the opportunity to closer several more underperforming stores than previously anticipated the majority of which were Lady Foot Locker doors.
Despite the decreased store count gross square footage ended the year slightly higher than a year ago.
The stores we are opening tend to be larger than the stores we are closing.
We also typically require extra space when we add our various vendor shopping shops and remodeled stores.
These real-estate projects continue to produce positive results for our business hence our announcement last month of our $220 million capital spending program for 2015.
Between these exciting fresh store environments and powerful marketing programs we were successful in driving an increase in traffic during the quarter.
We continue to see higher average selling prices with footwear units increasing as well.
All in all it was a very strong year for Foot Locker.
Lauren mentioned three of our long range goals that we have already reached ROIC EBIT margin and net income margin.
We have made good progress towards other key objectives sales sales per square foot and inventory turns.
Over the past few years we have developed into a high performance Company that has reached record heights of financial and operational success.
The teamwork innovation and passion that I see in our people have been incredible.
I want to again thank the entire team of associates for their outstanding accomplishments.
Looking ahead we intend to seize our opportunities to once again raise the bar and achieve our next set of financial milestones which the senior management team and I look forward to sharing with you on March 16th in New York.
For now let me turn the call back over to Lauren to give you some specific guidance on 2015.
Thanks Dick.
We have indeed built a good deal of momentum in our business overall.
So we do not see that fundamentally changing in the near term.
We have opportunities to grow the base business this year domestically and internationally.
On the other hand the stronger dollar is expected to be a significant headwind to our reported results in 2015.
That said I'm happy to be in a position to repeat the high level of guidance for 2015 that we've given in recent years.
We believe we can deliver a mid-single digit comparable sales gain and a double-digit percentage earnings per share increase this year.
However the strong U.S dollar means that a double digit increase in 2015 will be more tempered in the 20% plus gains of recent years.
If exchanges rate stay around where they are now our 2015 EPS results will be $0.16 to $0.18 lower than they would have been at 2014 exchange rates.
The remainder of my remarks on FX will also assume that exchanges rate stay close to where they are now with the euro around $1.10 and the Canadian and Australian dollars around $0.80.
For sales we expect the weaker foreign currencies will mean that our mid-single digit comparable sales gain would translate into a low single digit total sales increase.
For merchandise margin the offsetting dynamics of lower initial markup and markdowns will likely continue in 2015.
On a constant currency basis we believe we can achieve slightly higher merchandise margins.
The fact that our international divisions have a higher gross margin rate than our domestic divisions means that our overall rate will be pressured down due to FX.
Although we should continue to lever our fixed buying and occupancy cost the net impact of all these factors is that we expect gross margin to be flat to up slightly in 2015.
On the other hand we believe SG&amp;A expense will benefit from the weaker exchange rate.
While international divisions have higher than average gross margins they also have higher SG&amp;A expenses.
In a mid-single digit comp for the Company overall we should expect to achieve an SG&amp;A rate improvement of 50 to 60 basis points.
Depreciation and amortization expense benefited from some one-time adjustments in 2014 to land at $139 million.
With our $220 million capital expenditure program approved for 2015 we expect depreciation expense to increase to a range of $150 million to $155 million.
In the capital program for this year we plan to open just over 100 stores and close about 80.
The new stores will be concentrated in kids Europe and 602.
We'll provide more detail on store opening plans on the 16th.
In the mean time we believe we can continue to improve the productivity of our existing square footage through the investments we are making in our store fleet.
We are planning interest expense to be fairly flat to this year's $5 million and we are continuing to plan our effective tax rate at 36.5% in 2015.
Our guidance of a double digit percentage increase in earnings per share also assumes a lower share count based on the continued execution of our new $1 billion share repurchase program.
There are no really big variances by quarter to the guidance I just gave you.
We are planning mid-single digit comp gains in each quarter.
That said the FX impact on sales margin and SG&amp;A are naturally greater in quarters with lower sales volume.
Thus the second quarter which saw that euro still pushing $1.40 last year it will be especially difficult to achieve a double digit EPS increase this year.
Our current expectation is the mid-single digit percentage EPS increase in Q2.
Of course difficult FX comparisons ease as we get into the back half of 2015 and especially in Q4.
I think that covers the highlights of 2015.
So I'll end there and ask Brandon to open up the call to your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And from Citigroup we have Kate McShane on the line.
Please go ahead.
This is Corinna Van der Ghinst on for Kate.
I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit more about the promotional environment that you saw across the competitive landscape in Q4 and how that might have impacted your business during the quarter.
And then just as a follow-up to your comments on the inventory buildup ahead of the port disruption you mentioned that you're not expecting a material impact on your results but how do you think the port disruptions might be impacting the selling environment across the industry in the first half? Yes from a promotional point of view -- our focus is really on premium footwear and apparel.
So we know what our cadence is.
As Lauren talked about our markdowns were lower.
So going into the holiday period our promotional cadence was where needed to be to manage our inventory and to drive sales.
So we finished up with our inventory on standards better than standards and with the markdown down.
So we worry about what we have to do from a selling point of view.
The cadence around the industry we monitor.
We know what goes on.
But again the kids are coming to us for innovation exciting new products and they're willing to pay for those.
As far as the inventory buildup and the port delay again our team did a tremendous job of getting out in front of it so that we were positioned going into Q4? We gave a little bit of relief on our ending inventory number as Lauren talked about to make sure that we are positioned going into February and we continue to monitor it.
Obviously there is catch up going on.
As we talked about there will be a while while everything gets reset but we feel good about where we fit in the industry.
Okay great.
And then just as a quick follow-up do you have any guidance on how many shop-in-shop rollouts you're planning to do this year across the Fly Zone Kick Zone Jordan 23 et cetera? Yes we’ll go into a lot more detail on that when we talk on the 16th but those would be part of remodel programs and new store openings and our remods will be at a level fairly consistent with what we experienced and -- what we’ve accomplished in 2014.
From UBS we have Michael Binetti on line.
Please go ahead.
So can you talk a little bit about -- and I apologize if I missed this -- can you talk about what ASP was versus traffic in the fourth quarter? And then maybe just how that dynamic looks directionally as we think about 2015? ASP is continued strong as they have been all year but traffic was up slightly in the quarter very strong traffic in international divisions.
In the U.S.
it was a bit more mixed with some divisions up slightly and some divisions down slightly.
And directionally in 2015 Lauren? We see ASP direction to change and traffic we continue to drive in excess of them all we believe because very strong product offering great marketing efforts and that’s the reason why we’re making sure that we keep those store environments so fresh and exciting.
That helps with the traffic.
And vendors continue to bring innovative and fresh product and the customers clearly are responding positively to that.
So I agree with Lauren.
I think ASPs will continue to be where they are at or up slightly.
So I guess the where I was going with that is that you guys were thinking ahead on the gross margin for next year here a little bit and I know you guys tested some new allocation software last year and you commented that that would further help merchandised margins with improved markdown rates.
But you also just commented on ongoing IMU pressure.
You've had a lot of pricing power here that's been helping on ASPs and the products are obviously resonating.
I'm curious how far we should look ahead to IMU continuing to be a pressure considering the consumer seems to be accepting these price increases? Yes again I am new to -- we saw this year that pressure was really driven by mix of vendor offering and mix of category.
So it wasn’t about the price we paid for the product.
I would see IMU tempering somewhat that delta year-over-year but we still think that’s a factor.
So we control what we can control.
We worked very closely with the vendors to improve product flow that helped lift the margins and as you pointed out we’re in the midst of the installation of the allocation system which will help us get that much smarter getting the right product to the right place therefore supporting lower markdowns from a full price selling.
And using more cross channel initiatives as well.
So our inventory is visible to all of our customers regardless of where they are shopping which gives the inventory at the end more value and allows us to use fewer markdowns.
And when we really are at a top of our game in parallel that should help us well but we’ve got what we described -- we thinks that on a constant currency basis merchandise margins improved slightly in ’15.
We lever the fixed but we’ve got to navigate the FX which when you factor that in it means that we’re going to be flat to up slightly when it's all finished.
From Janney Capital Markets we have Eric Tracy on the line.
Please go ahead.
If I could go to DTC just continued strength particularly in the banners maybe just a bit of an update there in terms of where you feel like that channel has evolved what still needs to be done in terms of sort of infrastructure build out to support and any just sort of updated thoughts around the consumer migration that you all see? Well I’ll with the consumer Eric we see multichannel consumer work more than a single channel consumer.
So while we drive excitement in the stores we also have great programs online that attract the consumer.
We want them to be able shop our stores and our banners wherever they are whenever they are.
So we’ve been in the digital or dot-com Internet business for a long long time.
So the infrastructure has been in place.
We continue to make improvements.
Lauren mentioned an order management system that we'll put in place starting in 2015 just to make it a little bit more effective on the back end to make it a little more streamlined for the customer on the front end.
But we continue to make investments both in the stores and in the digital space to make it more clear for the customer that wherever they are whenever they want to shop they have access to our banners and to our product.
And as you think about as a follow-up on that in terms of the vendors Nike coming out with their sneaker app again just that balance of working with the vendors to segment the product across the space.
Any issues challenges as this channel evolves? No I think we have a great relationship with our vendors.
The strength that we to the table is that our consumer can see the best of all the vendors.
We are able to create meaningful assortments across vendor brands and I think that we’re going to both co-exist in the space obviously but our marketing programs drive consumers to our sites the product attract some to our sites and our stores and I think that it will continue to drive success in a multichannel environment.
And then just lastly if I could as it relates to Europe on a constant currency basis.
So beyond FX the assumptions being made for ‘15 it sounds like traffic is holding up pretty well but maybe just speak to again the underlying demand within Europe that you guys see? We continue to see the recovery.
The economic recovery is a little bit bumpy in Europe different north and south different country to country.
But we're in 19 different countries and the sneaker culture continues to be strong.
The running silhouette is king there but the team over in Europe is doing a great job of making basketball relevant to that consumer.
Our vendor partners are strong in Europe as well.
As called out in previous calls that the two real emerging markets from a sales perspective are the U.S.
and Western Europe.
So we’re positioned well.
We continue to invest there.
Lauren talked about the store openings being driven there and the team over there is also doing a nice job with their digital efforts.
So we feel good about where we're at in Europe.
From Susquehanna Financial we have Chris Svezia.
Please go ahead.
So I guess first just on apparel.
I guess fourth quarter better than maybe the trend line we’ve seen throughout the year but still some work to do.
So your thoughts about where the opportunity is maybe where the issue is private label versus branded? What can you do really to start to see some improving trend line given the drag it's been across the business? And I’m just curious in Champs remodeled stores was there a dramatic difference versus those Champs stores that were not remodeled on apparel? We see a difference in remodeled stores absolutely.
I think we talked about it in the comments earlier Chris that in Europe it’s a little bit of case of some branded assortment items that have not resonated as well with the consumer along with some private label hiccups at Champs.
There are some branded issues with a couple of programs and then the license side of the business at Champs is on a pretty steady decline.
So it’s a matter of giving those things balance working with the brands to make sure that we’ve got strong assortments.
Part of the remodel program is to do a better job of story-telling from head to toe and across the brand.
So the remodels a small percentage we’re not done with the remodel program by any by any stretch of the imagination.
So I think that the work that we’ve seen done at Foot Locker and the things that they’ve done at Foot Action tell us that there are some upsides and the work that the team had Lady Foot Locker and 602 is doing on the apparel front tell us that we can get there.
It’s just the two banners that have the highest penetration Champs in Foot Locker Europe have struggled a bit.
Okay.
I don't know if you’ll break this out but in your assumption your mid-single- digit comp on the year you’re not really assuming the apparel business turns? I assume you’re still a negative number? We are not breaking up that guidance of that product category but rest assured we're working very hard on apparel.
Okay fair enough.
Just last two things here.
One just on the remodels for Foot Locker and Champs I think you’re at 30% on Champs 20% on Foot Locker.
Any thoughts about what that looks like this year? You continue to remodel those any percentages? And Lady 602 are you at a point now where you can more aggressively roll that out or is that something you’ll touch more on on the 16th? We’ll talk more about 602 and our women’s business in totality on the 16th but status of remods we ended the year with Foot Locker at about 20% through its remod and Champs about 25%.
And we are at the same remod level in ‘15 and ‘14 which is what the plan is they would both end up Foot Locker and Champs in the low 30% completion at the end of ‘15 on remod.
From Sterne Agee we have Sam Poser online.
Please go ahead.
I just want some clarification.
You said that you expect reported numbers the D&amp;A to be 150 million.
Is that correct or can you just clarify that for me? Yes we should be about 150 to 155 in reported next year.
And then even with that you are expecting reported -- are you expecting your reported currency affected earnings to be up double-digits as well correct? Yes.
But as I described the double-digits is because of FX more tempered than what we finished during the last few years which has been double-digits 20 something increase.
We are expecting something more tempered than that because we have got FX pressure about $0.16 to $0.18.
And then as far as the product mix goes and where you are with the allocation where are you Dick with allocation system and the implementation there? And where are you with the implementation of the allocation system right now? And when do you think -- when do you expect that to be completely in place? Well Phase I of the implementation is ongoing across the U.S.
divisions.
Europe was our leader in that and has most of their divisions up and they will be a 100% onboard with the allocation system later this quarter.
The U.S.
will that a bit but we'll also be -- by the midpoint of year we'll have all of their departments on the allocation system and that will be Phase I.
Phase II will be piloted in Q4.
But we really don’t -- we don’t really warp-up until 2016 before we get to the last division the last product category.
So then just to understand it you should steadily get some benefit from this as it rolls in but arguably as it gains its own history it does all the stuff.
Next year will be -- this year will be good next year will be better and ’17 would be full effect? You are absolutely right that we continue to get benefit for multiple periods.
Because as you described it is a learning system.
The more it learns the better.
There are also humans running it.
So the more we learn the better.
But as we have an opportunity then to apply to learnings to our purchases -- purchase many months in advance we'll start to apply those learnings to the purchases and we'll get benefit.
So it’s a multi-year build.
And then lastly what is the share count that you are assuming? The average share count for the full year that you are assuming in the guidance? I am not going to go that far but as we said with executing the share repurchase program the new $1 billion program we expect average share count to decline in the year.
Would you expect it to decline more than it did last year on a percentage basis? I can’t do that for you.
It will depend on multiple factors.
From Bank of America we have Robby Ohmes online.
Please go ahead.
Just quarter couple of quick ones one is just a follow-up on Michael Binetti's ASP question.
Can you give us color on -- was the ASP strength in the fourth quarter was it across basketball and running? Was it sort of a similar type of average selling price or was one way ahead of the other? We saw increases across our footwork categories Robby.
So was basketball lot stronger than running or was running ASPs up similarly to basketball? They were both up.
Okay.
And then the technical running business.
So I think you called out the casual running business but any commentary on the health of the technical running business the three and lunar and I think you mentioned A6 getting into casual running but how about their technical running business? How is the outlook for that in 2015? It varies banner-by-banner for us of course Robby.
I think when you look at Brooks and A6 and some of the platforms that you mentioned from Nike and our women’s business there is still strength.
We have got certain number of doors that have good programs with all of those technical shoes in our Foot Locker banner both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
So we think that technical -- we think that the running silhouette continues to gain strength.
Whether the shoes are technical or lifestyle most of them don’t get run in anyway.
So the point is that the vendors continue to bring great looks and a silhouette that has meaning for our consumer.
And then last question I know you guys saw the Walmart and TJX announcements about wages.
Can you remind us where Foot Locker in wages and if we should expect any changes or pressures given what’s going on across retail? So our compensation for our store associates is base plus commission.
So they have the ability through their sales strengths to set their compensation.
But as a result the majority of our associates earn significantly more than minimum wage.
So we watch those developments very closely because we are committed to paying competitive wages but our associates certainly compensation dollar wise is important to them but there are also other things that they enjoy about working at Foot Locker not least of which is being in stores surrounded by sneakers which they have a personal passion for.
So the discount that they get on that product is also important to them.
But yes I would say we continue to watch that very closely and we'll remain competitive.
From Gilford Securities we have Bernard Sosnick on the line.
Please go ahead.
I'm wondering about eBay posting a pretty nice gain.
Is there something going on there that's invigorating that business? Well I think that as they manage -- as our team out in Warsaw manages our store dot com banner and the Eastbay banner there are puts and takes sometimes Bernie but they've done a really good job of communicating with that high school athlete which is really their target.
They've got great relationships with our vendor partners.
They published a really nice looking Adidas catalogue and a really nice looking Jordan catalogue.
They continue to use the catalogue – the Eastbay catalogue as a marketing tool.
I just think that the consumer really responded to some of the marketing efforts in Q4.
And could you flush out a little bit the reasons for success at Foot Action? I think the footwear sort of speaks for itself.
They've got a great assortment of footwear that really attracts the consumer but the thing that we really called out Bernie was their really good work around apparel where they've been able to take key lifestyle silhouettes from our major athletic vendors and blend them in with some of the faster fashion sort of vendors that that consumer that really shops Foot Action's after Asphalt Yacht Club American Stitch et cetera.
And they've got the ability to move a little bit quicker in adjusting to some of those styles.
So I think that they finally have a nice rhythm as it relates to that mix and obviously when you talk about things like Timberland boots becoming a fashion item Foot Action certainly benefits from that sort of mixture.
From Credit Suisse we have Seth Sigman on the line.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to follow-up on the Lady business and the double-digit comps that you're seeing there.
Is there a way to quantify if there's a benefit you're seeing from some of the store closings that you've done there? Or is there a benefit from maybe opening some bigger stores? I'm trying to dig in a little bit more on to that level -- that low double-digit comp that you're seeing and what's driving that improvement? It's a combination of a lot of things.
I think the merchandize assortment has improved.
They've done a nice job positioning apparel even in the smaller Lady Foot Locker stores.
They've shifted that consumer over a little bit in that base.
Clearly Lauren called out that we closed some underperforming stores.
So that will continue to benefit us.
The footwear mix is strong and obviously we've got the 15 602 doors that factor into that mix as well which are in fact a bit – bigger stores.
Is there a way to think about how big of a delta there was between your better performing Lady Foot Locker stores and then some of the ones that you closed? We haven’t really got into discussing how good the good are and bad the bad are.
So it's blended out to a double-digit comp gain for the quarter.
And then as we think about capital allocation it's been great to see the increase in buyback.
There's been a little bit of an evolution in the thought process it seems like.
How do you think about the right ratio or the right level of repurchase on an annual basis? I know you gave a three-year view with the authorization but what's the right way to think about the annual target there? It's not a formula.
We take into consideration what our capital plans are.
We describe those as 220 [ph] for next year.
We factor in other uses for the cash between that and the dividend; we're making sure that we've got really meaningful returns to the shareholders.
So I hope that helps you.
As John said earlier the amount of repurchases is driven by a lot of factors and Lauren just called out many of them.
So we don't have an annual target.
Okay understood.
And then just one more and I'll hop off.
But in terms of store growth it looks like you're going to be a net opener in 2015 for the first time in a while.
And I know we'll get a lot more color in a couple weeks but I'm just wondering are you accelerating the openings of some of the banners or are you just closing less of others? How should we be thinking about that at this point? We called out in the comments Seth that the openings are going to be around kids in Europe and then in 602.
So I think that our goal is always to close fewer quite honestly.
We'd prefer to get them productive and keep them open but when we have opportunistic chances to close stores we'll take those opportunities if it makes sense.
So I think that's regardless of net opener or not our square footage continues to increase based on some of the shop-in-shops that we talked about.
And the productivity of our square footage continues to increase which is really what drives the business.
From Jeffries we have Eddie Plank on the line.
Please go ahead.
I wonder if you guys could dig into the Runners Point Group a little bit more.
At this point what have you learned about that consumer? How does it affect your thinking about the growth opportunity there? And then as a second point how is their online business helping you guys to think about your own dot-com business in Europe? Thanks.
Well from a Runners Point perspective from a group perspective we're working on the consumer segmentation work that we've talked about in the past.
We've got the Runners Point stores now really to find there is all things running from lifestyle to performance.
So they have got men's and women's the assortments are there the high-touch selling is there the treadmills are to really create that running destination in the mall in the high streets of Germany right now.
Once we get that model proven and completed we will be ready to test that model outside of Germany.
The work is not quite as far along with the Sidestep banner.
That's a more lifestyle driven banner so as we look to position Sidestep Foot Locker and Runners Point in the same mall or the same high street in Europe we've got a little work to do around profiling the Sidestep assortments in a way that the store looks and figuring out exactly who their amused customer is and making sure that we speak to that consumer.
So I think we're making good progress.
Clearly the Runners Point is ahead from a segmentation point of view at this point.
From a dot-com perspective the Tredex business that's part of the Runners Point Group is helping them form the Foot Locker Europe team and we've got our center of dot-com business our center of excellence in Warsaw so we trying to share global best practices between the team that’s over in Europe and the team that's in Warsaw and I continue to see progress being made there as well.
From JPMorgan we have Matthew Boss on the line.
Please go ahead.
There's been a lot of debate lately about the athletic cycle what inning we're in.
I'm just curious what you guys are seeing in terms of lead indicators product pipeline.
And you talked about customer demand for the more premium price shoes.
But just in general what's the best way to think about -- not just here but also abroad -- the athletic cycle and the pipeline? Yes we continue to see good product in the pipeline.
I think Matthew the vendors continue to bring innovation whether it be technical innovation whether it be fabrications colors new platforms that they are operating on.
So we continue to see a pretty robust pipeline of product across the categories and around the geographies.
So I think it's somewhat of an athletic cycle but it's also a casualization cycle where people are very comfortable wearing sneakers these days.
And I got a lot of stares on the train when I've got my suit on with my sneakers but it doesn't bother me at all and our core consumers certainly are very comfortable wearing sneakers.
So there's ebbs and flows across categories that I expect we'll continue to see but I feel good about where the athletic trend is and certainly where the pipeline is.
Great.
And then on the margin side can you just talk about where the European margins stand today versus maybe prior peak? And more so how to think about the opportunity on a go-forward basis? The merchandise margins is your question or finished margins? As much detail as you're willing to provide.
Well okay.
Let's talk about in terms of finished margins which I -- my comment about that would be we have done just so much on productivity really across the geographies but margins no matter what part of the globe you're in are strong.
But historically our international margins finished have benefited from the fact that it's just less promotional in many of the European markets with legislated promotional periods.
So Europe countries recovering from trough periods and as Dick described that's been a little uneven.
So if that comes back opportunity to further increase those finished margins internationally.
And the initiatives that we're working on they apply across the geographies.
That doesn't matter what you're talking about.
So the allocation systems and the time and attendance system scheduling systems that we've put in all of those are global initiatives.
From Deutsche Bank we have Paul Trussell on the line.
Please go ahead.
There's already been a lot of focus on AUR on this call and I'll just try to ask in a bit of a different way.
You are seeing sneaker strength beyond the very highly priced premium Jordan and LeBron product.
You mentioned boots and other casual and running silhouettes.
Some of the younger hoopers like Steph and Kyrie are also seeing success.
Are you concerned at all that there will be a share shift towards some of these lower-priced -- relatively lower-priced products that could have a negative impact to your overall comp? Or is the unit volume from these assortments enough to make up for it? We know that our kid is going to wherever the coolest shoes are right? We certainly trade as you called out up at the higher end with the Jordan and the LeBron and some of those key sneakers but a lot of the business is also built on the LeBron Soldier for example which is not up at that high price point.
That's more in the Kyrie the Steph Curry sort of price range.
So I think we've got strength Paul across the range of price points and we see kids buying the Roshe's which are great casual sneakers.
They may have two or three pairs because of the colors that are there and what they want to hook up with.
And the same with the Zed-X Flux from Adi not a high end basketball sort of price point but certainly we do volume because the shoe is so flexible for the kid to wear in multiple iterations.
So I think we continue to see a good strong mix of price points.
And I think we've worked very hard to make sure that we have a strong offering across the price points.
And then just touching on margins obviously there's a lot of noise regarding FX this year.
But just in general taking a step back how should we think about the comp thresholds to leverage fixed occupancy and expenses on a go-forward basis? Has that changed at all as we look back over the past year or two? No we are still able to lever at low single digits and part of that is making sure that you really plan your expenses tightly in line with sales and you react to ups and downs and I think as we demonstrated last year with where we finished with our margins and our SG&amp;A rate we have a finally developed muscle there.
From Morgan Stanley we have Jay Sole online.
Please go ahead.
Questions about the basketball trend.
Under Armour has made a lot of improvement in basketball recently.
And when that happens do you see overall interest level from a consumer standpoint increase or do you think one brand's benefit really just comes at the expense of another brand? Well I think that we end up expanding the market in totality Jay.
I think that there's kids that are comfortable with the Under Armour brand there are kids that will try the Under Armour brand because some of things that they're doing but I think that in the end we end up expanding the market a bit.
It's a new price point it's a new vendor there is new excitement around and the Curry shoe -- obviously having him win the three-points shoot out in his new shoe than we heard us starting this quarter around the All-Star game.
So I don't necessarily think it’s a share shift I think that we end up growing the market a bit.
Got it.
And then just on that All-Star game can you just talk about how you were able to leverage that event and turn it into a big sales driver? The All-Star game is important for us every year regardless of where it's played.
Obviously with us being in New York and the league being here in New York there is a lot of excitement around it.
So I think that one of the differences this year was the fact it was held in two locations.
So we've seen many markets where the All-Star Game is brought the town the city to have virtual hall.
Well New York of course is so big that it can absorb all of that but it's a good boost of the start of our year regardless of where the All-Star Game is held.
It's ultimately driven by great product.
Great product and we have some exciting things going on in special shop.
From Canaccord Genuity we have Camilo Lyon online.
Please go ahead.
Apologize for the voice.
Just one question here looking out to ’15 in thinking about the mid-single digit comp here you've had five years of mid to high-single digit comps outstanding performance.
Can you help us prioritize the building blocks that will drive another mid-single digit comps this year whether it's categories remodels e-com international? Any sort of prioritization and maybe quantification would be greatly appreciated.
Well Camilo I think that we’ve got the ability to walk and chew gum with all of those categories.
So I think that there is strength across our banners there is strength across our categories there is strength across our channels and there is strength across our geography.
So we obviously have internal plans that we work off of but I think our guys -- our teams are all driven to find success in -- retail is sort of a perpetual game.
It's not like we can’t repeat -- it's more difficult in some of the team sports to repeat but our team certainly believes that they can repeat and I don’t think it makes any difference what banner they represent what channel they represent and what geography they represent.
So I think there is a nice strength across our business.
All with all of those levers that you enumerate that’s had all of those levers and what make us excited about the future and give us confidence and we’ll be talking a lot more about that excitement on the 16th.
No change in demand profile for any of the categories nor the opportunities to continue to drive sell through for them? Well we -- our categories are always ebb and flow Camilo.
Our buyers and our merchant teams do a great job of identifying hot categories and shifting off to the buy dollars to be in the right place.
We work closely with our vendor partners to have a view of the future but we don’t give in to where we see categories going up and down dramatically.
So I just think that we have a strength across all the pillars that you mentioned and that really to Lauren's point is what has us excited about ’15 and certainly beyond.
So thanks again for participating on today’s call.
We hope to see many of you here on the 16th and please join us on our next earnings call which we anticipate will take place at 9 AM on Friday May 22nd following the release of our first quarter results earlier that morning.
Thanks again and good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Foot Locker's First Quarter Financial Results for 2015 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of the future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a more complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Investor Relations &amp; Vice President</strong> Thank you Christine.
I'd like to welcome all of you to Foot Locker Inc.'s first quarter earnings conference call.
Driven by a strong comparable sales gain of 7.8% this morning we reported first quarter net income of $184 million or $1.29 per share.
This net income result is an increase of 13% compared to last year's GAAP net income of $162 million and 12% higher than our non-GAAP result last year of $164 million.
The $1.29 earnings per share figure is 17% higher than the $1.10 per share we earned in the first quarter of 2014 with a higher percentage increase in EPS compared to the increase in net income attributable to the continued reduction of shares outstanding resulting from the execution of our share repurchase program.
The $1.29 earnings per share result also represent a 16% increase over our non-GAAP earnings of $1.11 in Q1 last year.
Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will open our prepared remarks this morning with a detailed review of our first quarter financial results.
Dick Johnson our President and Chief Executive Officer will then provide additional product and operational insight into our first quarter result and review the progress we are making on our recently updated strategic priorities.
As always we look forward to answering your questions following our prepared remarks.
Lauren? Thank you John and good morning to you all.
2015 has started off on a very strong foot with the first quarter results representing another record financial performance.
In terms of nominal net income dollars it was the most profitable quarter in our 100-plus years as a public company.
The 7.8% comparable sales gain that John mentioned translated into a 2.6% overall sales increase factoring in the impact of significantly weaker foreign currencies compared to a year ago.
On a constant currency basis total sales increased 7.9% with strength in all of our regions and channels.
Breaking out our comparable sales gains by segment our stores were up 6.5% while the direct-to-customer business leather performance was an 18.5% sales increase.
Within the direct-to-customer segment Eastbay generated a low-single-digit increase while our domestic store banner dot-com businesses collectively increased sales almost 50% for a two-year staff increase of over 90%.
Clearly our investments in digital capabilities have been effective as have our initiatives to create a customer experience that seamlessly incorporates all the ways they engage with us: desktop mobile or in store.
Overall direct-to-customer sales increased to 12.3% of total sale from 11.3% a year ago.
Our international divisions produced the strongest sales results within our store segment.
Europe was up low-double digits overall with double-digit sales increases in all of the major countries on a constant currency basis.
Our Foot Locker Asia Pacific business which operates in Australia and New Zealand posted a comparable sales gain in the low teens while Foot Locker Canada generated a gain in the high-single digits.
We also had strong performance in the U.S.
with the Foot Locker and Footaction banners both producing high-single digit gain.
Kids Foot Locker and Lady Foot Locker generated gains in the mid-single digits and that was the fourth consecutive positive sales result for our women's division.
Champs Sports posted a low-single digit comparable sales decline with strengthened footwear not quite enough to offset an ongoing decline in apparel sale.
While Dick will touch on some of the current product challenges at Champs it remains a highly profitable chain with significant opportunities to get back to positive sales growth.
Turning to families of business.
Footwear continued to be the leader in the first quarter with the gain in the low-double digits.
Apparel was close to flat overall with some pluses and minuses by division and region while sales of accessories were down high-single digits challenged by changing trends and stocks in-house.
By category running sales increased in the mid-teens with Foot Locker Europe posting the strongest gain.
Basketball was up low-double digits overall with growth even higher outside the U.S.
The casual category was mixed with gains in boots and certain classics offset by declines in various vulcanized styles.
We noted on our previous call that February's comp gain was in the mid-single digits.
Shift of Easter this year to the beginning of April two weeks earlier than last year benefited March sales which were up low-double digits while April's comp gain was back to mid-single digits.
We were able to lever these strong sales to improve gross margin by 40 basis points to 35% of sales from 34.6% a year ago.
Our merchandise margin rate improved 20 basis points on a constant currency basis.
FX changes cost us 20 basis points.
And leverage of our relatively fixed buying and occupancy costs gave us 40 basis points of improvement.
The improvement in merchandise margin was primarily the result of operating with lower markdowns in both our stores and our digital business.
While our initial market rate declined slightly again the vendor and category mix issues we mentioned frequently in 2014 moderated substantially during the quarter.
Our SG&amp;A expense rate improved 100 basis points to 18% of sales from 19% last year.
60 basis points of the improvement was the result of expense control and sales leverage while the other 40 basis points was related to FX as translating operating costs denominated in weaker foreign currencies actually led to a decline in reported SG&amp;A dollars.
The investments we have made in the training of our associates as well as the hiring and scheduling tools we have rolled out to almost all of our divisions around the world continue to yield benefits by getting our most productive associates engaged with our customers during peak selling opportunities.
This enhanced productivity as measured by across-the-board gains and sales per payroll hour is an important component of our ability to lever SG&amp;A expenses to the record low levels we saw in the first quarter.
At $35 million depreciation expense was down slightly from last year's $36 million due in part to FX which reduced this year's figure by $2 million.
We still expect depreciation to trend up over the course of 2015 reflecting the higher levels of capital investments we are making and it should come in at approximately $150 million for the year.
The rest of the income statement primarily interest expense and income taxes came in very close to our expectations going into the quarter.
Our inventory management continues to improve along with our sales and profit results.
At actual FX rates inventory decreased 2.7% compared to our 2.6% sales increase.
On a constant currency basis inventory increased 2.4% compared to our 7.9% currency neutral total sales increase.
These results reflect the progress we are making on one of our least talked about long-term objectives although it is one of my favorites inventory turns exceeding three times.
While it is an internal measure I can say we are making consistent progress improving inventory efficiency pushing our turns towards this goal especially in footwear.
We ended the quarter with $986 million of cash a decrease of $21 million from the end of Q1 last year.
We continue to execute our share repurchase program acquiring 2.3 million shares for approximately $129 million during the first quarter.
And we also paid an increased quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share.
Together the share repurchases and dividend amounted to $164 million of cash return to our shareholders almost 90% of our net income in the quarter.
We also invested approximately $58 million of capital into our business including opening 37 new stores and remodeling or relocating 55 stores.
Many of these projects include a vendor shop-in-shop such as the House of Hoops Fly Zone or PUMA Lab.
We closed 41 stores with the largest number of closures continuing to be at Lady Foot Locker.
We ended the quarter with 3 419 company owned stores.
Touching briefly on some of our operational metrics.
An increase in average unit retail was driven by the lower markdown rates I mentioned as well as the ongoing trend of customers opting for more premium product for example from a less expensive vulcanized shoe to a special print Roshe or a ZX Flux shoe.
While traffic and units sold were down a bit in the quarter conversion ticked up as our product and marketing differentiation effort ensured more customers came in to our stores ready to shop and buy and our outstanding sales associates were ready equipped to serve them.
To sum up we delivered results in line with or better than our guidance on just about every financial and operational metric fueled by sales that exceeded plan and we were able to flow those incremental sales to the bottom line at a good rate.
Although in line with our expectations the stronger dollar took away almost $100 million from our top line which flowed down to a $0.05 hit to EPS in the quarter.
Overall there were no real surprises in the quarter to create a need to adjust annual guidance we gave you back in March.
To summarize that guidance again we expect comparable sales gains to be in the mid-single digits with no significant deviations by quarter.
Gross margin should be flat to up slightly SG&amp;A to improve 50 basis points to 60 basis points depreciation to be approximately $150 million and our effective tax rate to be about 36.5%.
That all should lead to double-digit EPS growth for the year.
The second quarter being a relatively low sales volume quarter will likely be the quarter most negatively impacted by the stronger dollar.
We've been planning a mid-single digit comp gain in the second quarter and we're off to a very solid start with a double-digit month-to-date comparable sales gain.
That said there are some launch shifts coming up that will likely impact that month-to-date comp rate.
Let me now turn the call over to Dick to delve into more of the product details behind our strong first quarter results and more broadly review how we're doing executing our updated strategic priorities.
Dick? Thanks Lauren.
And good morning.
I appreciate everyone taking the time to be with us this morning.
Let's start by looking at our core business which we have defined as selling basketball running and casual footwear in our men's stores in the U.S.
In other words Foot Locker Footaction and Champs Sports.
Lauren already mentioned the strong comparable sales gains at Locker and Footaction where our merchant and marketing teams have done a great job creating clear swim lanes by differentiating the assortments in those banners.
Both have taken full advantage of the strong trends in lifestyle running footwear including platforms such as the Roshe Huarache and Max Air (sic) [Air Max] from Nike and ZX Flux from adidas.
At the same time they have also sharpened their focus on their core customer with Foot Locker really taking advantage of the ongoing strength in signature basketball.
It is very encouraging that our customers are embracing new signature athletes such as Kyrie Irving with Nike Steph Curry with Under Armour and Damian Lillard at adidas all while the established players LeBron KD and Kobe are posting sales gains in footwear also.
The Footaction banner is on many of those trends as well.
But it also has an especially strong position in other lifestyle footwear silhouettes from Jordan Nike Timberland and PUMA.
On the apparel side Footaction is generating nice comparable sales gains by focusing on the lifestyle assortments of the established athletic brands while also working with smaller non-traditional vendors to bring a fresh and different fashion look to our customers.
We are beginning to roll out our remodeled Footaction store design with excellent results so far as well as additional Jordan Flight 23 and Nike Kicks Lounge shop-in-shops inside our Footaction stores.
Champs Sports has participated in many of the strong footwear trends I just mentioned as well as the adidas Superstar business that also performed well around the globe in the first quarter.
However this banner does have a larger exposure to training and performance running styles which has limited its footwear gains.
The relative weakness at Champs continued to the apparel.
Fleece bottoms sold well but it was not enough to offset the exposure to licensed apparel and losses in shorts and performance socks.
The team at Champs continues to work with our vendor partners to strengthen assortments in both footwear and apparel as we cycle against some of the programs that are downtrending.
Turning to our growth pillars our Kids business turned in another solid quarter.
Lauren mentioned that the Kids Foot Locker division was up mid-single digits although I'll mention that the other banners that sell children's footwear our business was up double digits.
While still posting a strong result our Kids division did suffer a few times in Q1 with delivery issues related to the West Coast port delays.
Looking ahead we believe deliveries are in good shape and over the rest of the year we will be accelerating the rollout of one of our very successful partnerships with Nike the Fly Zone at Kids Foot Locker.
We'll also continue to add KFL stores to our fleet both in the U.S.
and internationally.
We had an outstanding result in Europe another of our growth pillars with the overall business up low-double digits in the quarter.
Basketball driven by Jordan was up double digits while running was up in the high teens with adi's ZX Flux and Nike modern comfort styles leading the way.
Our court business was also very strong led by classics such as the adi Superstar and Stan Smith's.
Among the many encouraging developments was a modest comparable sales gain in apparel reversing a negative trend over the last several quarters.
Gains in Nike Tee and Tech Fleece more than offset ongoing declines in other older styles and licensed apparel.
We believe we have settled (19:30) through the most challenging parts of our European apparel business and as a result that category can again contribute to productivity gains there.
Another encouraging development is the broad-based nature of our gains in the quarter.
As Lauren mentioned all of our big countries produced double-digit comparable sales gains including Spain and Italy which had lagged a bit last year as their economies struggled to gain traction.
While it is possible that macroeconomic headwinds may still occur from time to time our business in Europe has remained profitable throughout.
We intend to continue building out our Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker presence in European countries with the most opportunity for store growth.
At the same time we are adjusting the models for our Runners Point and Sidestep banners to create the necessary differentiation between the Foot Locker banner and maximize our potential both in Germany and in other markets.
Just last month we opened a newly designed and assorted Runners Point store in Cologne that has attracted great attention from the local running community.
It's a model we will test in other markets as we continue to prepare that banner for future expansion.
I touched on our apparel results already so let me turn to the next store of growth for us our digital business which had another outstanding quarter.
Lauren noted the top-line growth of our U.S.
store banners dot-com and Eastbay.
The team was able to delivery healthy margins to go along with those strong sales.
The primary product drivers of the excellent sales growth of the store banner dot-com sites were similar to the store business that I have described.
In its specialized assortments for the elite athlete Eastbay also continues to perform exceptionally well with gains in baseball football soccer training including our strong position in weightlifting shoes and our team sales.
Although we've had some stock – had our stock locator program in place for quite some time the benefits are accelerating from the investments we have made in opening our inventory up across all of our channels.
Our buy online ship from store capabilities are becoming an increasingly important incremental driver of sales and margin for our business.
Turning to our European digital businesses growth rates are high with plenty of opportunity for increased penetration relative to the store business.
Margins are up significantly due in part to a reduced emphasis on off-price selling – off-price clearance merchandise that was part of the digital business we acquired with Runners Point.
We have brought the management of the digital business in Europe under one combined team and are moving those sites to a common platform.
As a result we are able to draw on best practices not only from Foot Locker and Runners Point in Europe but also from our global center of digital excellence in Wausau Wisconsin.
Finally we recently launched our digital business for Foot Locker Canada and that business is off to a very encouraging start.
Turning now to our women's business we had another solid comparable sales gain at SIX:02 Lady Foot Locker marking four consecutive quarters of comp gains.
Footwear was up mid-single digits led by many of the lifestyle running styles from Nike adidas that drove the men's business.
ASICS also remains a very important brand to this customer.
Apparel however was the real bright spot with a low double-digit gain.
Fitness pants capris and tops from both Nike and adi powered most of the volume.
But Under Armour and Reebok are generating gains as well off smaller bases.
The vast majority of the chains still consists of Lady Foot Locker doors and we are pleased with the progress we are making there with our updated assortments with as much emphasis as possible on key apparel elements while still driving a healthy footwear business.
Meanwhile we now have 20 SIX:02 stores opened.
We continue to elevate the assortments in our SIX:02 stores with not only the best products from the major athletic brands but also key items from brands such as Alala and Lorna Jane.
We're continuing the exciting work of building a brand including leading with our six02.com website which enables a national outreach while we build up our store network by market.
We are also developing various community outreach and grassroots marketing efforts as we work diligently to have her discover the SIX:02 brand and spread the word about it to all of her friends.
Finally the women's business in our other banners is also doing very well with double-digit footwear gains in Foot Locker in the U.S.
Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Let me wrap up my prepared remarks by thanking the entire team at Foot Locker Incorporated for the tremendous achievement of producing the most profitable quarter in the 100-plus years of our company.
We've now produced 21 consecutive quarters of comparable sales gains and profit increases.
This first quarter was the fourth consecutive all-time record of first quarter earnings and we have achieved broad-based diversified gains around the company with strong performances across regions channels banners and categories.
It took each person in the company working together with passion energy skill and the true love of the game to deliver these outstanding results and I'm very proud to be a part of this high-performing team.
Thank you.
I will be happy to take your questions.
Go ahead Christine.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Very good results overall.
I'm actually going to nitpick a bit here then.
First average price points certainly continue to assist.
What's the outlook for the go-forward period on ASP? And what can you do to overcome some of the weak overall mall traffic to boost that metric up? Second what's the comp from the stores that have been remodeled versus the rest of the base right? Champs' performance suggests that there may not be as much of a lift being provided given the apparel weakness which I would also like for you to address if there's any assortment changes or any initiatives on that front that we should look forward to.
Sure Paul.
Thanks.
From an ASP perspective we continue to see the ASP moving up slightly.
Some of it a shift out of lower-priced vulcanized product maybe into some of the modern comfort running styles.
There continues to be high price point basketball offerings.
So the ASPs and transaction values I think are going to continue to increase a little bit.
And I think the customers are certainly willing to pay when they see the exciting product that our vendors are bringing to bear on the marketplace.
So I think there will continue to be some growth there.
And I think the traffic comment I think as long as we can continue to bring exciting product into our stores our customer chooses the avenue that they're going to shop on any given day.
And when you combine our digital business and our in-store business we want to be accessible to the consumer however they choose to shop and interact with our banners on any given day.
So that's going to continue to ebb and flow and traffic is different around the globe.
I think that there's been some reduced traffic in key tourist stores in the U.S.
At the same time traffic has looked solid in Europe as some of those visitors may be staying home than shopping.
So I think again because of the diversification we've got in geography traffic is mixed around the globe.
The comps in the remodel stores we haven't separated out our comps from the remodels and not.
I can tell you that across all banners the comps and our remodels are outperforming the balance of chain and the remodels are meeting all of our hurdle levels.
So we're continuing that program across all of the banners and we've got a little bit of work going on in every banner with right now the emphasis being on Footaction here in the U.S.
but Foot Locker continues to remodel and add vendor shops.
Footaction continues to remodel and add vendor shops.
Champs continues to remodel as well so the program is going to continue.
Then clearly on the apparel assortment we've seen the turn in Europe.
I think when you look at Champs probably the biggest change in the assortment and the steps that we're going to take they're changing their mix of licensed product.
They're the banner that had the most exposure to licensed and to jerseys specifically.
So while there continue to have a footprint in licensed they will not be jersey-based.
It'll be a little bit different mix of product that's relevant to the local market.
So again we're confident that the team of Champs is working hard on the apparel piece.
We do believe that the remodels are helping on the apparel presentation in the Tyrone concept.
So the guys are working hard and we expect it to turn.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate that color Dick.
Thank you.
One quick one for Lauren.
Just merchandise margins were up this quarter which was nice to see but with the guidance for gross margin I believe still just flat to up slightly my assumption is that there's no expected gains in merchant margins going forward.
Why is that? And also how should we think about the embedded assumption for occupancy leverage on the mid-single digit comp? Yeah.
So the dynamics that we have in the balance of the year similar to what we had in the first quarter where we've got some headwinds because of weaker foreign currency that shows up with challenge to the gross margin.
As we saw on the first quarter with a 7% 8% comp those kinds of comps helps the leverage so that's part of the offset there.
We weren't successful on the first quarter in lowering our markdown rate.
So that's what led to the 20 basis points improvement that we saw in merchandise margin.
So those are the dynamics and as we look to the rest of the quarter we've got this FX thing to write out.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Thank you and congrats.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Komp from R.W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Maybe Lauren the first question I have just as it relates to the earnings guidance for the year.
I think you said you have no real reason at this point to update the prior range and I think part of that is double-digit growth obviously it's fairly open-ended.
So maybe in the context of the results you've just posted for the first quarter I guess has your degree of confidence in the outlook changed at all or is the level of double-digit growth that you're expecting any different from the prior level of double-digit growth or could you give any more perspective on that? I'm not going to refine double-digit but no we're not modifying the guidance so still looking for mid-single digit.
First quarter came in high on that spectrum of mid-single comp.
But no that translate with the flow-throughs that we're describing to double-digit EPS after we factor in the FX currency which again cost us a nickel in the first quarter.
And as we stated the guidance on FX for full year that's going to continue to be an element.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And I know you called out specifically the second quarter up mid-single digits for the EPS which is consistent with what you said a few months ago.
Is that the only quarter you expect to be kind of below that double-digit rate or how should we think about the reasons for calling out the second quarter specifically? It's got the biggest gap from where the currencies are today to where they were a year ago and relatively lower sales below the (33:18) top line.
So that dynamic puts more pressure on the EPS growth in 2Q.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then maybe just one last one.
Just to clarify for the second quarter you mentioned the comps off to a very strong start and also called out some shifts coming up during the balance of the quarter.
Could you maybe just provide a little bit more color on what those shifts are and kind of how you expect the quarter to play out maybe from a high level.
Well we've been pretty clear.
I mean the launch shifts change month to month sometimes quarter to quarter.
Not all launches are created equally and launch is just a portion of the business.
We've got some sales tax holiday shifts that happen at the end of this quarter so the guidance to mid-single digit comp gains just as sort of the – we're only less than two weeks into Q2.
So the fact that we've had a great start to Q2 we expect to have a strong Q2 but it will moderate a bit from where we are today.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
Thanks for all the color.
Thanks Jonathan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Susan Anderson from FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about just what's working at Lady Foot Locker.
And also we noticed in the stores you're starting to take out some of the ladies' product in the Foot Locker segment (34:58).
Are you maybe focusing more on the Lady Foot Locker brand? Thank you.
Yeah.
I mean we've had both footwear and apparel have a strong quarter at Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02 and obviously with only 20 SIX:02 doors open the strength of the gains right now are coming from Lady Foot Locker.
The assortment changes a bit in the other banners but there's been no decrease of women's footwear in any of our other banners.
They all have a strong position in women's depending on the mall that they're in and the adjacencies that they've got.
So we've seen good casual running styles selling at Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02.
We've seen some performance models that have been successful.
We've seen really strong pushes in some of the apparel things that we're testing and bringing in.
Probably the driver right now is that we are bringing I think a better apparel assortment into the Lady Foot Locker stores especially where we have enough room in those stores to show it appropriate.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And so should we think about the Foot Locker brand starting to focus more on men's and then sell kids and then the ladies' brands more at Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02? Well I think that all of our banners except Footaction have women's footwear and will continue to have women's footwear assortments going forward.
The girl or the female that walks into a Foot Locker is a little bit different than the female that we're targeting with SIX:02.
We've got 1 100 Foot Locker stores in the U.S.
We've got something less than 200 Lady Foot Locker stores so there's a lot of malls where there's not a Lady Foot Locker store and we still expect to be able to service a female customer.
So they're creating as we said earlier clear swim lanes so that the female that shops in each of those stores has a different offering.
But they will all live in harmony as we continue to service various female customers in the mall.
Great.
That's helpful.
Congrats on the quarter and good luck next quarter.
Thank you Susan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
Nice job.
I guess first question just a point of clarification regarding the second quarter in the comp you're off to a very strong start.
It seems like there's – you've got a good launch coming this weekend and towards the tail end of the month there's also a good launch.
Is it just the viewpoint that as you get towards the tail end of the quarter some of those tax-free holidays shift into August and that's where you would comment that that comp is unsustainable because it doesn't seem like there's big meaningful shifts in the product launch that would cause that.
I'm just curious some clarification around that.
Yeah.
We had good strong launches last year.
So I mean we're up against good strong launches in those weekends as well.
And there are shifts that happen.
It can be quantities can be week-to-week.
And you called out the sales tax shift.
I mean that impacts some of our stores here in the U.S.
so again the first 12 days 13 days of the quarter have been...
Have run the full quarter mix (38:31).
Yeah.
Exactly – have been strong and we feel good about it and we're happy to have the running rate that we have right now.
But I also know how our guys have looked at the quarter in great detail and that's where we see it moderating a bit.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I mean it's still a tremendous start so that's great to hear.
So I'm just curious switching to Europe for a second and just – it's nice to see the progress on apparel finally.
I'm just curious about number one the sustainability there and number two kind of how that plays into your viewpoint on the margin profile whether EBIT or product margin profile and the opportunity there in Europe as well as you move forward.
Yeah.
I mean I think that clearly having a positive gain in apparel for the quarter was a positive for the Europe team and they've bounced along trying to make changes to the assortment; they've gotten there.
They're still – we talked about it in the prepared remarks they've got some older silhouettes and some older programs that they have to work through but we expect the newer stuff and the direction that they've taken the assortment to continue to improve which should in fact help us on the margin line.
So I think that they've done a nice job re-assorting the stores.
They've got things going in the right direction but the old stuff that wasn't successful doesn't go away right? I mean you've got to make it go away and it takes some markdowns to do that.
So they've done a really good job and they're just going to be coming in to their summer sale period.
A lot of the countries in Europe have regulated sale period.
So they'll use some markdowns to move through some of the old stuff but as we get to the back half of the year and they've gotten through some of the older programs I expect the apparel margins to improve in Europe.
Okay.
All the productivity measures and initiatives that we have apply to Europe just as they do in the U.S.
So the things that we're doing on allocation the things that we're doing to help make our associates ever more productive all of those coupled with strength in apparel will help margins both in Europe and the U.S.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just finally just on the inventory I know crossing – being the three turns – in terms of what we see is nice.
I know Lauren you have a much higher or different metric you look at.
Where are we in relation to that metric at this point? And I guess the inventory allocation which really kicks in next year plays an important role to getting that where you want it to be.
Just sort of curious as to where you are internally on that number.
Halfway there whatever? We're continuing to make progress.
We haven't crossed the three mark yet but we are making progress on that.
And you can read it as you look at what our total inventory growth is relative to the sales growth.
And as long as we're continuing to manage that below the sales growth we're making progress on the turn.
It's coming in footwear.
We're making significant progress.
And as these apparel initiatives gain traction well that gives us fuel to help further that.
The allocation tool that we've invested in is in the process of rollout of coming online.
We're adding more product to it as we progress through this year.
But as you call out it gets more powerful for influencing that turn as we get into next year and start benefiting from its learning and are at the point next year and into the following year where it helps us place our orders for better flow and allocation.
So yeah it's a multiyear play.
But we'll keep you posted on how we're doing on that.
It is improving.
Okay.
I'm sure you will.
Thank you and all the best.
Thanks.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Sole from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning.
Dick I want to ask you about your online business a really strong growth this past quarter and at the same time you mentioned I think traffic in the stores was negative.
Do you see a direct relationship between traffic in stores and traffic online? Is there an inverse relationship where when one is down the other is up more? If you could just talk about that a little bit that'd be really helpful.
Yeah.
I don't think there's a direct correlation Jay.
I mean I think that – again our focus is making sure that we engage with the customer however they choose to on any given day.
And traffic is influenced by a lot of factors.
We don't talk about weather often but when the weather's crappy sometimes people don't go out.
And again the traffic phenomena is different around the globe for us.
I mean we've got some areas in Western Europe where our traffic is up nicely.
Again is that related to maybe the Europeans not taking U.S.
vacations this year? I think if you read a lot of the press and tourist markets they will tell you that the traffic is down right now in a lot of different ways.
So I think our focus is truly engaging with the customer however they choose to engage with us any given day.
So we certainly want to drive them to the stores but we also want them to look at us online.
If they get excited by the latest Foot Locker approved commercial that they see on YouTube and they hang out watching that stuff with Foot Locker in mind all day long that's a win for us.
Interesting.
And then if I can ask you about SIX:02 at the same time can you give us an update from what you talked about at the Investor Day? You have 20 stores open right now.
You're elevating (44:42) the assortment how close do you feel like you are to really accelerating the growth of the concept and feeling like you got it exactly where you wanted to be? Well I'm not sure that we'll ever feel like we got it exactly where we want it to be right? I mean that's the way retail works that there's always improvements and things that we can do better.
But our thoughts haven't really changed from Investor Day Jay.
I mean I think the target that we talked about is something over 30 stores by the end of this year and then we'll be in a position to examine the ramp-up as we look at 2016 and 2017.
And we're very bullish on the business.
I think that our team that's focused on SIX:02 is doing a great job finding the right sweet spot on the apparel mix working to get the right footwear silhouettes in testing some new brands.
It's part of the evolution and I think that we talked about the excitement of building a brand from scratch.
We haven't done that for a while around here.
So there's a lot of energy that goes into it and making sure that she finds the store figuring out traffic drivers and grassroots marketing things that we can do to connect in the markets where we're clustering our stores along with growing our online banner the six02.com business.
So again I think we're in the same place from a thought process as we were at our Investor Day Jay but again that place is very bullish on the SIX:02 business.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Jay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Boss from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Great quarter.
Just from a bottom-line perspective I don't want to get ahead of you guys too early here.
But larger picture any structural hurdles that would prevent the model from reaching mid-teens EBIT margins over time? No.
I mean we talked about that at Investor Day too Matt.
I think that structurally there is nothing that will inhibit that but it's a long climb.
And we know how much effort and how much work it takes with our vendors and our team here to add a tick or two to that EBIT margin along the way.
So we see steady improvement and that's our goal and objective is to keep driving that number up.
Okay.
Great.
And then just to clarify more near term is mid-single digit EPS growth is that still the forecast for the second quarter? And if so is that based on mid-single digit same-store sales? Yeah.
The guidance was mid-single digit comps.
I mean with not significant variation by quarter and double-digit EPS for the full year.
The second quarter again most challenged on a EPS double digit in the second quarter because of the – where the currencies are today versus where they were a year ago.
Okay.
Great.
I think it was three months ago you guys laid out mid-single digits for the second quarter and I think that's why – I think that's some of the clarification people are looking for.
Yes.
Just to make sure I didn't...
We did not say that mid-single digit on EPS for second quarter.
We said it's the most challenging quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
My question was focused on Runners Point and the Sidestep business and you had mentioned during the call you had made some changes there in order to better define the banners.
Can you walk us through what some of those changes are and what the rollout strategy is? Hey Kate thanks for the question on Runners Point because we're making good progress there.
I think we've talked about it at our Investor Day but the Runners Point stores are truly going to be everything running right? I mean from casual lifestyle running to performance running to race day running.
And we've added a bit of women's a bit more women's so as you walk into a Runners Point store now one wall is men's one wall is women's.
We're adding some training into the mix as well so we'll be about running and training.
They've got the apparel assortments.
We opened a little bit bigger store in Cologne with some design elements that we're testing to see if they work if the consumer responds to it.
And again the initial – it's been open about three weeks now I think and the initial response from the local running community which is a big part of going to Runners Point stores has been very positive.
We're going through the same exercise in Europe segmenting product looking at the different consumer muses and creating the right assortments so that Foot Locker Runners Point and Sidestep all have clear room to work.
And the Foot Locker banner's very clearly established.
The Runners Point banner we've now put in place.
With that being said that also means that we fired some customers at Runners Point right? There's no more canvass product in Runners Point.
No more boots no more vulcanized product.
And so that's the type of product that the consumer will find at Sidestep.
So we're now going through the work process with Sidestep to define their muse clearly and get their assortment right.
So we're learning with the store in Cologne a little bit bigger format almost becomes a key lighthouse store in a market.
And then we'll surround it with more traditional sized Runners Point stores to strengthen the feel in any community.
We're also developing the model to reach out into that running community and make sure that we've got the strong connection.
So again you know that we're pretty pragmatic.
We think about a prototype.
We build that prototype whether it's physical or the community building piece of it.
We test it.
We tweak it and then we develop our rollout strategy.
And that same process is going on with Runners Point and Sidestep.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's very helpful.
And then my last question is just on the innovation pipeline particularly for running for the rest of the year.
Just wondering if you could walk us through what the dynamics are with the innovation pipeline prior to an Olympic year.
Do you see things kind of slow down a little bit in terms of what's being turned out and then you see a surge around the Olympics in terms of a new platform or new idea for the following year? I mean historically that's been the pattern Kate I mean that new things that will drive an Olympic year start to show up later in the year before.
But innovation comes in a lot of forms for our consumer right.
A very cool Roshe becomes exciting and an innovative thing on the kid's foot.
The ZX Flux shoe that we've got from adi that's got very cool patterns and connected to apparel and headwear.
Those things our kids sees as innovation.
I mean talk about new technology absolutely the Olympic year will fuel some exciting things.
But all of the vendors are bringing exciting product to market.
And the innovation is helpful and we all look forward to that.
But right now our kids are finding the product mix pretty exciting.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks guys and congrats on a great quarter and a tough quarter for the retailers.
Thanks Mike.
I wanted to see if we could just think about your comp guidance for a little bit here.
Lauren maybe you could help me out the mid-single digit comp gains that you guys pointed to.
But you did mention that I think units were down in the first quarter and implied that traffic at brick and mortar were down which is not anything different than we're seeing at the mall.
But can you talk about how you guys built up your guidance for mid-single digits in each quarter? And I'm guessing you expect some price increases or a mix shift towards premium to continue in the second half.
That's been going on in a while particularly in basketball so maybe a good time to reflect on what you expect as far as building up to that mid-single digits in the back half.
Really – I mean the expectation is that the trends that we've been seeing we don't see any reason for those to change.
So yes AUR has been increasing.
AUR has been a story now for quite some time.
Several factors have been contributing to that.
We've been less promotional and the customer as we've described has been opting towards this innovative more premium product which is of course our specialty.
So that's part of it also coupled with our remodel program and the exciting vendor shop-in-shops that we've been adding that have delivered these increases.
So as we thought about mid-single we've thought about what we were doing on the CapEx and how those remodeled stores were performing.
Okay.
And then Dick you mentioned...
But I'm also – I'm going to go back to the tape because I have done that on the Q2 guidance.
I absolutely did tell you in March that Q2 being the most pressured on a mid-single we were thinking about that being mid-single digit EPS because of the FX.
So it's – I would tell you that we saw a nickel of pressure in the first quarter.
We planned the year thinking that the euro would be about $1.10 $1.11 before I walked in this morning.
The pressure on Q2 think about as being about a nickel.
Investor Relations &amp; Vice President</span></strong> Right.
A nickel is bigger on Q2's volume than it is on Q1 as a percentage basis.
Okay.
Sorry.
Again we said full year EPS impact if the euro stayed at about $1.10 it was $0.16 to $0.18 for the full year.
So does that help? Well I think that was someone else's question but it is interesting.
So are you trying to tell us that the – I'm trying to figure out if you're telling us that the guidance for mid-single digit earnings growth in the second quarter that you commented on in March is that still where you're guiding the second quarter or not? I'd said if the euro stayed about where it is today it's about a nickel's worth of pressure.
So is there a possibility for it to be double digits? We're very focused on productivity and flow-through so to the extent that we'd beat sales plan yeah that can happen.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then just back to some of the thoughts on the comp for the year Dick you mentioned that you have confidence in the team working on the Champs business and that they're working on the merchandise assortment to get it back to positive territory.
What did you guys count on in the rest of the year in particular in the back half for Champs? Do you think you'll have it back in positive territory by then? Yeah I'm confident in the team and I believe that it will in fact get there.
We've got some older things still to cycle through and that license exposure that I talked about in some of the sock business.
The brands and the team are working close together.
So I'm somewhat optimistic that they can get it positive by the end of the year.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Congrats again on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Kernan from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just moving away from discussion on Q2 looks like Kids Foot Locker led in both remodels and openings.
Can you just talk about trends there both by category and by vendor? And then just on running it sounded like running got better.
I think you said up mid-teens.
Can you talk about what in running drove that? Thank you.
We talked about KFL in the prepared remarks and while the actual comp was a little bit tougher in KFL based on some West Coast port issues we're very bullish on the business and it's bounced back nicely in Q2 now.
So we have continued to open doors.
We're remodeling some doors and adding the Kids Fly Zone with Nike – a shop-in-shop with Nike in some of our KFL stores.
And that's been very successful so we continue to see that happening.
There's a lot of similarities between Foot Locker and KFL from product that's working it's takedown of marquee and performance signature athlete basketball shoes some of the same silhouettes on the running side whether it be ZX Flux or Max 90s or whatever it happens to be that's driving the adult side.
So a lot of similarities there on the footwear side and the team is working hard on the apparel side in KFL as well.
So on the running front it's driven right now more by the lifestyle running than it is necessarily performance running but when you talk about ZX Flux and you talk about the Huarache and the Roshe the Max Air (sic) [Air Max] product from Nike those are all really important silhouettes and really important platforms for our businesses around the globe right now.
So we've got the ability to sort of see what's going well in Europe and then we can see if that works here in the U.S.
So I think the diversity of our geographies helps us to identify those hotter silhouettes.
So would you say premium running is getting better relative to some of the trends in the back half of last year? Premium running yes.
Technical running not necessarily.
Okay.
I think that we're seeing some nice play in some of the more expensive premium sort of running silhouettes.
They're not always truly technical performance-based.
But again most of the shoes that are built to run in aren't actually used to run in so I think that the customer's finding comfort – and some of that I think has got to do with (01:00:04) the apparel pant of choice was the cut bottom pant which looks better with a running silhouette.
I think that some of that's going on as well.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Camilo Lyon from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Nice job guys.
Lauren my question was on the IMU.
You mentioned that vendor and category helped on the initial market but I was wondering if you could give a little bit more detail around that and if that's a trend that should accelerate as the year progresses.
That was a little bit broken up but I think your question was around what we're seeing with the IMU.
And I had commented that the vendor and category mix that we talked about a lot (01:01:00) negatively impacting moderated in the first quarter.
So did I get your question right about what you're wanting to get more insight into? Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
IMU pressure (01:01:17) a little bit and how that looked for the rest of the year.
Should (01:01:21- 01:01:25) Sorry you're breaking up.
But yeah the questions are I think around IMU and what we're seeing.
So the moderated the pressure on IMU (01:01:33) is still down a bit from a year ago IMU.
And again it's being driven not just in the cost of the product to us but (01:01:45) of categories and vendors.
It moderated in the degree of (01:01:52) than the year before in the first quarter.
So would expect that that would be the case and that helps the merchandise margins at least at this point from it.
We're further helped by the finished (01:02:07) margins by the fact that we are less promotional and working on initiatives to further reduce the markdown.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Investor Relations &amp; Vice President</span></strong> Christine I think we have time for one more question.
Thank you.
Investor Relations &amp; Vice President</span></strong> Thank you.
And Christine I think we have time for one last one (01:02:25).
Yes.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
The call did seem like it starts to break up.
So hopefully you can hear me.
But congrats in this great execution from the team.
Most have been asked but let me just – if I could get a little bit of color as to the planned remodels for the balance of the year by banner.
Is there – have you guys ever broken that out or could we get some color on that? No Eric.
We have not broken out the (01:03:04) by banner.
Other than to say by the end of 2017 we expect about 10 of the Champs Stores and about 50% of the Foot Locker Stores to be done by the end of 2017.
Any way to see if that's...
And (01:03:20) also described here – I think we've also described to you that the actions new remodels came on just recently so it's in the early days but we're working through the banner as well.
Applying some of what we've done in Foot Locker U.S.
with the Willowbrook design internationally so we've got some updates going (01:03:45) as well.
Okay.
And then just if I could on capital allocation again I understand just kind of consistent dividend buyback.
Is there any kind of thoughts potentially for another Runners Point type of thing given the international play sort of exploiting maybe some of the dislocation in the European markets to pick up something that's attractive or is it really stay the course in terms of capital allocation? We talked about it at our Investor Day.
I mean there's no other acquisitions built into the plan that we've put out for 2020.
We have a lot of open to list and open to consider so it's not contemplated in our plan.
But who knows? Fair enough.
Okay guys.
Thanks so much and best of luck.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
Investor Relations &amp; Vice President</strong> Thank you for your participation today.
That's all we have time for but we look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9 on Friday August 21 following the release of our second quarter and year-to-date earnings results earlier that morning.
Thanks and good-bye.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Foot Locker's Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press releases and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker Inc.'s most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you Dawn.
Good morning.
Thank you very much for joining us today to discuss Foot Locker Inc.'s results for the second quarter of 2014.
In this morning's press release we reported an increase in second quarter net income to $92 million or $0.63 per share on a GAAP basis.
This EPS figure represents a 43% increase over our second quarter earnings in 2013 of $0.44 per share.
Year-to-date our net income has reached $254 million or $1.73 per share on a GAAP basis an increase of 25% over net income in the comparable 6-month period last year.
As noted in our release we incurred an impairment charge of approximately $2 million pretax related to the CCS trade name as we transitioned our online skate business to Eastbay.
Excluding this one-time expense second quarter non-GAAP EPS was a $0.01 higher at $0.64 a 39% increase over the $0.46 per share we earned on a non-GAAP basis last year.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is included in our press release and except as noted otherwise the numbers mentioned during our remarks today will be based on the non-GAAP results.
Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will start us off this morning with a summary of our second quarter and year-to-date financial results.
Dick Johnson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer will provide additional insight into the business drivers in the quarter.
And finally Ken Hicks Chairman and CEO will highlight our progress on several of the key initiatives leading us on the path towards achieving our current long-term objectives.
After Ken's prepared remarks we will open up the call for you to ask questions.
So let's jump right in.
Lauren shall we? Yes John let's.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I am very pleased to share with you the details of how we achieved the excellent overall results that John just highlighted.
We had strong top line growth as well as very strong performance in gross margin SG&amp;A and the balance sheet.
Our quarterly comparable sales gain of 7% is a clear indication that the momentum we have felt in our business in recent years has continued so far into 2014 and it's helped propel our financial results to new record highs.
With the strength of a full quarter of Runners Point Group sales our overall top line increased 12.9% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Recall that last year RPG sales were included only for the month of July.
Comparable sales increased high single digits in May mid-single digits in June and in July were strong mid-single digits.
By segment our athletic store sales were up 6.1% while sales in our direct-to-customer segment increased 14.9%.
We believe these results demonstrate the importance of having a strong and consistent focus across all channels of distribution since our customer expects a fresh and exciting store environment and an engaging and flexible digital experience.
Within our store divisions we drove low double-digit comparable sales gains in both our U.S.
Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker stores.
Our next strongest store banner I'm pleased to report was Lady Foot Locker with a gain in the high-mid-single digits.
Dick will address Lady Foot Locker's progress during his remarks.
Our international divisions of Footaction were each up in the mid-single-digit range.
Foot Locker Europe in fact posted a comparable store sales gain in all 19 countries in which it operates.
In addition the Runners Point and Sidestep banners both posted strong mid-single-digit comparable sales gains although recall that their comps will not be included in our consolidated comp numbers until October.
Foot Locker Canada's mid-single-digit gain this quarter was a nice improvement from the sales decline that posted in the first quarter when winter seemed unwilling to loosen its grip.
And although it is our smallest division by store count our Foot Locker Asia Pacific team has done a terrific job driving both top line results and our bottom line productivity which is now among the highest in our company.
The only store division which did not post a comparable sales gain was Champs Sports which missed by less than 1%.
The biggest challenge at Champs was in apparel and accessories which is a bigger percentage of their business than it is in our other divisions.
Within our direct-to-customer segment our U.S.
store banner.com business continues to be our fastest-growing business with sales increasing at close to a 40% clip.
Eastbay was up low-single digits in the quarter while CCS was down low-single digits.
The transition of our skate business from the CCS banner to Eastbay is proceeding in line with our plans and should be complete this fall.
With the growth in top line sales our gross margin improved at a very strong 80 basis points to 32%.
The gain was driven primarily by operating leverage on our relatively fixed occupancy and volume costs.
We improved our markdown rates in the quarter to offset ongoing pressure from lower initial market rates and lower shipping and handling income leaving our merchandise margin flat to last year.
Our expense management and store operations team did an exceptional job in the quarter with our SG&amp;A rate decreasing 70 basis points to 20.9%.
Some of the improvement from last year's second quarter rate was due to enhancing store associate productivity through enhanced training as well as utilization of hiring and scheduling tools being implemented in the last several quarters.
We also took a disciplined pay-as-you-go approach to marketing expenses which in Q2 actually came in below last year.
However due to the timing of certain back-to-school campaigns some of the marketing expense dollars are shifting from Q2 into Q3.
Depreciation expense increased to $36 million an increase of $5 million compared to last year.
This increase reflects the incremental investments we are making in our store fleet our digital businesses and technology to drive efficiencies in our operation as well as the addition of RPG to our asset base.
Our tax rate came in very close to our expectations at 36.3%.
Our rate was 140 basis points lower than last year's second quarter rate when tax expense was pressured up by an additional state tax provision and Runners Point acquisition costs which were not tax deductible.
The overall result was net income on a non-GAAP basis of $93 million or $0.64 per share an excellent 35% increase over last year.
We are proud to expect yet another record for our quarterly and year-to-date earnings results.
We also had a very strong inventory performance as we posted an increase of just 2% compared to a total sales increase of almost 13%.
We are working hard to improve our inventory turns and we are making good progress especially in footwear.
This inventory discipline enables us to keep solid flow of fresh receipts coming into the business and we feel our inventory is well positioned for the back-to-school and fall seasons.
We had strong cash flow during the quarter and in a period with a cash balance of $957 million.
This performance has enabled us to continue investing in the business as we track towards our annual plan of $220 million in capital expenditures.
We returned $98 million to our shareholders in the quarter through our $0.22 dividend which we increased by 10% at the beginning of this year and the repurchase of 1.33 million shares of our common stock for $66 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased $136 million of our stock reducing outstanding shares by almost 2.9 million.
In total we have returned $200 million of cash to our shareholders through our dividend and share repurchase programs so far this year.
Turning to a brief real estate summary.
We ended the second quarter with 3 460 company-operated stores a decrease of 4 from the end of the first quarter.
We are still on track to close just over 100 stores this year although some of the closures have been pushed back into the second half of the year.
We are currently projecting to open approximately 80 stores this year mostly in Europe and Kids Foot Locker up from our initial projection of about 60.
I will finish by updating our guidance for the balance of the year: Mid-single-digit comparable sales gains 20 to 40 basis points of leverage gains in gross margin 30 to 50 basis points of SG&amp;A rate improvement and a double-digit increase in EPS.
We performed even better than that in Q2 as we're off to a solid top line start to back-to-school with a high-single-digit comparable sales gain so far in August.
However I have mentioned a few timing factors such as the final liquidation of CCS merchandise this fall marketing expenses that shifted into Q3 and additional store closing expenses which will lead -- which will yield more leverage opportunity in the fourth quarter than the third.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dick to review the merchandise highlights in the quarter.
Thanks Lauren.
Good morning everyone and let me add my thanks to everyone on the team at Foot Locker Inc.
It was an outstanding team effort that led to the results Lauren just detailed.
I'll start my remarks with our families of business.
Footwear was once again our strongest area with a comp gain in the high-single digits while apparel and accessories were down mid-single digits.
Within footwear basketball continued to be the leader with a gain in the teens.
We had good strength in our running business as well which is -- was also up in the teens with very strong double-digit growth internationally where running is our biggest category and mid-single-digit growth in the U.S.
In basketball and I know I'm starting to sound like a broken record on these calls but Jordan continues to be the strongest area of the category which fortunately has many others strengths as well.
Jordan was strong across all its components.
The Jordan player shoes including CP and Melo had solid sell-throughs as did some of the classic off-court styles such as the True Flight and the Flight Future.
And of course the Jordan Retro releases continue to drive sales and traffic into our stores.
Our key player shoes were another bright spot in basketball with gains in Lebron Kobe and KD.
While traditional mid- and high-top silhouettes were strong some of the strength in basketball also relates to the proliferation of low-cut styles within all of those player franchises.
These shoes are categorized as basketball although a year ago the same customer may have been buying a running shoe since he's not necessarily buying the shoes to play basketball or run in.
It's also about the look.
In fact I think John here with this Kobe Phenomenons is leading that fashion trend.
Turning to running.
Max Air from Nike with models such as the Max 90 the Thea for women and Finger Trap Max was a consistent winner across our banners and geographies.
The Roshe Run has also become a global success producing significant gains in dollars and units.
The ZX Flux from adidas was certainly a popular choice in running especially in Europe but also in the U.S.
where we expect it to continue to build.
We're also seeing gains out of New Balance particularly in the 574 program.
Within lifestyle footwear the Air Force 1 franchise continues to perform well as do classic styles in PUMA and Vans.
Switching over to apparel.
Our U.S.
Locker division which includes Foot Locker Kids Foot Locker Lady Foot Locker and Footaction generated a comparable sales gain in the mid-single digits.
The improvement was led by branded tank tops t-shirts shorts and hats that all coordinated with footwear.
Socks continue to sell well especially Nike multipacks stamps and NBA socks which are offsetting a slowdown in Elite Socks.
The areas of the biggest apparel challenge were Foot Locker Europe with a double-digit decline; and Champs Sports which was down mid-single digits.
Both divisions were impacted by a fashion shift away from certain programs that had helped drive their results in the past and both divisions are working diligently to adjust their apparel assortments and work with our key vendors to revitalize and refresh programs that we believe will resonate with our customers in the future.
In the case of Foot Locker Europe that division successfully drove a strong double-digit footwear gain to produce the solid mid-single-digit overall comp gain that Lauren mentioned.
Champs Sports on the other hand had strong footwear sales in the quarter.
But with apparel being a more important component of their total merchandise assortment it wasn't sufficient to produce an overall comp gain.
That said Champs Sports remains a very productive chain and a strong profit producer for our company.
We've had a great deal of success differentiating our banners over the past few years.
Champs has been a leader in that effort and has had many quarters of double-digit comp gains during that time.
With additional remodels which are outperforming the balance of the chain enhanced vendor partnerships and select assortment and presentation changes we believe that we have the capability for Champs Sports to get back to be a strong contributor to our comp growth and increase its profits to even higher levels.
Before I turn the call over to Ken I'd like to conclude my remarks by touching on our women's business.
We are all very pleased to be reporting the high-mid-single-digit comp gain that the Lady Foot Locker chain which includes our 9 SIX -- at the Lady Foot Locker chain which includes the 9 SIX:02 doors.
Our women's business in fact was up in most of the banners we sell in this product.
Within the Lady Foot Locker division itself footwear was up mid-singles while apparel was up in the teens.
In short the customers are finding us.
They like the new performance-oriented assortments we offer in both SIX:02 and most Lady Foot Locker stores and we're clearly on the right track.
We're encouraged enough by our test results so far and the comp trends to expand our tests and remodels to drive the turnaround in this business.
However we still need a bit more time to finalize the model before we commit to a large-scale rollout plan.
We'll be sure to keep you updated as our plans solidify over the coming months.
Anything you'd like to add on the women's business Ken? Yes Dick I would.
But first let me add my thanks to all our associates for producing the outstanding results we're privileged to be reporting today and let me also thank all of you who are participating on the call this morning.
I really appreciate the confidence and support you all give us whether it's in analyzing and writing about the Foot Locker story or investing directly in our company.
Thank you all very much.
In terms of our women's business I recently described the status as being in a green fuzz stage.
When you plant a lawn you go from seeing a barren-looking patch of ground which is that discomfort thing that happens when you fire your previous customers to seeing a few green shoots which is what happens when your new target customer first starts to find your new assortment.
At the green fuzz stage you can finally begin to see that you're actually going to get a full lawn but you have to keep watering and fertilizing it diligently to make it healthy and sustainable.
We can't let the football team run around on it quite yet.
The comp gain we achieved at Lady Foot Locker in the second quarter was a beautiful thing and was especially gratifying for the team that's been working so hard to make our women's business a success we believe it will be.
However we're still in the nurture and development stage and the team is doing a great job.
I give them all the credit in the world.
Turning to the overall business as Lauren and Dick have described the momentum we've built remains intact.
We've achieved 18 consecutive quarters of meaningful sales and profit growth and the team continues to set records in the key financial and operating metrics we track.
The even better news is that we continue to have multiple opportunities to improve our business even further.
We have many strengths upon which we're building including the store banner.com business which is up more than 40% year-to-date; the children's business which continues to grow at a double-digit pace; strong vendor relationships as seen in the variety of shop-in-shop partnerships we're rolling out or testing and in the very significant portion of exclusive product in our assortments; our geographic diversity which allows us to spot capitalize on and even develop trends around the world; our multiple banners which in the U.S.
have already allowed us to broaden our customer set through thoughtful differentiation and which is the same playbook we're drawing from in Germany with the Runners Point Sidestep and Foot Locker banners; our creative marketing programs which continue to reach millions of customers and bring fun and humor to our business and our strong capital structure which allows us to invest in the business return cash to our shareholders and retain our financial stability and flexibility.
I could go on with examples of initiatives that we're working on that are already contributing to our strong results.
Apparel is a growth opportunity as we expected that's taking longer to gain consistent traction.
We're working hard with our key brands to build on the programs that have been successful get other important programs back on track and develop new programs with vendors big and small.
We plan to capitalize on the exciting store environments we're creating through our extensive remodel initiatives.
For example we're working closely with Nike on Jordan and women's apparel and closely with Under Armour as we're exploring opportunities to bolster both of our businesses.
We're also continuing to push our private brands such as Sneaker Freak Champs Sports Gear and Actra to become even more relevant parts of our assortments.
And finally we're driving our apparel results in those banners in which apparel was previously underpenetrated particularly in kids and women's.
Overall we still believe in our ability to boost our apparel penetration over time back closer to the 30% level it was a decade ago.
I touched briefly before on our remodel program which overall continues to exceed our expectations.
Let me give you a few statistics.
We remodeled almost 100 stores in the second quarter the most of any quarter so far and doubled the number in the first quarter.
The second quarter sandwiched as it is between Easter and back-to-school gives us the largest window to let our excellent construction teams work their magic on the stores.
We're on a planned pace to have remodeled 20% of the Foot Locker stores in the U.S.
and close to 30% of the Champ Stores by yearend.
At the same time we're testing additional Footaction remodel locations as Dick mentioned and testing more SIX:02 stores and rolling out more Bridgewater format remodels in Lady Foot Locker.
Meanwhile we're testing our remodel formats in international markets as well as expanding banners and shop-in-shop concepts there.
For example we have 17 Kids Foot Locker stores outside the U.S.
as well as 16 House of Hoops shops in 10 other countries around the globe.
We're being thoughtful as we execute all of these remodel programs both in the U.S.
and internationally making adjustments where appropriate to maximize their potential.
These fresh remodels are an important element along with other factors such as strong marketing programs and of course a great pipeline of products from our world-class vendor partners.
That has been -- that has contributed to our ability to buck the declining traffic trends in much of retail.
Most of our banners in fact have experienced increased traffic this year to last.
In Footwear both units and average selling prices were up in the second quarter.
We're working hard to be able to say the same thing about apparel in the future.
With that let me just sum it up by saying again that I'm extremely proud of the team at Foot Locker which produced these outstanding results.
At the same time that the team is delivering record results like this we're planning for the future not just by having thoughtful operating strategies and initiatives to build the business but also by developing leaders across the organization.
In fact just last week we had the entire senior management team from around the globe together in New York to test drive a new leadership model that we developed specifically for Foot Locker.
It's a powerful model which can be applied throughout all layers of the store and support organizations and which I believe can help us take full advantage of all the opportunities the company has in the near intermediate and longer terms to reach even greater heights of financial and operating performance in the future.
Thank you all very much.
Let's get to the questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mitch Kummetz from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was just hoping to get even more color on the women's business.
I mean great performance in the quarter both footwear and apparel.
How much of that was the Bridgewater rollout? I mean where are you guys in that process? Just any more color on this sequential improvement in women's would be very helpful.
We've said next to -- this is Dick by the way.
We've got 9 SIX:02s we've got about 60 doors that are Bridgewater.
Most of that Bridgewater work happened very -- at the very end of Q2 so a lot of this success in the quarter was driven by the big stores before the Bridgewater remodel.
So again we continue to test and develop the plan and we're feeling good about the footwear and apparel and accessories business across our women's chain.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe on the margins Lauren could you just give us a little more detail? I mean obviously you did really well both gross margin SG&amp;A in the quarter.
Just kind of run through the puts and takes on gross margin in terms of the basis point impact on the quarter.
Yes again it was 80 basis points of improvement that really came from leveraging the fixed occupancy and buying cost elements.
We lowered markdowns in the quarter.
And as we've described before that helps us offset the IMU pressure that is ongoing primarily from a mix of vendor and category performance.
So the underlying merchandise margins ended up flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know you said more margin or more margin opportunity I think in Q4 than in Q3.
Is there any way you can just kind of talk about those puts and takes as they -- you expect them to flow over the balance of the year? Yes you're correct Mitch.
So as we're looking at the back half Q3 has some timing issues in it right of the CCS inventory that we're working our way through and that's putting the additional pressure on merchandise margins.
And then in Q3 in particular as we've described some of the marketing campaigns for back-to-school are more skewed towards Q3 than early -- than late Q2 as they were last year.
And we've got a bit more store closing costs so that's going to be in Q3.
Our next question comes from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Lauren just one more quick follow-up just for our models on the liquidation of the CCS merchandise this fall.
I think that that's finalizing this fall so maybe a temporary headwind to gross margins but could you tell us when that CCS drag started on the merch margins for you guys? Well it really started with the announcement that we were going to transition that business to Eastbay so that was in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just talk -- Ken would you be able to talk us a little bit through the apparel trends at Champs? I felt like you were getting pretty comfortable with the overall shift to branded apparel.
And then can you help us think about the crosscurrents that are there today and if there's any -- and maybe some of the details on the strategy in the back half as well as whether -- you've obviously got crosscurrents from a lift from remodeling these stores but it sounds like across several of the banners a drag from the apparel program.
Can you help us try to sort out how you look at those heading into the second half? Yes Champs has a higher penetration of apparel as Dick mentioned.
One of the challenges is -- challenges are that some of the larger programs that they've had in the past have not been as productive for example the licensed business has been more challenging.
They had a pretty good-sized license business.
We are rightsizing that and focusing them more on performance and training.
Some of the brands that they've had if they have some ups and downs and we're balancing those out and the brands are working hard to update what they have.
So because of some of the shifts have more of a negative impact on them than the other brands that said we've got increases in most of our banners in apparel and so we think based upon the work we're doing at Champs is a shift from some of the down-trending elements into these up-trending elements.
And as we remodel and update the stores which are performing better than the chain we will see the improvement in Champs along with the continued improvement in the other divisions.
Research Division</strong> So is it safe to assume that the remodeled Champs are still in positive territory even though we've got some temporary apparel stuff to work through here? Yes overall they are.
Like anything else there's an outlier on both sides.
Our next question comes from Eric Tracy from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'd like to -- for Ken for you on Europe.
It looks like footwear up double digits.
We're in the early stages I think on sort of how that product is being seeded in the market.
Maybe just talk to thoughts there relative to the overall macro environment.
And it looks like stepping up the door count I'm assuming that's mostly Europe is that core Foot Locker doors? Is that Runners Point? Maybe just some color on Europe today.
Yes.
Well we feel very good about Europe.
In fact we just came back from a board meeting there and let the board see what is happening there and why we feel bullish on it.
As Lauren said all of the countries are positive.
That doesn't mean that the economies are great in Europe.
There are still challenges some of which we've now anniversary-ed but we've learned and have developed our assortments to better fit the environment.
We continue to see some strength in running and we've had some very good results on items like the ZX from Adi and so we feel good about that.
We've also seen a growth in basketball and so we're working with Nike on their product in basketball and what we're doing there.
We've opened up a number of House of Hoops and that business continues to grow.
We're getting -- working on the apparel again a bigger apparel concentration in Europe and so they were impacted more on some of the shifts in apparel.
We think that working with the vendors we're going to be in a better position there.
Our expansion because of just the timing we have -- we are continuing to expand Foot Lockers in underpenetrated markets and where we see opportunities.
And we are also stepping up some of the Foot Lockers by putting in things like House of Hoops adding Kids Foot Lockers in markets and so we're developing there.
We also had in the pipeline some Runners Point and Sidestep stores and so we continue to build those.
We are at this time primarily doing that in Germany but we see at some point in the foreseeable future the ability to expand Sidestep and Runners Point outside of the German market.
We're also in the test mode with the remodels in Europe.
We've got a handful of Willowbrooks that we're making sure that the floor fixtures are dimensionalized appropriately because a lot of the stores have a smaller selling floor than they do in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> So real quick Dick on that to follow could you say what percentage is sort of being in the remodel of those European doors? Yes.
We're just very much in the test on this.
So we've got -- it's a small number.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then if I could switch gears and I'm going to try to delicately ask this question.
Again I don't want you to speculate by any means but this is important out there.
Saw other reports of what's going on with the potential switch here for KD Nike Under Armour maybe just walk us through the implications near term and long term in your view to Foot Locker brand.
I will tell you again we don't comment on rumors and I don't -- you probably know more than I do on what's happening there so that's why we shouldn't comment.
That said we have a very strong set of vendors that have very good portfolios and work hard to make sure that we're positioned properly -- they're positioned properly and we're positioned properly with them.
I think that we will have and our vendors will have a strong portfolio of players and there possibly could be some very short-term disruption.
I don't know if there was.
But that said I believe -- we're working with the vendors and they're working very very hard to make sure that we offer the best product from the best players all the time.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to gross margins quickly.
From the sounds of it Lauren I think you just reiterated the guidance of 30 to 50 bps for the year although you guys have outperformed that kind of year-to-date.
Is there anything that we should be thinking about in the second half that is mix-related or any IMU pressure that could potentially pop up in 3Q or 4Q that was not seen in the first or second quarter? On the expectation line IMU markdown the strategy remains the same that we still see the IMU pressure coming from just the mix vendor in category trends.
But we feel good about our ability to control the promotional cadence to offset that right as we work to get better assortments et cetera.
It helps us with the markdowns.
So the only new element if you will is the clearance that we need to get through with our CCS products.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just -- if you can just give us an update on Eastbay.
Obviously CCS is getting added into that online business and the banners are what's seeing the strong growth.
Just how should we think about how you're approaching kind of the marketing angle for Eastbay? What's kind of the latest update from a team sports standpoint? I thought Eastbay was going to really be the launching pad for you guys to get more aggressive on that front.
Just be helpful -- any color would be helpful.
Yes we continue to feel good about Eastbay.
It continues to run ahead.
We put it as part of overall dot-com.
But Eastbay is a very important brand to the young elite athlete.
And we believe through the marketing of that both in terms of online and through the catalog the catalog still shows up in all Locker Rooms that it's going to be a driving business.
We just are coming out with a new program that highlights some of the elite high schools and how those high schools train and it's in the online site.
And I'll tell you what it's impressive.
I'm not sure I could make a team in today's day and age but it really talks to that young kid.
So we're expanding there.
We also are expanding our women's our girls business through Eastbay and we're seeing some good success there in sports like basketball and volleyball field hockey.
We're expanding in sports like lacrosse.
So Eastbay the site continues to be a strong and important part of our business.
We are having good growth in our team sports.
The challenge with team sports is as we expand to other markets it -- we give up Nexus and so it's a trade-off between what we do online and what we do in team sports.
We want to have a place -- a selling organization in place to offset that.
We have seen that when we put that in place we really haven't had a big impact on the sales of Eastbay online in those markets.
The third element of Eastbay and one that we just started as we said in the beginning -- or in the middle of this quarter is our new Eastbay Performance Zone in Champs.
We've gotten 4 stores in Wisconsin Milwaukee California and Florida and they're off to a very good start receiving great customer and associate reaction.
We've used them for team selling events.
And I believe taking that idea to a -- to the market where you take a virtual store and put it in a real store and kids can try on the shoes and see all the different colors that it's -- that's going to be a game-changer for Eastbay too.
So we feel good about Eastbay.
We've got what you would consider the traditional initiatives and we continue to update those the team sports and sales and now the Eastbay Performance Zone in Champs that will continue to step it up.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly there has been maybe a surprising shift away from a trend standpoint of some of the apparel products.
What is it that gives you the confidence in terms of what you're seeing from a vendor pipeline or what the customers are telling you that gives you the confidence that the footwear aspect will continue to see this type of strength throughout the balance of the year? Well we continue to see great product coming down the pipeline Paul from all of our vendors both on the footwear and apparel side.
I think as Ken mentioned a little bit earlier as we balance some of the apparel categories they're really there to help us support our footwear sales.
And we want to sell more apparel because we believe it helps us drive footwear sales.
But as we look forward from our vendors both on the apparel pipeline and the footwear pipeline we see a lot of innovation we see a lot of freshness and newness from a variety of suppliers.
So we have the confidence that both the footwear trend is going to -- we're going to continue to roll in footwear and that the apparel will support that.
Our next question comes from Robert Ohmes from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dick I was hoping to just follow up on your vendor support commentary.
Can you give us -- I know you can't give us a lot of detail for competitive reasons.
But could you maybe give us a little more help as you look at the basketball trend and you look at the launch schedule through holiday of this year and into early spring next year how you feel about it and maybe a little color on that on the basketball side? And then could you also maybe give us a little more detail on -- I understand that basketball may be taking some share from running.
But if you look at running by itself within your business are there any positives to call out there or things that can keep the running and your casual footwear business comping as you move against some tougher comparisons this year? Yes.
I'll start with the basketball and the launch question Robbie.
And launch is a part of our business but our job is to really grow our core business as well as working with our vendors to make sure that we've got launch increases.
Now we've said many times that the launch calendar is what it is.
It flexes by a week here and maybe a different player whatever it happens to be.
But we work closely with our vendors to make sure that the launch cadence is supportive of what we need to do from a business perspective and matches what they need to do.
So I'm pleased with where we're at from a launch perspective but I'm really pleased with where we're at from a core business perspective and that goes to the running versus basketball that you talked about.
And we've called out the ZX Flux which the team over in Europe has really been having a nice run with.
We're bringing that into the U.S.
The Roshe Run which is a casual shoe obviously but categorized when we look at running that continues to be strong.
We still sell an awful lot of Free.
The Flyknit program from Nike continues to be strong.
Our smaller technical brands continue to have some strength.
And we look at the fall marathon season and believe that they'll continue to be strong in our business.
So the balance between basketball and running we look at running as being able to continue to sustain comps.
And probably if you look at it across all of the footwear categories casual is probably the one that's suffering a little bit.
When you look at slides and sandals they seem to be dropping off a bit.
That being said we've got some mix changes with our vulcanized product between Converse and Vans and some of the other vendors.
So the balance feels pretty good Robbie.
If we can get some retro trending and some casual pieces to work it looks even better.
Our next question comes from Matthew McClintock from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering -- you gave some really good color on Europe earlier to Eric and I was just wondering if you could elaborate on that specific to the e-commerce business.
How do you think about that business now that you had it for over a year? Are the growth rates in that business similar to what you're seeing in your dot-com banners here in the U.S.? And are there any differences between how you're thinking about that business in Europe versus thinking about the business in the U.S.? Yes we feel very good about the dot-com business in Europe and it's one of the strengths that we've got with the Runners Point the Tredex.
But we had been developing a good FootLocker.com business and we're now in 9 countries specifically but we got a .eu that's across all of -- or most of Europe.
And so that business actually has been growing much faster than the dot-com business in the States but it's a much smaller business smaller penetration.
But we're seeing good acceptance and we are making the investment in many of the things that we've got in The States in terms of the site the energy of that in terms of delivery options.
You can actually take more ways -- means of payment in Europe than we can in the States because they have more means of payments.
So dot-com in Europe that's -- it's a small business now but it's a very fast-growing business and one that we see will become a much more significant part of their portfolio.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> We're hearing from a large number of retailers that this is not a good denim year but an active wear year.
Could you discuss how this pattern is influencing your business? You've indicated Champs is having difficulty with licensing but I'm sure that it's a big part of what's happening positively with Lady Foot Locker.
And relatedly was there a chance that with Champs you're a little late in recognizing the development? Yes.
I think the trend -- what you're hearing from are mainly the women's retailers because the men's retailers have not changed as much although there are some trends that we're seeing for example in the type of shorts that a guy wore this summer.
And -- but in women's you see a lot more women who are wearing tights and exercise pants and exercise tops around and there's a benefit there.
I think that there's a fashion element of that but there's also an element that women are just working out more and so they're wearing it more and they say "Okay I'm not going to go to my workout " then change and then go to Starbucks or -- and the grocery store.
"I'm going to wear my stuff that I worked out in to Starbucks.
I'm going to go to Starbucks and then I'm going to go work out." So they just find it more convenient and it's gotten a better look and fashionable so she can do that.
So there's some impact but I think it's a trend versus cycle that there is a trend that women will be wearing more of this in the future than they have in the past on a continual basis.
Research Division</strong> And what about the men's side? I mean license weakened but what are you seeing that's replacing it going forward at Champs? Well the actual performance where we see is the strengthening business.
More guys are wearing that.
Literally coming back on the plane yesterday from Europe I'd say half of the guys were wearing performance tops.
There weren't a whole lot wearing -- even with the World Cup here wearing World Cup tops.
You thought some of the tourists might have been bringing that back.
The -- so that was one.
We probably stayed a little bit too long at the party with the size of our license business.
There's still a license business out there it's just not quite as big and we're seeing more performance.
We're also seeing from the -- some shifts in some of the fashion that guys are wearing in terms of the type of shorts or type of fleece bottom they're wearing and we're making adjustments.
Some of that is coming from Europe some of that is U.S.-specific.
But as Dick said other change where they weren't just depending on some of the stuff historically they're actually seeing some pretty good business.
Research Division</strong> The footwear business is strong overall -- pretty much overall you've cited certain weaknesses.
But included in the weakness you said casual shoes and I guess Roshe is in your casual segment and yet performing well.
Could you give us a sense of how Roshe is being received? You said it's doing well in Europe.
Is it influencing the thought process and the fashion sense overall? Well one of the things I think that's important is we said Roshe is doing well and it's doing well everywhere and it's a great shoe.
And the ZX is bigger in Europe.
They're just now coming to the States.
We think that will do well.
What's happening is displacing some of the older casual or lifestyle shoes what the industry calls classics.
And so instead of buying an older-type sneaker people are buying Roshe.
I don't know if you want to add something Dick? And the thing about Roshe is that they're at a price point that is very accessible so they may buy 2 or 3 different colors in Roshe so that they can hook up with different things.
So it's a very positive silhouette around the globe for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
You have a lot of stamina Ken.
You sustained 4.5 years of growth.
Of course I know it's with a terrific team but that's overall to the credit of Foot Locker.
Our next question comes from Taposh Bari from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So one quick follow-up for Lauren and then a question.
The margin guidance that you gave on gross margin and SG&amp;A is that for the full year or is that for the rest of the year? That's for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay so effectively the second half of the year? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a broader question just on your operating margins which are obviously a very good quarter very good last 12-month performance record highs.
Can you just remind us I know you haven't set a new goal of where your margins could or should be but can you just remind us of the biggest buckets where you have either the greatest visibility and/or the most room to improve? I know there are many but I'd love to hear the ones where you see the greatest convictions.
We have many things that are opportunities in front of us near term leading to long term as Ken described in his comments during the call.
And all of those add up to increased productivity whether it's increases sales per square foot.
And when you're doing that that's driving the margin metrics.
So we manage that and we pursue the gross margin opportunities that we have with investments such as the allocation system right which for us has yet to come online.
We begin the process of bringing it online here in the fall.
And what that tool does to spend a minute on it that it lets us improve getting the right product to the right place the right time all of those right which support greater top line and better margins because you're doing less promoting to correct the places where you sent it and shouldn't have right? So these are the things that long term will help us and make us very -- feel very good about achieving our objectives on the margins.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions had been answered but I wondered if you could just spend a few minutes telling us about your longer-term outlook and strategy for Europe.
Nike has been very vocal I think about their efforts for more category offense in the region.
I know you mentioned a few things on the call today with regards to House of Hoops in Europe as well.
But overall what do you see as the ultimate goal for Europe Foot Locker? Kate as Ken mentioned we've got the opportunity to expand our Foot Locker base in underpenetrated countries.
We see the category offense that Nike's pushing as we talked about running as the primary category -- or the lead category I should say in Western Europe.
But the team over there is working to grow basketball as a significant part of the business as well.
And then the apparel piece is one that I talked about earlier that we're working hard at and we think that there are some opportunities.
Then when we get into the differentiation of our banners with Sidestep and Runners Point sharing space with Foot Locker in Germany we believe that once we get those banners clearly defined and differentiated we will be able to test them going outside of Germany and that was one of the rationales behind the acquisition.
So category offense will play strong expansion in underpenetrated countries ability to differentiate the banners and test that and then the dot-com business that Ken just talked about.
So we see opportunities out in Western Europe.
Our next question comes from Jay Sole from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Again you made a nice call-out about your Asia team and I know it's small roughly 90 stores of 3 500 in the chain.
But can you talk about -- since you talked about Europe can you talk about the potential in Asia? Are there any possibilities of increasing the store count there? Do you see a long-term opportunity that maybe we haven't talked about so much on previous calls? Well we constantly look and evaluate the opportunities in markets around the world.
And at the current time we don't see an opportunity but we've got to be open to look and listen and we've got a strong team in Australia New Zealand we've got a good franchise in Korea.
And so that's our effort in the Asian market but we have not announced or have any plans for expanding beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Lauren the growth in the first half of the year in terms of earnings per share has been like 28% terrific growth.
The guidance for the year is double-digit.
The market is looking for 11% growth -- EPS growth I mean in the second half of the year.
Can you maybe just define what double-digit means a little bit more if possible? Is it closer to what is kind of already in the consensus number? Or is it closer to maybe what you've done in the first half of the year? We're not going to go beyond double-digits.
We're not giving guidance beyond double-digits.
Our next question comes from Sam Poser from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
Can you be specific on like how -- what the marketing shift was between Q2 and Q3 or is going to be between Q2 and Q3? It's about $2.5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dick when you look at the European -- the international business and the challenge in apparel we saw some data that was saying that a little -- that the licensed apparel for the World Cup did exceptionally well.
Were you involved in that business either here or over there? And did that -- what happened with that? Yes we had just a thimble full of World Cup product around the fleet Sam.
And where we had it it worked well.
Like any event merchandise when the event is over the merchandise sales are over and we got to move on.
So it certainly was not impactful to the business.
In the specific stores that we featured it the specific countries that ended up having more success we sold the product that we had but it was not a big investment or a big position during the World Cup.
Research Division</strong> Would that -- with the new allocation system going in 4 years from now let's say would that end up being something that you could be more aggressive with having more information and so on and being able to allocate it better? Yes theoretically it could be a little bit bigger Sam.
But again the event stuff drives right up to the date of event and then it drops off dramatically.
And with the World Cup it drops off dramatically as your team gets knocked out in the knockout rounds.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then lastly on -- you commented -- well on the Roshe you commented on the 574.
Are you seeing other sort of that retro running either from some of the ASICS products Brooks and others? I mean are you seeing that also start to gain some momentum? Yes I think the ZX Flux is a great example.
I mean that's got a lot of Heritage running characteristics in it and we're seeing that start to pick up.
The team in Europe is certainly getting an awful lot of Heritage running think about a silhouette like the Max 90 that we talked about called out earlier one of the classic Heritage running silhouettes.
Research Division</strong> And does that -- are you seeing a shift in that Heritage product away from very few people who shop at Foot Locker running the shoes so they're buying it as fashion.
Are you seeing that sort of that fashion look going from that more bright color performance into that more classic styling in a general sense? Well the color is important and whether it's a flash of color or a wild vibrant color or it's the OG [ph] color ways in some of the Heritage running.
There's always the necessity for color and it just varies by shade I think Sam.
Research Division</strong> I guess I mean from that real bright flashy stuff that was out over the last year or so.
Yes I think there's a bit of a tone down from what it was with the old Brooks but that's part of just the style trend.
And actually the nice thing is that now they get a flash or one splash of color and so it's blue and the other one they had a whole bunch of colors.
Now they've got to buy some red because they're wearing red.
So they got to buy another shoe which is to Dick's point about you seeing people buying a couple of different shoes in the same style so that they can hook up better.
Our last question comes from Chris Svezia from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So first question not to beat a dead horse here but just on the apparel piece particularly in Europe maybe I missed it but can you just explain what the specific issue is? Is it private label versus branded? I mean what it is and what the timing is potentially on maybe seeing some light at the end of the tunnel in that business in Europe? Yes so some of it is a mixed situation Chris but some of it is just some key silhouettes that have been very successful that have shifted a bit.
There's a movement to bottoms that the team is on top of so we expect to see some good things in Q3.
Will that be enough to get the business on the plus side? Too early to tell yet.
There's been a little bit of a change from a graphic tee perspective and the graphics have changed a bit on the tables.
So it's -- I think private label versus branded getting that mix right and getting the silhouettes right we had a bit of a miss on a short that the finish the fabrication and the look the style was a little bit off from what the customer wants.
So those things little things that add up to make a miss.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say Dick that it gets less bad hopefully in the back half of the year based on some of the changes that you're making or you don't anticipate any improvement? Well we certainly haven't just been there and seen where the assortment is in back-to-school.
I'm expecting to see some improvement in Europe's apparel number.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lauren just on the merchandise allocation system when exactly does it go in again? You said in the fall and I assume it has absolutely no benefit for this year but in theory that should help offset the pressure [indiscernible].
Is that fair to say going to next year? We'll begin to bring categories onto the tool here in the fall so over Q3 Q4.
And you're right that the longer it's in the more benefit we get because it influences product that sometimes that's the right order.
So the benefits grow with time.
And it's a learning system so as it learns and develops it gets better.
But we literally in the next couple of weeks will start our testing but it's a phased rollout.
We're not going to put everything at risk as we introduce the new system.
You guys know me well enough to know I have a tendency to -- like to do things thoughtfully incrementally but we keep doing them we keep moving forward and so far it's working.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay and that certainly showed in the results.
The last question I've had -- or I have here is just for the third quarter just for -- when you think about gross margin does the pressure from CCS which I assume is small but the liquidations will be significant does that prevent you based on the mid-single-digit comp from showing any gross margin improvement or you should still see gross margin improvement based on all the other drivers to the business? Yes.
So factoring in CCS we are looking for the 20 to 40 over the back half.
We said there was more leverage opportunity in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it doesn't prevent you from showing some improvement in gross margin in the third quarter.
Yes it just makes it tougher because that's when the liquidation is.
That's all we have time for now.
Thanks again for your participation on today's call.
We look forward to having you join us on our next call which we anticipate will take place at 9:00 a.m.
on Friday November 21 following the release of our third quarter and year-to-date earnings earlier that morning.
Thanks again and goodbye.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Foot Locker's Third Quarter Financial Results for 2015 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views for future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker's Inc.
most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Thank you Chris [ph] and welcome to Foot Locker Inc.'s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As reported earlier this morning Foot Locker Inc.
sustained its operating momentum in the third quarter by posting an 8.7% comparable sale gain.
Non-GAAP net income was $141 million equating to earnings of an even one dollar per share a 20% increase over the $0.83 per share the company earned in the same quarter last year.
Included in our GAAP results this quarter was a $100 million pre-tax charge related to pension plan litigation.
Including this expense which was $61 million after-tax or $0.43 per share our GAAP EPS was $0.57 in the third quarter.
In September the U.S.
District Court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs in this case which was initiated in 2007.
The case relates to the communications to plan participants 20 years ago around changes to the benefits under Woolworths pension plan in 1996.
As noted in our press release of September 30 the company disagrees with the court's decision and has filed a notice of appeal.
Lauren will provide some context to the case a bit later but because this litigation is pending we will not be able to provide any additional information about the case in response to questions after our prepared remarks.
A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in the press release issued earlier today.
For the first nine months of the year the company has generated record net income of $440 million - $444 million or $3.14 per share on a non-GAAP basis.
This EPS figure is 22% higher than the $2.58 per share earned in the first three quarters of 2014.
Lauren Peters Foot Locker's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dick Johnson our President and Chief Executive Officer are with me here this morning and will now provide the details of our operating performance during the third quarter.
Lauren? Thank you John and let me thank all of you for joining us on our call this morning in New York.
We are very pleased to be reporting such strong sales and earnings for our third quarter.
As we continue to build on our successful model of delivering to our customers the most innovative athletically-inspired footwear and apparel in the market.
Our success has been remarkably consistent across multiple geographies banners families of business and product categories.
We drove strong top and bottom line performance in both our stores and digital segments.
Demonstrating once again the importance of connecting with and serving our customers however they choose to shop.
As mentioned during our previous call in August the back-to-school season shifted later this year.
Our comps were running at mid-single digits at the time of our call which is where August landed in total.
As many kids held back shopping until later in the season our September sales accelerated nicely to low double-digits and are momentum carried over into October which increased just shy of double-digits.
We've continued to drive solid comparable sales gains since then with our November and month-to-date cop gains towards the high end of mid-single digits.
Let's start our review of the third quarter with our store segment which in total posted an 8% comparable sales increase.
The gains were led by Foot Locker Europe which generated an outstanding increase in the high teens.
Foot Locker Europe generated double-digit gains in almost all countries and in all major categories including men's women's and kids footwear apparel and accessories and in running basketball and classic styles.
Runners [indiscernible] and sidestep however did not participate in the strength experience by Foot Locker in Europe with comp sales declining low double digits.
Dick will provide more color on the dynamics behind this result during his comments.
The rest of our international business was strong with a high single digit come again in Canada and yet an even stronger result in Asia-Pacific where comp sales increased low teens.
Our domestic stores executed very well too with Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker both up high single digit.
Champs sports and Lady Foot Locker 602 were both up low single digits.
While Footaction ended the quarter with a slight comp decline.
Footaction actually posted a mid-single-digit overall sales increase but its comp and traffic were negatively impacted by some big stores that were temporarily closed for remodeling.
Footaction as of the same early stage of remodeling its store fleets that the Foot Locker and Champs sports banners were a couple of years ago but not enough remodeled scores experiencing a sales lift to compensate for several weeks that certain key stores start remodeling.
Those Footaction stores that have been remodeled are in fact doing quite well.
Our direct to customer segment posted another fine performance in the third quarter with an overall comparable sales gain of 13.4% Eastbay was up mid-single digits while our domestic store banner.com businesses collectively increased almost 30%.
Our international direct businesses which are much smaller than the U.S.
were also up close to 30% with strong gains in Foot Locker Europe and Canada partially offset by weakness in runners client.
Direct to customer sales increased to 12.4% of total sales up from 12.1% a year ago.
Overall footwear continued to be our strongest category posting another low double-digit sales increase while apparel maintained its pace of the mid-single-digit sales increase partially offset by certain accessory categories which continued to face difficult comps.
Within footwear running was the strongest category with a mid-teens gain while basketball was up mid-single digits.
The other leg of my footwear stool including boots and classics was also very strong.
Dick will provide more details about all of these categories in a few minutes.
Comparable sales of men's and women's footwear were both up high single digits and kids footwear sales increased in the teens.
Similar to the prior quarters of 2015 reported sales were reduced by about $90 million in Q3 due to the impact of weaker FX rates this year compared to rates in effect a year ago.
Thus our 8.9% total sales gain translated into a reported sales increase of 3.6%.
Our strong third quarter sales results were joined by a strong gross margin performance with the rate improving 60 basis points to 33.8% of sales from 33.2% a year ago.
Of note this quarter was the first in a long time that our initial market rate did not decline as spender and category mix have stabilized.
Merchandise margin improved about 70 basis points on a constant currency basis.
A bit of the gain related to the final liquidation of CCS inventory in our results last year although the bigger contributor was an incrementally lower markdown rate.
Fixed cost leverage also contributed 10 basis points to our improved gross margin rate while FX rates took away 20 basis points.
Effectively leveraging our shared service model for most support functions we continue to be very disciplined in managing our expenses.
Helped by FX our reported SG&amp;A dollars were again down slightly in the quarter with our expense rate improving 80 basis points to 19.6% of sales from 20.4% last year.
Our income tax expense rate landed better than planned on a non-GAAP basis due primarily to releasing reserve in a jurisdiction where a statute of limitation expired.
On a GAAP basis our tax rate was lowered significantly due to the fact that the litigation charge reduced our U.S.
income where our tax rates are highest.
Our inventory continued to be very well positioned at the end of October with a year-over-year increase of just 0.9% compared to our 3.6% reported sales increase.
On a constant currency basis inventory was up 4.5% compared to our 8.9% sales increase.
Our inventory is very fresh heading into the holiday season and we are excited to get going on this year's best ever Week of Greatness that starts tomorrow.
We also maintained our balanced capital allocation strategy during the quarter.
First we invested $57 million of capital into our business bringing our total year-to-date capital expenditures to $173 million.
Second we paid another $0.25 dividend totaling $35 million.
And finally we spent just shy of $111 million to repurchase 1.56 million shares of our stock.
That brought our year-to-date total share repurchase to $316 million a reduction in shares outstanding of more than 3%.
And we did all of that while still ending the quarter with $878 million of balance sheet cash down a bit from a year ago.
The story with traffic this quarter was the same as last quarter with a modest decline in U.S.
traffic offsetting strong traffic trends internationally producing a small overall increase in traffic.
As mentioned in Q2 we believe that the different traffic patterns here and abroad relate to the significantly stronger dollar this year which has led in particular to less tourist traffic in the U.S.
Average selling prices continued to increase both in footwear and apparel.
Unit sales were also up in footwear but down in apparel as we continue to transition our assortments towards more premium styles.
Conversion also ticked up as the investments we are making in exciting store environments merchandise systems training programs for associates and really terrific marketing programs all have combined to increase the chances of our shoppers leaving our stores with a bag or two full of the innovative shoes and apparel that our vendors continue to deliver.
So as we head into the holidays we still see Q4 potentially shaping up as follows: a mid-single-digit comparable sales gain perhaps at the high end of that range.
30-40 basis points of improvement in both gross margin and SG&amp;A and a double-digit EPS gain.
Before I hand the call to Dick for a product and strategy review I want to put in perspective the litigation charge that John mentioned that the beginning of this call.
Most importantly I want to emphasize that we have a very strong balance sheet and a well-funded pension plan.
The company's reasonable estimate of the litigation expense is a range between $100 million and $200 million with no amount within that range more probable than any other.
In accordance with U.S.
GAAP therefore we recorded a $100 million accrual.
We believe our pension plan is sufficiently well-funded today to absorb a liability of $100 million or more without requiring any cash contributions by the company to the plan in the near term.
Thus discharge does not change our ability to invest in the business to reach the 2020 goals we laid out at the beginning of the year and to return cash to shareholders just as we intended to before this litigation charge.
Thanks Lauren.
That's a very important point to make as we focus on the future.
Good morning everyone.
We really appreciate your interest in our company which has now generated 23 consecutive quarters of meaningful sales and profit growth.
We've talked a lot over the last several years about how we have diversified the business.
The strength of our different banners and channels the global reach of our footprint strong businesses in men's women's and kids and the multiple legs to our product category store.
Basketball running and classic sneakers along with apparel.
This quarter and in fact the entire year to date represents a perfect illustration of how building that diversity has helped us sustain record-setting growth over multiple quarters and years.
True not every one of our initiatives has performed up to our expectations and I will touch on those.
But we have so many outstanding examples of success that I could easily fill up this entire call talking about them.
But I know you'll have plenty of questions so I'll make sure to leave the usual time for those at the end.
First Europe.
The Foot Locker banner there turned in an exceptional performance with strong double-digit gains in both running and basketball footwear as well as in classic sneakers.
Running was led by lifestyle products such as Huarache and Roshe and Nike and Max Air from Nike and ZX Flux from Adidas.
White Basketball was driven by Jordan.
Classic styles were highlighted by superstars in Stan Smiths from Audi and Air Force ones from Nike.
Boots led by Timberland were also up double-digit.
Apparel in Europe was even stronger than footwear with both Nike and Audi doing quite well along with our own private label business.
As proud as we are of the success Foot Locker is having in Europe right now we're certainly not satisfied.
First we are still below the peak productivity levels we reached before the great recession.
Second we believe that the systems remodeling and associate training initiatives we have put in place globally in the recent years can lift our European results to new record productivity levels in the future.
On top of that our Kids Foot Locker business in Europe is doing very well with growth opportunities both in terms of cap gains and adding productive new Kids Foot Locker stores.
Finally Foot Locker's online business in Europe is still quite under penetrated so as we enhance the digital connections with our customers there we see tremendous opportunity for even better performance.
Right now our runners point and sidestep banners are not participating in the momentum seen at Foot Locker.
We're still working through our market segmentation strategy in Germany.
The initial tests last year of that strategy which was to take Runners Point back to its roots of being all things running and positioning Sidestep as a true lifestyle banner were very encouraging.
However the athletic market in Germany has set it a bit reviewing in hindsight an overreliance on a few key styles that are no longer as relevant for those banners' consumers.
We still believe in our segmentation strategy but we have work to do to build enough diversity into that product assortment at both banners to ensure that we can respond to fashion shifts more nimbly than we have so far this year.
Now turning to the U.S.
our Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker banners both turned in excellent quarters.
Here's a perfect example of how the product diversity that we have developed really a focus on delivery the coolest premium sneakers to our customers across categories helps us ensure we can generate strong results despite fashion shifts that in the past may have caused our products to [indiscernible].
Because what led the performance this quarter was running court classics and boots.
We have developed a leadership position in lifestyle running in the U.S.
and in fact all of our markets including Max Air Roshe and Huarache from Nike ZX Flux from Adidas.
Meanwhile we continued to build bigger lifestyle programs with Puma New Balance Sockany and ASICS.
As in Europe exciting new executions of classic court shoes such as Air Force Ones Superstars and Jordans also performed very well in the U.S.
Recognizing that our boot business is more about fashion than the weather we brought in bigger quantities and more styles of Timberland and Nike boots for back-to-school and the results were terrific.
Finally let's not forget about the U.S.
basketball business because we have an increase there too.
Signature basketball witnessed a shift with gains in [indiscernible] at Nike and Steph Curry at Under Armour not to mention strong gains in Jordan creating a solid marquee basketball business overall despite what we believe is a temporary slowdown in sales of the more established player shoes.
Meanwhile lifestyle basketball styles sold very well and some of the performance business has also shifted into the court classic styles I just mentioned.
The end result of all the shifts in footwear in the U.S.
we believe is more balanced product portfolio and vendor mix.
It helps keep the legs of our product stool steady positioned for consistent sales growth.
Our kids business continues to perform very well not just in Kids Foot Locker but in virtually all our banners that sell children's product.
The merchandise highlights here were mostly the same as at the Big Brother Foot Locker banner as we capitalized on the same trends.
We also continue to open new Kids Foot Locker stores both in the U.S.
and overseas as we look to solidify our leadership position in kids in our key geographic markets.
Lauren mentioned a couple of reasons why Footaction's comp was down slightly.
What drove Footaction's total sales to actually be up mid-single digits was the opening of several new power stores this year such as the one in Del Amo Fashion Center south of L.A.
and of course the new flagship store on State Street in Chicago.
This exciting new Footaction store also includes a Nike Kicks lounge and a Flight 23 shop creating the premier Jordan brand experience.
Lady Foot Locker 602 produced a sixth consecutive comparable sales gain a solid achievement as we continue our work to develop 602 into our primary women's brand.
Just this week we are opening our 28th and 29th 602 stores and last week we conducted our second annual It's Your Time 602 6K race in Dallas a fun event that combined a competitive 6K race with special post-race style events.
Footwear was strong at Lady Foot Locker 602 led by several lifestyle running celebs.
The Nike Flyknit performed well as did the PUMA Creeper a good example of an active lifestyle fashion success story.
Apparel on the other hand was a bit challenging this quarter.
A nice pickup in Adi and Nike lifestyle apparel was not enough to offset declines in some of the more basic branded performance shorts and bras.
We're working with our key vendors all of whom have called out women's athletics apparel as an important focus for them to develop special programs and styles for our athletically active customers in 602.
In the meantime our women's business and our other banners continued to be strong with sales of women's footwear up low double-digits.
We have heightened our focus on the female uses for each banner a process we went through much earlier with our men's businesses leading to having more of the right product assortments for her in the different banners in which she chooses to shop.
Turning to our digital business it remains very robust and is on pace to be our next billion dollar business.
Better yet we have tremendous opportunity to accelerate growth especially in our international markets where our digital penetration remains low.
We have in place our new digital platform in Europe that we're just beginning to take full advantage of and a relatively new website gaining traction in Canada.
We have created excellent connections with are core customers online connections that start well in advance of their developing an intention to buy anything from us.
Whether that is our Foot Locker app with innovative shoe emojis the lunch calendar feature on Champs sports links to our outstanding ads on YouTube or simply the store locator function on all of our sites our customers are interacting with us 24/7.
Although roughly 80% of transactions start with some sort of digital interaction 88% are still completed at a store demonstrating how critical it is to have both great digital content and exciting places to actually go touch feel and try on the product and experience our brand.
We will continue to invest meaningfully in both digital and bricks and mortar.
Let me stop the business review there because we want to get to your questions.
But before we do one last thing.
One dollar per share of earnings in the quarter was another outstanding effort and performance by everyone on the Foot Locker Inc.
team.
Yes it's a tough retail environment out there.
We hear that all the time.
But in my experience retail is a challenging game even at the best of times.
But by focusing on the customer creating exciting places to shop and buy investing in our people and processes living by our core values and partnering with the best suppliers in the world we have a very real chance of continuing to have a lot of happy customers and to win every day.
I want to thank all of our associates here and around the world who once again pulled together to set a new standard of excellence in our financial and operational performance in Q3.
I can't wait to see it happen again this quarter.
As we head into the holiday season we want to wish all of you the very best and remember every holiday outfit looks best with a brand-new pair of sneakers.
Chris [ph] please open the call to questions now.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] One moment please for the first question.
Our first question comes from the line of Mitch Kummetz [ph] with B.
Riley.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks for taking my questions.
I want to start Dick on the basketball side.
It declined sequentially from where it had been the prior quarter.
And forgive me but I think Lauren said it was either a low or mid-single I am not sure which one.
But if you could talk a little bit about what's happening particular with some of the signature shoes from some of the more established players and why you think that that business comes back? It was up mid singles is what Lauren said in her comment and we look at the basketball category in total and certainly there's a lot of excitement around somebody players with Steph Curry Kyrie Irving Anthony Davis was Hardigg going over to Adidas we believe that there will continue to be a lot of excitement around the signature player shoes.
We also look at some of the more established players and the customers voted a little bit said we like the excitement with some of these new guys and we continue to work with our key vendors to make sure that there's excitement across their entire basketball range and across the entire set of price points.
So I'm confident that as we roll into 2016 the established players will continue to sell well and probably get back to where they have been in the past.
Okay.
Then just a second question on runners point sidestep you mentioned that some styles were no longer as relevant there.
Could you just elaborate on that and what changes are you making to adjust to that? Is there any really change in strategy to kind of the segmentation that you are doing in those stores? There is no change to the strategy.
We're working hard on the segmentation strategy to make sure that runners point is positioned as the destination for all things running from the lifestyle running to the performance running.
And that sidestep is really more of a casual lifestyle fashion led footwear destination.
The fact is we fired some customers when we moved to bulk shoes and the boots et cetera out of runners point and as we looked at the test results there were a couple of running silhouettes that were very dependent - that runners point was very dependent on in the German market in particular and those have softened a little bit with Nike FREE being one of them in that particular market.
So the merchant team and wrecking housing is working hard to find replacements for those silhouettes they are working hard with our vendor partners again to make sure that we've got the right mix of product and that we can react quickly when we do see some of those trends start to change.
Got it.
The runners point team is hard at work establishing a connection with the runner in the local communities and seeing success with that.
We've opened up a couple of flagship stores that have really resonated well.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thanks Mitch.
Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Svezia with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone thanks for taking my question and nice job in the quarter.
Thanks Chris.
Sure.
I was wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit on Europe for a moment just given the sustainability and the momentum there as you see it playing out.
Maybe how much you really think is being driven by tourism versus just sort of the product momentum.
And also I'm just curious when you mentioned bringing some styles that are working in Europe like I think superstar and something you are doing with the Air Force One et cetera.
How is that helping you to drive the U.S.
business to a degree to bring some those more casual lifestyles products to the U.S.? Sure.
Well we certainly think that the business in Europe is sustainable Chris.
I think that the team there has done a great job of maximizing product trends working with Thunder partners to create excitement in the stores.
Our remodels over there are having a tremendous effect the website platform that we referenced in our prepared comments we have now got the Runners Point team and the Foot Locker Europe team on the same platform so we're leveraging that digital content and that experience.
So we think that there is great opportunities to continue to grow the business in Western Europe both through comp gains and store expansion.
We haven't got to the point of really taking Runners Point and sidestep very far outside the German unit.
One of the stores that Lauren mentioned with Runners Point is in Vienna so we are starting to expand that but we haven't really begun the march across Europe with that yet.
So as they look and identify styles we have the benefit of seeing what's going on style-wise in Western Europe.
Our teams are on a video call every Monday morning talking about what's working around the globe.
And as we see things working we can work with our vendor partners to make sure that those styles get adopted into the North American range if they are not or vice versa when things are working in the U.S.
that they get adopted into the Western Europe branch.
One of the classic examples is the Teropant from Adidas that the Europeans started selling between two and three years ago and had a pretty good run with it.
We brought it over to the U.S.
at that time the cuff bottomed pant and really the U.S.
market wasn't ready for it.
But the Europeans continued to have great success with it.
We bought it back over about 12 14 months ago.
It was the hottest item over the last year.
So our global reach that global penetration really allows us to see what's working in other markets and allows us to adopt those products across geographies in a much quicker fashion.
And Lauren just a question for you.
It looks like from a long-term goal perspective based on the guidance you will be roughly at that 12.5% operating profit goal potentially at the end of this fiscal year just several years ahead of plan.
Any thoughts in and around that and the ability to go above and beyond that? I suspect we're going to get a few I told you so.
There's just no doubt.
We've done a terrific job on getting after the gross margin improvement levering the fix there and just done an excellent job of managing the expenses in line with the top line growth.
So I have confidence in this team that we will continue to focus on that kind of productivity and flow-through.
I guess that's a long way of me signing that [indiscernible] I think there's still upward potential.
Okay.
All the best on the holiday.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Our next question comes from the line of Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Great job again of course.
Wanted to ask a question on the ASPs.
I know it's been a benefit to you guys and some of the vendors in the space.
I don't know.
You guys have a better insight probably into the future product pipeline than we do of course.
Do you think that innovation is there the product is there the technology that is there to continue that positive AUR ASP trend that has been benefiting you and others in the sector? And that I have one follow-up.
Thanks.
Yeah the ASPs will continue to rise.
I think there's a study innovation pipeline that continues to bring excitement to the product mix.
And going into 2016 we're looking at an Olympic year where innovation becomes very important across many many footwear categories certainly and apparel categories.
One of the other things that's changing is we're creating a more premium apparel assortment so as we look at total ticket our apparel prices are rising as well.
So there is certainly the opportunity to continue to increase ASPs.
[indiscernible] also controlling markdowns and we have some less commercial and that has the effect of increasing ASPs.
Yeah definitely.
No absolutely.
You guys have done a great job at that.
And then on the inventory real quick you guys have been running so lean really well-controlled.
Do you feel like you're missing sales at all? Or is it are you really happy to kind of keep this very lean level of inventory and manage the markdowns as you mentioned? Or do you think there's an opportunity to boost the inventory level given the demand for the products you're selling? I'm looking across the table at Lauren and she's got a big smile on her face.
One of the things that we have to do is continue to increase our turns.
So it's about the flow of product.
And we installed a new merchandise allocation system which is helping us flow the product into our stores on a more timely basis.
We're giving the benefit of that.
Operating inventory clean is one of the objectives that we've had internally for a long time.
I think the work is paying off.
Our inventory is fresh it's clean and I don't believe that we're missing sales.
I think our store managers are surprised that right as they're selling out of product the next product shipment is getting there which is the way that it's supposed to work.
That's great.
Thanks a lot.
Have a happy Thanksgiving.
Thanks Omar.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Binetti with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Let me add my congrats.
Great job on tough quarter.
Thank you.
Lauren a question for you.
Buying and occupancy I think you said was maybe 10 basis points of leverage.
Obviously a little bit below what we would've expected on a nine comp.
Maybe I don't want to lead you to an answer but it reminds me of when you guys started accelerating the remodel program a few years ago in the U.S.
and that upside slowed a little bit.
Would you mind just letting me know if I'm wrong a right on that or if there's something you could point to as to whether there's a change in the leverage point there? I can confirm that you're absolutely right on that analysis [indiscernible] we had in the third quarter as opposed to the first half more dark rent periods with [indiscernible] stores closed for remods.
Yeah so no top line while that's happening.
So [indiscernible] we think it's anomaly to the third quarter.
Contained to the third quarter hopefully? Yes.
Okay.
Then help me marry two comments together please.
You're been talking about mid-single digits for a while but delivering high single-digits pretty easily.
But then as we think about how important you are to the basketball customer the slowdown you talked about there if the slowdown to mid-single digits in basketball doesn't end up being temporary excluding any other changes do you think at this point your position in the other categories to continuing delivering the upside to that mid-single-digit range? Yes we are.
And I think the third quarter was a classic example of that where our job isn't to be the number one basketball seller in the world.
That's one category that we drive.
And I know that some folks have us pegged as the basketball guy but we're far more than that.
And this quarter proved that with a really strong quarter in running a strong quarter in casual shoes our merchant team taking a risk bringing boots in early and having great success through the back-to-school period and selling an awful lot of basketball shoes.
So the work that we've done to diversify the business across product categories to create and a strong solid stool doesn't mean that every leg of the stool is going to work every quarter.
And our merchant team is like a money manager; they move the money around to make sure that we are bringing the best product assortment to the customers and appealing to the customers' needs based on trends.
And historically when basketball was a much bigger chunk of our business the stool was very uneven.
Right now our stool has four very powerful legs between basketball running casual shoes and as our apparel business continues to get better that's the fourth solid leg of the stools.
Thanks a lot guys.
Congrats again on a great quarter.
Thanks Mike.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Camilo Lyon with Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Great job guys.
My question is going to center around apparel.
The first part is if you could just update us on how the apparel transition is unfolding at the Champs banner and when you expect that to fully kind of cycle and see more traction there on the sell throughs.
And then just broadly speaking on apparel you talked about a mix to more premium product.
We've noticed a greater proportion of higher end Nike sportswear in the stores particularly at Foot Locker.
Could you just help us understand r give us some insights as to is the consumer responding to that more premium product and how you think about evolving that product across more of those banners? Sure.
The Champs business apparel continues to get better.
We're still rationalizing against a much bigger licensed product business a year ago.
So while the business wasn't positive at Champs for the quarter they continue to make progress and as we get into Q4 and then on the Q1 of 20 16 we should have cycled through most of the licensed changeover.
Their private label business has been fantastic.
So again it's making sure that we've got the right branded mix the right private label mix the right mix of licensed to be appropriate in Champs and then to get all of the accessories categories working as well.
And as a relates to the second question Camilo on the mix the change to premium the customer is definitely responding positively.
The [indiscernible] from Nike the Teropants from Adi and some of the Under Armour product that we've got in stores customers around the globe are responding to the product mix that we've got.
I think it's a great step that our merchant team has taken.
We sold a lot of cotton by the pound in the past and as we continue the transition away from $9.99 T-shirts to $24.99 T-shirts with great graphics on them the customer is responding very positively with I would say Europe sort of serving as the flagship right now.
The business there has done a complete turn and the merchant team in Western Europe has got the right mix of branded controlled brands and private label and a little bit of licensed product that really is working.
And they were double digits in apparel for the quarter.
In the U.S.
you see the premium apparel certainly led by Tech Fleece and all of our banners but each of the banners has a little bit different diversification of product to make that piece of their puzzle in each assortment puzzle in each store be unique.
Some of the work that the Footaction team is doing with what they call the seventh avenue garmentals where they can get in and out a product very quickly because it's fashion right has really changed the dynamic in the Footaction apparel as well.
The customer is looking for something special from us and that's what we're trying to deliver with the apparel mix changes.
So Lauren with that momentum across the different manners in apparel does that mean that 2016 could finally be the year where apparel margins succeed those footwear margins and trend to where they normally should be? We continue to believe that ultimately the apparel margins go ahead of the footwear margins.
I can tell you that we narrowed the gap in the third quarter but we still have this case of a chase going on where we are improving margins and footwear and apparel and they haven't kept - those apparel margins of not yet gone ahead.
So yes we still believe that that will longer term be a boost to the margin rate.
Okay.
All the best during the holiday season.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Morning Paul.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
You checked all the boxes frankly this third quarter with good product and vendor diversity.
You sound confident headed into the week of greatness and the holidays and as you mentioned next year is an Olympic year which may bring on some innovation.
But stepping back from all of that Dick if you can just really remind us what is driving the strength overall in sneaker sales? It's gone on for a number of years and your guidance suggested it can't continue throughout the next few years.
Just put a little bit of context on us on what is driving this sustained robust growth? Sure.
The younger generation is definitely above casualization and they are perfectly comfortable wearing sneakers all the time.
I was on train the other day and a young gentleman that doesn't work for Foot Locker was sitting on the train in a suit suit and tie dressed to the nines with a beautiful pair of Nike air Max 2015's on.
And I looked at him and said you were sneakers every day? He says I wear sneakers every day because they are more comfortable than anything else I could wear.
And that's really the attitude.
There is a generation of dads that have grown up during the sneaker revolution if you will.
They're comfortable with their kids in sneakers as are moms comfortable their kids in sneakers that's going to continue.
I don't see kids putting leather shoes back on dress shoes back on to go to the office to go to work to go anywhere.
So there is this generation and this feeling of comfort in a casual environment with sneakers and using sneakers as dress sneakers.
Now have dress sneakers and casual sneakers in that they're comfortable all the time.
So I'm an advocate of that.
I'm a believer of that.
I wear sneakers every day no matter where I am.
It's part of my job of course but I think that the young generation even getting into the middle-aged folks are finding out that sneakers are really really comfortable.
Got it.
And if we can just touch on some of the banners actually just to get a little more detail on kind of updated thoughts of where we are specifically Footaction if you could just help us understand what are the changes going on with the remodels with 602 just in terms of the outlook for future growth and then just Champs as that did underperform the core Foot Locker banner.
Thanks.
Sure.
Well Footaction is relatively new in its remodel process.
We've got the garden state format is what we call their new format and where we've opened the doors they're really performing well as Lauren mentioned in her comments.
And it was a little bit of a leap of faith.
We took footwear off the sidewalls and we put footwear along the back with some real highlight fixtures that call out the great footwear that the team buys but in order to get to the footwear we have our core consumer then walking through a lot of really fantastic apparel.
And one of the biggest changes in foot action is the apparel mix that we've seen.
And that's made a big difference to that consumer.
Also the partnership spaces that we've got with Nike we've got Nike kicks lounges we've got Flight 23 shops that are connected to several of our Footaction GSP remodels.
So good progress being made there.
But as Lauren mentioned they've got some dark days.
It takes a number of weeks to get these stores completely remodeled so as we ramp up and get more of them open we would expect to see that performance moderate a bit.
602 as I mentioned we opened our 28th and 29th stores.
I think we've got one more to go this year so we should end the year at 30.
We're looking at the opportunities for next year.
We've got a couple of flagship stores that will open here in New York one next year on 34 Street and one early in 2017 up on Times Square.
602 will be a significant part of that.
We continue to work with our vendor partners as we mentioned in the prepared remarks to get that something special on the apparel front to really drive that consumer.
And we are seeing where we attach the right assets if you well the right people to product much like the support that Rihanna gave to the Creeper from PUMA.
We are seeing real success.
So she response to that active lifestyle fashion led environment.
And we've been straight up all along that we are going to make sure that we've got 602 right before we press the full acceleration and we see that in late 2016 beginning of 2017.
So comfortable where we are at continue to get better with 602 and Champs actually while it underperformed the Foot Locker banner it actually over performed where it's been sequentially the last couple of quarters.
So they were up low single digits the apparel mix there is really important as we get through some of this licensed product challenge.
It's funny we haven't talked about Major League Baseball but as we got into sort of the league finals we had four teams and they all produced great sales results for the Champs banner and a little bit of licensed headwear and some T-shirts et cetera.
Of the four we would have certainly have preferred to see Toronto win because we have a great Toronto following at Champs but that didn't happen and we took advantage of the Kansas City win.
So they are making a lot of steps forward Paul with Champs and the fact that they were part of it in and up low single digits this quarter shows that there got a strong footwear business and an improving apparel business.
Thank you.
Best of luck guys.
Thanks Paul.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Komp with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Thanks.
Dick I wanted to follow up on some your comments.
I know you talked about a lot of factors you think are driving your own fact strength for the Foot Locker banner.
And maybe want to ask more on a relative basis it looks like your relative performance gap continues to improve recently.
I just want to ask if you have any high-level thoughts on maybe why that might be.
If it's the strength of your relationship with the vendors if it's the - really the broader view of the consumer and the different styles of footwear that you're offering or if it's the merchandising initiatives or any thoughts of what's driving the relative performance? The thing I really like Jonathan is when guys answer their own questions.
So you hit on a lot of the real keys to what I think is driving our performance.
And we really worry about what we do we focus on what we do.
We've developed great relationships with our vendor partners around the globe.
We've got a global view as I mentioned earlier which I think really helps us.
So as we see something start to work in one of our geographies we can pass that information around all of our banners all of our geographies and see how we can leverage that while remaining diversified in each of our U.S.
and European banners.
So I think that really helps our positioning across the marketplaces.
The vendor relationships are important.
I think our global reach is important.
I think just the strength of our team is really what drives it home.
We've got people that are driven to win.
They really do worry about winning every single day and it's a testament to their resolve.
Every morning they get up and they know that the scorecard is reset overnight at 0-0 and they've got to go out and win.
Our team does that better than any in the Mall.
And we're not afraid to invest in that business.
Lauren talked about the amount of capital something over $170 million that we've spent on our stores this year alone.
So we invest we've got a great team we've got great relationships.
And that drives our relative performance I think in the marketplace.
And all of this absolutely riveted on our customer with a very clear understanding of who the customer is for each of our banners.
Great store environment for them great merchandise for them and a digital experience that makes sense for us all of that with great marketing that keeps our brands at the forefront.
Great.
And maybe just a follow up on the customer portion thinking specifically about the basketball business and some of the discussion about the established basketball marquee platforms maybe seeing a little less momentum recently.
Do you have any signs when you look at your data for that customer who was buying the LeBron or the KD are they shifting their purchases to some of the newer styles or is that customer just slowing down their frequency altogether and you're seeing a newer customer buy some of the younger-players styles or any thoughts on based on the data you see? It's really a mix I think Jonathan where the excitement right now the customer happens to be in Kyrie and Steph Curry and they're really responding to that.
They're looking at some of the other shoes on the shelf and saying that we need a little bit more innovation we need a little bit better price/value relationship we need a little bit more out of a couple of the other signature players that you mentioned.
But the fact that our basketball business in totality continues to be up tells me that the basketball consumer and the basketball silhouette is still very relevant to our core consumers.
And as I mentioned earlier I look at our merchant team really as money managers and making sure that they get they're open to buy dollars invested in absolutely the right categories to motivate this customer to be excited about the product assortment and do business with us.
Great.
Thanks.
If I could just sneak one more Lauren any thoughts on any SG&amp;A pressures from wages going forward? Much appreciated.
Thank you.
Yes.
We've talked about before and we have for our sales associates a base plus commission structure.
So they get to determine their wage and the better sales they are the higher their wage the higher their take-home pay.
And that has worked well for us.
So we're very much as we're focused on sales per square foot we're focused on sales per payroll hour and making sure that that compensation structure rewards really great salespeople.
So we're feeling good about our ability to navigate what's happening in the U.S.
on wages and we'll make sure that we remain competitive.
Great.
Thanks again.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Kate McShane with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Kate.
You had mentioned that you'd start getting the benefit of entering into an Olympic year next year.
Can you just remind us how the Olympics works for Foot Locker in terms of some of the product maybe that's introduced pre-the Olympics or during the Olympics? When you start to see that in the store? And how much of a preview to that do you have? Our vendor partners are all focused on the Olympics and the product pipeline to support the Olympics and probably the first place that gets a taste of real Olympic product is our Eastbay banner where some of the early track and field shoes some the football cleats that will be used on the soccer picture are debuted there actually pre or just pre or just post-Olympics so right around that timeframe.
Some of the other technologies flow into the commercial lines a little bit later right? Flyknit was the innovation in conjunction with Lunar when you go back and look at 2012 in London we see Flyknit it's taken a while to get commercialized but now it's one of the hottest things that we've got going in our stores.
So there's a little bit of a curve with it Kate but we expect to start to see Olympic color waves Olympic connections going into the second quarter and then the commercialization more so after the Olympics.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then my second question was I think mentioned before by Nike and by Under Armour Nike is pursuing an initiative with Jordan sportswear and Under Armour has the ARMOURY in one of your Champs stores.
Can you update us on those two initiatives? Sure.
We're opening Flight 23 shops in conjunction with Footaction across a number of stores.
So as we remodel Footaction some of them - like 34th Street here in New York certainly Del Amo out in California State Street in Chicago have fantastic Jordan shops that open up along with Nike Kicks lounges as well.
So we'll continue to expand that with Nike as we roll out more - and brand Jordan as we roll out more of our Footaction remodels.
The ARMOURY is a one store buildout in the Champs doors right now but we've got plans to expand that in 2016.
We've also taken some of the - we've taken it down to some wall units inside the store.
So we've got a number of stores with units that look different on the wall to take some of the elements the Armory and bring it into more Champs stores.
And that effort will also continue as we roll into 2016.
We operate Kate we have a prototype and we test some things.
We test different geographies.
We test different size stores.
We test different markets.
And once we get a level of confidence with our vendor partners we accelerate the rollouts.
But both of those are great initiatives with two really important partners.
Thank you.
Thanks Kate.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Poser with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking my question.
Good morning.
I've got a few here still.
One where are you - you mentioned the allocations - can you hear me? Yeah we're already at 10:00.
So make it short.
All right.
Just real quick where are you with the allocation systems? The U.S.
brick-and-mortar business sounds like it was up mid-single digits.
Want to confirm that.
And then Dick when you look at your consumer I think you're just sort of saying this you're sort of totally ambivalent.
You don't care if you're selling a basketball shoe a running shoe a casual shoe.
You're just trying to get the right stuff for your consumer.
Is that a fair point? And lastly when you look into the holiday season with the big Jordan launches post-Thanksgiving and right before Christmas how you feel about those two shoes relative to what happened to the big shoes you had last year? Well Sam I get to be a little bit ambivalent in that the categories are somewhat driven by our consumer not driven by me.
So I really have a tremendous amount of respect for the work that our merchants do to get the right product to our consumers.
and one of our strengths is that we are so laser focused on that consumer by banner and as the consumer moves a little bit as some of those lifestyle preferences change a little bit as the bottoms that they're choosing to wear whether it be a [indiscernible] pant or a denim jean that drives a lot of the sneaker choices.
Sometimes basketball is the perfect silhouette sometimes running is the perfect silhouette.
But our team does a really really good job of getting those categories and those products merchandised appropriately.
So I like to drive sales.
I like the customer to wear what they're most comfortable wearing.
We don't have a bounty on any specific category to say the least.
We want to drive them all.
I look at our Week of Greatness which starts tomorrow Sam and I know you talked about some of the launches that are upcoming.
I like the way the calendar lines up for us.
The Week of Greatness has got some fantastic shoes that actually start today with the Curry 2 and then roll out significantly over the next week.
Great shoes across our markets each day of the season or of the Week of Greatness I should say.
And then when we get to the pre-Christmas launches again I like the way the calendar lines up and the way the shoes line up.
So we have a degree of confidence certainly going into the holiday season.
And then about the allocation? Yeah [indiscernible] the allocation is [indiscernible] is up and running and has been for the better part of a year for the North American business and Europe.
The next phase of it is the order of planning module that lets us impact the orders that we write and that is an early 2016 pilot.
Thank you very much.
Continued success.
Thank you.
Okay.
Operator I think that's all we have time for today.
We appreciate everybody's participation on our call today and we look forward to having you join us on our next call which we currently expect with take place at 9:00 a.m.
on Friday February 26 following the release of our fourth quarter and full year earnings results earlier that morning.
Please note that's one week earlier than we have traditionally announced full year results.
Happy holidays.
Thanks again and goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Foot Locker's Fourth Quarter 2015 and Full Year Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views of future events and financial performance.
These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors including the effects of currency fluctuations customer preferences economic and market conditions worldwide and other risks and uncertainties described in the company's press release and SEC filings.
We refer you to Foot Locker's most recently filed Form 10-K or Form 10-Q for a complete description of these factors.
Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results and actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
If you have not received today's release it is available on the Internet at www.prnewswire.com or www.footlocker-inc.com.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to John Maurer Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Maurer you may begin.
Treasurer &amp; Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Carlos and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Foot Locker Inc.'s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
As reported in this morning's press release the company achieved GAAP net income of $158 million in the fourth quarter up from $146 million in the fourth quarter last year.
On a per-share basis we earned $1.14 this year on a GAAP basis compared to $1.01 in the same period a year ago a 13% increase.
As noted in our release we had one-time items in both this – just completed quarter and last year's Q4.
This year the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $5 million $4 million after-tax to reflect the impairment of certain Runners Point Group assets thus reducing earnings by $0.02 per share.
A year ago the fourth quarter included a gain from the sale of a property as well as a write-down of a trade name.
Excluding these items fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS was $1.16 a 16% increase over the $1 a share we earned on a non-GAAP basis last year.
A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results is included in our press release and except as otherwise indicated the numbers mentioned during our remarks this morning will be based on the non-GAAP results.
The strong finish to the year brought our annual non-GAAP net income to $606 million also 16% up from a year ago and our fourth consecutive year achieving record annual earnings.
On a per-share basis earnings were $4.29 for the full year an increase of 20% over last year's $3.58.
Lauren Peters Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will lead off our call this morning with a detailed look at our fourth quarter financial performance followed by Dick Johnson President and Chief Executive Officer who will touch on product trends and our progress in year one executing our current strategic initiatives as we work towards the long-term financial objectives outlined in last year's Investor Day.
Lauren will complete our prepared remarks with an overview of our annual and quarterly expectations for 2016.
Lauren? Thank you John and good morning to you all.
We do appreciate you joining us as we review our 2015 results and take a first look at 2016.
It was indeed an outstanding year for Foot Locker and I'm pleased to report that in the fourth quarter we were able to sustain the top-line momentum we had built throughout the year posting a 7.9% comparable sales gain on top of last year's 10.2% increase.
Our international division had an outstanding year.
In fact total sales increased more than 10% in local currency in each of our regions.
Our fourth quarter was led by Foot Locker Asia-Pacific with a mid-teens comparable sales gain on top of a double-digit increase in the fourth quarter last year.
Close behind were Foot Locker Europe with an increase in the teens and Foot Locker Canada which was up double digits.
Unfortunately our Runners Point Group stores did not share in that success with both the Runners Point and Sidestep banners down mid single digits.
This performance contributed to the impairment charge John mentioned which had two components: the write-down of the assets from underperforming stores and the impairment of the trade name sp24.com the clearance website that Runners Point was operating when we acquired the business.
We have decided to deemphasize sp24.com as not consistent with our company's overall position as a retailer of premium full-price athletic footwear and apparel.
Our direct-to-customer segment turned in another strong performance with an overall comparable sales gain of 9.6%.
Our domestic store banner dot-com businesses collectively increased sales more than 20% with even faster growth outside the U.S.
Eastbay sales declined low single digits.
It's the true performance part of the athletic industry where Eastbay's assortments are strongest as slowed relative to casual.
We also believe the strength of the U.S.
dollar kept some Eastbay customers shopping locally in their home markets.
Our domestic divisions all posted solid sales performances with Kids Foot Locker leading the way with a high-single-digit comparable sales gain and a double-digit total revenue increase factoring in the addition of 13 net new Kids stores during the year.
Foot Locker in the U.S.
Champs Sports and Lady Foot Locker SIX:02 were each up mid-single-digits while Footaction was up low-single-digits this quarter on top of a double-digit increase in Q4 last year.
Footwear once again drove our sales gains up double digits overall in the quarter.
Men's Footwear was up high single digits while Women's and Kids' Footwear were both up double digits.
By category Running was up in the teens while Basketball with underlying shifts that Dick will highlight in a moment was up at the low end of mid single digits.
True Apparel meaning tops and bottoms was up low single digits while the smaller accessories business including socks and hats posted a high single-digit comp decline.
Overall sales of Apparel and Accessories were down just a few basis points.
Similar to the other quarters of 2015 reported sales were reduced significantly in Q4 due to the impact of weaker FX rates this year compared to rates of a year ago.
That's our 7.9% comparable sales gain translated into a reported sales increase of 5%.
Although it is early days for 2016 and we have no special insight as to where currencies are going to go for now we seem to have cycled through the bulk of the FX impact.
Our monthly comp cadence was highlighted by an exceptionally strong December which was up in the teens.
Comparable sales in November finished at the low end of mid-singles and January increased at a low-single-digit pace.
While January was running stronger than that the snow storm Jonas and the slower distribution of income tax refund checks in the U.S.
caused sales to tail off in the last two weeks.
Moving down the P&amp;L to gross margin we produced an excellent 70 basis point improvement to 33.6% of sales from 32.9% last year.
There were two primary factors driving the increase.
First merchandise margin improved 50 basis points due primarily to lower markdowns although the increased proportion of Footwear in our sales mix also provided a margin lift.
Apparel margins improved even more than Footwear margins in the quarter although they still remain below Footwear.
Second we achieved leverage of 40 basis points on our relatively fixed buyer and occupancy expenses.
These two factors were partially offset by 20 basis points of headwind related to FX.
Our team once again did a good job managing expenses in the quarter as our selling general and administrative expense rate decreased to 19.3% of sales from 19.6% of sales last year.
While we were headed for a bit more SG&amp;A leverage the sales dynamics in the last two weeks of the quarter did not leave much room to adjust variable expenses.
Overall our full-year SG&amp;A expense rate improved by 80 basis points from 19.9% to an all-time low 19.1% as we continue to drive productivity.
For example our sales per payroll hour improved in almost every division and our overall sales per gross square foot surpassed $500 for the first time reaching $504.
Depreciation expense increased this quarter to $39 million from $33 million.
For the full year depreciation and amortization increased 6% to $148 million due to the ongoing investments in the customer experience in our stores our digital sites and various system technologies.
Our adjusted earnings before interests and taxes reached a rate of 12.8% of sales above the long-range goal of 12.5% we set for ourselves at the beginning of the year and the first of those goals which we have reached.
Our fourth quarter tax rate was 35.4% above last year's Q4 rate but below our expected run rate of 36.5% due largely to the expiration of statutes of limitations on foreign tax positions the company had taken in prior years.
On the bottom line it was another record quarter for our company and another record year.
EPS of $1.16 in Q4 marks the third quarter this year that we achieved at least $1 per share in earnings.
Adjusted net income was $606 million in 2015 a 16% increase over last year.
Our net income margin was 8.2% approaching our long-range goal of 8.5% while return on invested capital improved to 15.8%.
Unequivocally it was another excellent performance by the entire team at Foot Locker that enabled the company to achieve such outstanding results.
Full year EPS was $4.29 compared to $3.58 last year.
The 20% improvement in EPS was 4% higher than the increase in net income reflecting the significant return of cash to shareholders we executed throughout the year via our share repurchase program.
For the quarter we spent $103 million to repurchase a total of 1.64 million shares bringing our full year total to 6.7 million shares at a cost of $419 million.
We also returned $139 million of cash to investors in the form of dividends during 2015 which brought our total return to shareholders for the year to $558 million more than 90% of adjusted net income.
As we announced last week our Board declared a 10% increase to our quarterly dividend payout rate to $0.275 per share.
And at year-end we had $637 million remaining on the $1 billion share repurchase program that was authorized a year ago.
With a solid financial position and a history of generating significant annual cash flow we and the Board believe that the company has the ability to continue returning a substantial amount of cash directly to shareholders while also continuing to invest in the strategic initiatives that we believe will drive our financial performance towards our long-range objectives in the years ahead.
My final comment before I hand the call over to Dick is on inventory which remains current and increasingly productive.
It increased 2.8% at actual FX rates compared to a 5% sales increase.
Using constant currencies inventory was up 4.1% in line with our standard when compared to our 8.8% total sales increase.
I'll turn the call over to Dick now and be back in a bit to wrap up our remarks with 2016 guidance.
Thanks Lauren and good morning everyone.
My first earnings call as Chief Executive Officer came just about a year ago and I recall being very pleased then to be able to report the remarkable record-breaking achievements that the team produced during 2014.
And today I could not be more proud to report that the team was able to surpass in 2015 almost every financial and operational metric from 2014.
Although we know that breaking records is what is expected of a high-performing team I must first thank all the individual associates who made it happen.
Their love of the game was apparent everywhere I visited this past year.
From the store associates I watched engaging with customers to the various division headquarters teams working out how to win consistently with their core customer to the support facility personnel teaming up with operations I saw them making sure everything they do helps lead to a happy customer as he or she leaves the store or one of our websites with some exciting new sneakers or apparel.
All along the way I witnessed a lot of passion for winning with our customers.
In a pattern that has developed in recent years we achieved sales gains in all regions channels and genders in the most banners and product categories.
We believe this broad-based consistent performance reflects the leadership positions we have developed as a company across our merchant and operations teams not to mention our equally talented support functions.
I'm not going to spend a lot of time going over product highlights since most of the trends at the first part of the year carried over into the fourth quarter.
I will say that we made substantial progress improving the sales and productivity of all four legs of our product category stool: basketball running and casual footwear along with apparel.
As the year unfolded I believe it became increasingly clear that we have developed a leading position in more than just basketball sneakers.
A perfect example was our running business in which we delivered a mid-teen comparable sales gain in the quarter with double-digit gains in every region.
This excellent performance was driven by lifestyle silhouettes such as Roshe Huarache and Max Air from Nike and ZX Flux from adidas as we lead the market in delivering trend-right running styles.
Meanwhile the rumored death of basketball where our leadership position is most widely recognized has been greatly exaggerated.
Although growth in the basketball category during the quarter was modest relative to running it was nonetheless growth with three primary factors contributing.
First strength in the Jordan brand especially in North America.
Second the rise of new marquee stars such as Kyrie Irving at Nike and Stephen Curry at Under Armour; and third momentum in classic basketball styles such as Air Force 1s.
Gains in these areas were more than enough to offset the current slowdown in sales of other signature products.
We also led the industry in sales of a wide variety of classic sneakers demonstrating the strength and diversity of our footwear assortments.
We took a strong position in Adi original style such as Superstars and Stan Smith's while also delivering popular casual styles from New Balance Puma and ASICS.
And not least our Timberland book business performed exceptionally well despite the relatively mild winter weather during much of the quarter.
Let me now turn to a brief progress report on our strategic initiatives.
First our core business continued to perform very well producing robust top and bottom growth in quarter and full year.
We built on our leadership position creating fresh and engaging store environments having now remodeled approximately 30% of our domestic Foot Locker and Champs Sports stores and just under 20% of our Footaction stores.
We also opened more than 40 shop-in-shops in partnership with our vendors about half of which were House of Hoops.
In 2016 we intend to continue expanding both our remodel and vendor partnership programs.
Second our kids growth store demonstrated outstanding progress increasing sales well into double digits when considering sales of children's product across all of our banners.
In addition to the 13 net new KFL division stores Lauren mentioned we also added kids stores in Europe and in Canada.
And we also added about 30 new Fly Zone shops in the U.S.
in partnership with Nike.
This strategy too we plan to continue in 2016.
Third our Foot Locker business in Europe delivered a double-digit comparable sales gain in almost every country and double-digit growth across all families of business.
The team there did a truly exceptional job this year leading the entire market in offering the hot new styles I mentioned earlier such as the various Nike Modern Comfort and Adi Originals lines as well as Air Max and Jordan.
We continue to work hard at refining and implementing our European banner segmentation strategy and we remain fully confident that the Runners Point and Sidestep banners can contribute much more to our future success in Europe.
Meanwhile the expansion of our Kids Foot Locker banner in Europe is already proving quite successful and we intend to build on that strength over the next several years.
We made progress on our next growth apparel – growth pillar apparel although at a somewhat slower pace than the others.
Lauren mentioned that sales in the category were down slightly in the quarter.
The same was true for the year.
Although apparel profits both in terms of rate and most importantly dollars were up significantly.
Foot Locker Europe posted the best apparel performance with a double-digit sales increase and an improved margin rate.
We're working hard with our vendors to develop special athletically-inspired and fashion-right assortments differentiated by banner to drive the level of excitement in the apparel category to be on par with the premium footwear selections our customers expect from us.
We've been strengthening our team and working with our partners for some time on this and clearly full success has not and will not come overnight.
However given how important apparel is to the vendors' own growth objectives we remain highly confident that together we will win with the customer for his or her apparel needs too.
Our Digital business had another successful quarter and year.
We have invested in mobile and desktop sites as well as apps to deliver an enhanced digital experience including more personalized interactions with our customers.
As you can imagine from our young customers mobile represents a huge part of our online traffic and a rapidly growing percent of our digital sales.
Our direct-to-customer sales reached 12.7% of total sales up from 12.1% a year ago.
And our domestic footlocker.com and ladyfootlocker.com businesses were both well above the 10% target we set for our dot-com sales as a percent of total banner sales.
We are completely channel-neutral as a company with roughly comparable margins for both our store and direct segments so we intend to let the customers decide what the direct-to-customer penetration rate will ultimately be rather than try to steer it one way or the other.
Our other growth pillar is women's and we made good progress there especially in footwear.
The Lady Foot Locker SIX:02 division delivered its seventh consecutive quarter of comp store sales gains.
And our women's footwear sales in Foot Locker and Champs Sports increased double digits for the year.
We opened 15 new SIX:02 doors bringing our total to 30.
We still aren't quite where we want to be with the performance of SIX:02 so we are slowing the store openings in 2016 as we focus on developing brand awareness resetting the product assortments relaunching the SIX:02 website and creating pinnacle SIX:02 experiences inside our New York City flagship stores.
To oversimplify the situation a bit we believe we have overemphasized the performance aspect of what our customers want in terms of athletic and inspired apparel.
It's a given that she expects the product to have performance functionality but the SIX:02 customer really wants apparel that also has a sharp fashion edge.
We are working hard with our vendors to elevate our product offerings through innovation style and scarcity based in many cases on celebrity designs or endorsements such as what we're seeing with Rihanna.
As in men's apparel this is not a one- or two-season fix and the vendors are highly committed to making this work.
As I said we're already making progress so we remain confident and fully committed to delivering exceptional growth in women's footwear and apparel.
As part of that commitment we announced last week some key organizational changes highlighted by the promotions of Jake Jacobs to head our store business in North America and Lew Kimble to head our businesses outside North America.
They have each done an exceptional job leading their respective teams in the execution of the key initiatives of our strategic plan.
In addition to their promotions we reconfigured the leadership of each of our banners under a Vice President and General Manager.
We believe this structure will well position us in the global athletic marketplace align with our key vendor partners and most importantly elevate the relevance connectivity and experiences that the customers of each of our banners expect.
We separated the leadership of SIX:02 which will continue to be led by Natalie Ellis from Lady Foot Locker which will fold into the Foot Locker U.S.
banner led by Andy Gray.
We've come to realize that the core customer of Lady Foot Locker is more similar to the female Foot Locker customer than she is to the SIX:02 customer.
And Natalie can now focus solely on building the SIX:02 banner into the premier athletic retail destination for the more fashion-forward active young woman without the added responsibility of simultaneously managing the transition of Lady Foot Locker.
I want to congratulate Jake and Lew and all of the new general managers of our banners.
Foot Locker's depth of talent around the globe is a tremendous strength contributing to the high-performing company we have become.
I'm very excited to see the team continue to execute our strategies and achieve even greater success in the years ahead.
With that let me turn the call back to Lauren to give you more specifics on how we see 2016 shaping up.
Thanks Dick.
We have indeed become a high-performing company and we believe our momentum should continue in 2016.
As a result we can once again provide the same high-level guidance for 2016 that we've given in recent years.
We believe we can deliver a mid-single-digit comparable sales gain and a double-digit percentage earnings per share increase this year.
We have planned the year with FX rates close to where they are now with the euro around $1.10 and the Canadian dollars and Australian dollars around $0.70.
The latter two currencies are weaker now than a year ago so there will be a few cents of FX headwinds in 2016 but much much less than the $0.23 of stronger dollar cost for EPS in 2015 relative to 2014 FX rates.
We are planning for a slight improvement in our annual gross margin rate in the 10 basis point to 30 basis point range mostly driven by leverage of our buyer and occupancy costs.
We do believe that we have the ongoing opportunity with the benefit of our merchandise allocation system investment and other productivity initiatives to improve full-price selling and thus improve our merchandise margin as well.
We intend to remain disciplined in managing expenses in 2016.
We should also be able to lever on the fixed cost elements of SG&amp;A to produce a modest 10 basis point to 30 basis point rate improvement.
We do have a Q1 headwind due to our office relocation down the block in New York City which will add about $4 million of expense due to paying rent on both locations plus the cost of the move itself.
Our lease here is up at the end of April so after Q1 this expense will normalize.
However we could actually delever SG&amp;A slightly in Q1.
This annual SG&amp;A guidance also incorporates all known minimum wage rate increases and changes in healthcare costs.
Let's talk capital expenditures for a minute.
As you've seen we've announced a $297 million program for 2016 up from the $225 million we spent last year.
We intend to continue our remodel and vendor partnership programs as we elevate the customer experience across our banners.
Combined with approximately 90 new stores concentrated in Europe Kids Foot Locker in the U.S.
and Footaction we expect to spend more than $200 million on improving our store fleet in 2016.
This amount includes close to $10 million to transform two of our New York flagship stores one here on 34th Street and the other up at Times Square.
There are some other large non-recurring outlays included in this year's capital plan including more than $20 million to build out in our new headquarters location and a similar amount for our new online order management system and related customer experience initiatives.
Although we believe 2016 will represent a peak in capital expenditures we now project spending closer to $250 million in the couple of years after this up from the annual $225 million we mentioned in our Investor Day a year ago.
With this level of capital investment in the business we expect depreciation and amortization expense to be in the range of $170 million to $175 million in 2016.
In addition to opening approximately 90 stores we plan to close about 100 which will leave our store count relatively flat year-over-year.
The store closures will once again be concentrated in Lady Foot Locker and Foot Locker in the U.S.
We are planning interest expense to be fairly flat to this year's $4 million and we are continuing to plan our effective tax rate of 36.5% in 2016.
Our guidance of a double-digit percentage increase in earnings per share also assumes a lower share count based on the continued execution of our share repurchase program.
Although we are planning a mid-single-digit comp gain in each quarter the profit flow-through challenge may be greatest in Q1 in turn creating a challenge to achieving double-digit EPS growth this quarter.
With the income tax refund shift I mentioned and the difficult compare of last year's NBA All-Star game being in New York we're expecting February's comp to be up low single digits.
And we're expecting a solid mid-single-digit comp in the remainder of the quarter.
That covers the highlights of 2016.
We're looking forward to another very exciting year.
Let me now ask Carlos to open up the call to your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from the line of Eddie Plank.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Morning Eddie.
Morning.
I guess Lauren you already – you talked about already achieving the 2020 operating margin target this year.
How do we maybe think about that potential going forward? You talked about a little bit of gross margin improvement this year and SG&amp;A improvement but is there anything structural that would prevent you from taking that even higher over the course of the next three years to five years let's say? We don't see a structural impediment to improving that rate.
But again I would reiterate the guidance that we gave you for 2016 around margin 10 basis points to 30 basis points and SG&amp;A – 10 basis point to 30 basis point improvement in each.
So we still believe that there are opportunities for us to improve that merchandise margin and we can lever the fixed costs.
And the same would be true of SG&amp;A that we've got fixed elements within that lever.
But we've got variable elements that we remain focused on productivity improvements on and have initiatives around.
So we're not ready to come out with a new rate yet but we don't see an impediment to it improving.
Okay.
That's fair.
Thanks for that.
And then just real quick I guess could you guys maybe talk a little bit about the product cycle ahead and maybe where you see some of the bigger opportunities this year? Is there anything coming down the pike around the Olympics for instance that you're excited about? Or anything to give us an outlook on how you view the product cycle at this point? Eddie this is Dick.
The Olympics certainly drive innovation every time that you go through an Olympic cycle.
And we're excited about what the vendors have cooking for the Olympics.
And as we've talked about in the past sometimes it takes a little bit longer to commercialize that innovation.
But based on the product engines that we've seen the look ahead that we've got based on the ordering cycle in the year and in our business we see good things coming down the pike from a product perspective both on the footwear side of the business and the apparel side of the business.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thanks for that Dick and best of luck going forward.
Great job guys.
Thanks Eddie.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Trussell.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
How are you doing? Good Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> So wanted to just keep the conversation going on revenue.
You mentioned for example that February is expected to be up low single digits.
And obviously you were facing strong results from a year ago.
But obviously those tough compares will just continue and continue to add up just given your success over the past few years.
So if you can maybe elaborate a little bit more on what gives you that confidence not just for this year's mid-single-digit comp growth but just as we go forward through the 2020 plan.
Specifically if you can touch on the basketball category as well as overall ASPs that you're seeing in your stores.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
The confidence comes from having some vision into the pipeline obviously both in footwear and apparel.
As I said great product coming down the pike.
February is a little bit of an anomaly given the incredible All-Star game that we had last year in New York.
We had a great All-Star game up in Toronto but just based on the store coverage in the greater New York City area and the places that we had to activate with consumers Toronto just doesn't have that sort of store base for us.
So as we look at Q1 and on into Q2 when the Olympics will be really heating up we've got the Euro championships going on as well so a lot of excitement around sport which elevates all of the product offerings and the excitement with the consumer.
So the ability to drive those comp gains Lauren talked a lot about the productivity tools that we've identified the amount of money that we're reinvesting into our store fleet to make them more exciting places to shop and create more engagement with our consumers regardless of the channel that they want to engage with us on.
All those things are just a continuation of great work that's been done in the past with new peaks coming along the way.
We've remodeled about 30% of our domestic Foot Locker and Champs stores.
We're getting after the Footaction remodels a bit this year.
We've got remodel projects going on in Europe Canada and Australia as well.
So the productivity gains that we're seeing we believe can continue.
We also believe that the inventory management and expense management that our team does gives us the flow-through opportunities that Lauren talked about.
I think all of those things add up to really make us the first place a customer will come to check us out for great product that they – product that they love.
Inc.</span></strong> Absolutely.
So just then turning to Europe if you can just give a little more color on what you think is driving this trough that you're seeing throughout a number of countries there in Europe? And how do we get Sidestep going in the right direction? I think there's two different things going on Paul one the Foot Locker Europe business with the strength of the categories they had a nice rebound in apparel this year which certainly helped on that comp line.
We see exciting products big product pillars that are driving the business in Western Europe for Foot Locker certainly some excitement around the Kids business there as well.
The segmentation work that we're doing with Runners Point and Sidestep we started late in 2014.
The initial results looked very promising.
During 2015 we saw as we repositioned Runners Point as all things running we saw a couple of key running silhouettes soften dramatically some really big silhouettes in the German runners' mind softened dramatically.
So the team in Recklinghausen is working hard to get the assortment right.
We've also got some build-out configuration things that we're testing in both Sidestep and Runners Point.
So we remain confident that Runners Point and Sidestep doors are a big positive for the future.
Even with the impairment that we talked about they were accretive to our business this year.
So the write-down of sp24.com which was a heavy liquidation site not really the way that we do business anymore.
Runners Point prior to the acquisition drove a lot of business through there.
We've done the look at the business and decided that that's not where we're going to operate that business.
So a lot of moving parts with it but we remain committed and confident that Runners Point and Sidestep play a big role going forward for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good luck.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks Paul.
Our next question comes from the line of John Kernan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Congrats on the great results.
Thanks John.
I wondered if you could shed some light on ASP growth.
Obviously some of your key vendors have been pushing price higher particularly in basketball.
Can you talk about the sustainability of that and if you've seen any elasticity towards higher prices in some of the key basketball re-launches lately? Well ASPs are a function – it's a price-value relationship for our customer.
And as long as they bring – as our vendors bring innovation and excitement to the silhouettes the customer doesn't really seem to have a lot of price resistance.
The Flyknit Air Force 1 is a great example.
It's $175 because that Flyknit upper changes the complexity of the shoe and in the consumers' mind changes the price-value relationship.
So the upper level of signature basketball got a little bit formulaic with everything bunching up in price points.
So as we look forward when you look at a Steph Curry shoe or you look at a Kyrie Irving shoe you start to see a little more variance in those prices.
And I expect that's what we'll see along the way.
Our vendors do a great job of introducing a silhouette at a price level and then continuing to lever that up a bit as they add more excitement whether it be finishes whether it be textures whatever that the consumer is willing to pay a little bit more for.
So we continue to see upside on ASPs as we mix it across our entire portfolio.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'm just adding (41:52) that we work on getting the right products at the right place at the right time and all of that means fewer markdowns and that supports further the ASPs.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
You talked a little bit about the product cycle for this year and certainly Nike is a big part of that but it seems like some of the other smaller vendors to you are also having a lot of success.
Can you talk about efforts with Under Armour and adidas this year particularly on the Footwear side of things? We've got a small group of very good partners right? There's not a ton of people that we can do business with that have the authentic athletic heritage that our consumer wants to see drive the business.
So certainly Nike is the leader in the marketplace but we've had great success with adidas.
We've got some success starting with Under Armour on the Footwear side of things.
They've created – they've leveraged a great asset and they've got a good portfolio of assets that they'll leverage going into 2016.
We've got a store build-out the ARMOURY at Champs Sports that we're testing a dedicated space in.
We've got some build-outs with adidas wall units and build-outs that we're testing across the fleet.
adidas's penetration in Europe continues to be significant.
They have some silhouettes that are really resonating with the European consumer.
One of the strengths of our business is that we're able to see those things that happen in Europe and our U.S.
team is able to react to them quickly to be first-to-market with things here in the U.S.
So secondary vendors are critical to our success and we spend a lot of time working with all of them trying to bring innovative fresh product to the consumer.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
If I can just sneak one more.
Is there any way to quantify the comp store lift you're getting from some of – from the remodels that you've been in the process of for the past several years? Yeah we haven't gotten specific.
The fact that we're committed to continuing tells you that they continue to meet all of our internal hurdles and payback on the investments that we're making.
But we haven't gotten into the specific – it varies so much by geography by banner by build-out that the thing that you can remain confident of is that they're meeting our internal hurdles or we would not be as proactive with the campaigns.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kate McShane.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
It's Corinna Van der Ghinst on for Kate.
I was wondering if you could talk about the release schedule for the Jordan brand and how it might be different in 2016.
It seemed that there were fewer total releases around the Week of Greatness and the All-Star break.
Do you guys agree with that? And if so what kind of impact did it have on your business? Well releases are a part of our business but again they're just a part of the business.
We don't get into the specifics of quantities and number of releases.
We're impacted by timing of releases.
As you know we've got a big release tomorrow that a year ago would have been last Saturday.
So we're certainly impacted by the shift of the dates of the launch.
But we work closely with Nike obviously to try to minimize those shifts but Nike Jordan adidas Under Armour they set their launch calendar they set the amount of product that they want to put into the marketplace and we work closely with them obviously to maximize our position in – across all of the launches.
So again it's – a lot of people focus on launch and it's an important part of the business but you have to remember the strength of our business is really a four-legged stool with Basketball being significant Running being significant Casual being significant and Apparel certainly starting to become significant.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then I'm not sure if you guys stated this earlier but what percentage of stores are you targeting for remodels to be completed by the end of this year and how many ARMOURY shops are you planning to open this year? With the capital program that we described we should be at about 35% of the Foot Locker U.S.
fleet touched about 40% of Champs approximately 30% of Footaction and Foot Locker Europe about 30%.
The Under Armour shops we've got five more in the plan for this year.
And part of it is dependent on us getting the right real estate to test these shops in.
But the next ones will come up in the Texas market.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And just a follow-up on that ARMOURY shop-in-shop.
How is that performing relative to expectations? Are you getting the quantity and level of product that you are looking for for those shops? The customer continues to find great product in the ARMOURY.
So obviously we've got a very pragmatic approach of building prototypes tweaking them a little bit rolling out a little bit further tests.
So that's where we're at with the ARMOURY.
We'll roll the expansion out to five more doors this year.
We'll make sure that the product engine is robust enough to keep the hot great innovative product in those doors flowing.
And we'll make sure that the customer reacts as positively in other geographies as they have in the greater Baltimore area.
So we're very bullish on the format and working closely with Under Armour to make sure that the private engine is robust enough to support those great shop-in-shop spaces.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you and good luck.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Robby Ohmes.
Please go ahead.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Oh thanks for taking my question.
Hey Robby.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Actually.
Hey how are you? A couple questions.
The first one is I just wanted to follow up on the first quarter.
Can you just walk us through your – so the first quarter started out low-single-digit? Can you just walk us through where the confidence in getting the acceleration to mid-single-digit comes from? And then maybe tie into that – and this is my second question.
Can you just help us understand how the ASP and blend of slowing basketball versus strong casual and running works? Meaning how do you keep the momentum and the average selling price growth in casual and running moving forward as basketball slows? Thanks.
I think Q1 Robby is a function of – we talked about some of the slowdown in February being driven by a tax situation and a really robust All-Star game from last year.
Those things will both neutralize going into the rest of the quarter.
We've seen obviously seen the product flow and we understand what the product engines are going to deliver over the remainder of the first quarter.
So there is – I'm very confident that mid single digits is where we'll drive the quarter.
We'll reaccelerate to the pace that we were at I believe before we came across the All-Star game comp specifically.
So – and as it relates to ASPs again ASPs are influenced by a lot of things.
Part of it is the manufacturer-suggested retail price.
Part of it is our ability to sell full-price goods by having them in the right store at the right time in the right size so that the customer is happy.
Part of it is driven by our ability to leverage our cross-channel efforts to make sure that we have the ability to sell the last unit that's available in our entire fleet.
And those efforts all contribute to an ASP build.
I mentioned in the prepared remarks we talked about our Timberland business for example.
Timberland 6-Inch Week Boot is exactly the same cost as some of the marquee basketball shoes.
The Air Force 1 Flyknit shoe is in the same range as some of the signature basketball shoes.
As we continue to model the portfolio from the full range of price points and values that the customer sees we're confident that ASPs will continue to grow.
It's really – if you take one specific segment one specific category launch of signature basketball you don't get a true model of what the portfolio looks like.
But when you start to take $100 shoes that become $110 shoes that also has a positive impact on our ASPs.
You take a look at not having to mark down a bunch of shoes that historically we may have had to mark down prior to the good inventory work that the team's done and the productivity gains that we've seen.
So with all of the variables in the pricing model we're confident that ASPs will continue to rise as our vendor partners continue to bring great innovative products into the marketplace.
No matter what the category that that same price-value relationship exists in casual that it does in basketball.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
And just to understand the quarter does that – if you do mid-single-digit for the quarter does that mean you could see some high-single-digit comps potentially in March and April? Well we've talked as Lauren said in her commentary the belief that we can drive mid-single-digit comps for Q1 is very real and we're very confident that we'll be able to do that.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks very much guys.
You bet Robby.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
So as we break down gross margin from here what's the best way to rank the merchandise margin drivers both domestically and international and what comp today is needed to lever the buying and occupancy? So there are a number of things around the merchandise margin.
Certainly the technology investments that we've made that help us get the right product to the right place at the right time so that allocation tool that we've put in as we've described before is really a multi-year project that continues to deliver dividends as that learning system learns (53:31) more and the humans using it learn more about it.
The apparel element as well – we described that apparel margins while they improved significantly in the quarter are still running behind footwear.
And we really think that when we get to the place where we're at the top of our game in apparel that those margins will be meaningfully ahead of footwear.
So that's an opportunity for us.
And Dick described making that last unit of inventory available no matter where it is in the system is another thing that helps us with getting more value out of each and every unit; that helps the margins.
So with the breadth of things that we're working on that's why we continue to think that we've got opportunity there.
But to lever on the fixed – we have described that we've gotten into some big properties and doing some things in flagship spaces; that does add the higher rents that comes with those and that puts a little bit of pressure on levering.
We think that we can still lever; it looks more like the low end of mid-singles on those fixed elements within margin.
Great.
And then just a follow-up as we think about the domestic store fleet so 100 closings this year do you feel comfortable with the size of the chain today and just what's the evaluation process of the fleet going forward? We evaluate the fleet and the entire portfolio door by door mall by mall street location by street location.
I don't know what the magic number is in terms of door count.
We continue to work to elevate the doors that we have by opening vendor shop-in-shops with various vendor partners working with the developers to get better locations inside the malls.
So we'll continue to do our due diligence against each project and make sure that whether renewing a lease make sense; does upgrading the store with a remodel make sense; does a vendor shop make sense? We're still firm believers that stores are a critical part of our strategy going forward in all of our geographies.
We know that our consumer still enjoys being together being in the mall touching feeling product checking each week to see what's changed to see what the hot releases are.
They may start their adventure with their digital device in hand but we still do a tremendous amount of volume through our doors and as Lauren talked about our sales per square foot topped $500 for the first time in our history.
So we know that we're being more productive and we know that we're building exciting spaces for our customers to come and visit.
Let's just remain riveted on productivity of the unit and let the customer decide how they want to shop where they want to shop.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thanks Matt.
Next question comes from the line of Eric Tracy from Brean Capital.
Please go ahead.
LLC</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning and I'll add my congrats.
Just a great quarter in a tough environment.
Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
LLC</span></strong> I guess just to follow on that last question in terms of the optimal size of the fleet.
Dick philosophically obviously a lot of just concerns out there in terms of the consumer continuing to migrate online via third-party online retailers or vendors direct.
Maybe just speak to again what's defendable within the Foot Locker model be it your own DTC growth the willingness of vendors to invest behind you all with shop-in-shops superior allocation.
Just speak to what you've sort of seen over the last few years and what the expectation is in that evolution of the consumer? Well I think I've mentioned it last call but I love when you answer your own question.
So yeah it's all of those things right.
Our DTC we're continuing to invest across all channels.
So certainly our online and digital business we engage with our consumer there; we tell great stories.
We want them to start their morning and end their night with one of our brand banners on their digital device.
We also know that the consumer likes to still touch product and see product and have an immediacy of being able to get that great newly released product.
So the stores become realistically the only place that you can have it now when it releases.
So as we continue to invest with our vendor partners to create more exciting places to shop in the malls as we continue to find better location in malls as we continue to right-size properties and drive productivity those things we believe are all defensible.
Our service model we think is defensible.
We've got the best fleet of people across our portfolio to take care of customers.
They're the resident experts.
People come in then look to our Stripers in the Foot Locker doors as the sneaker expert.
Our customers come in and want to talk about releases.
They want to talk about what happened in the game last night and do you think the Kobe shoe will be retro'd and all of those things.
So that we believe both from a physical engagement in the store and a digital engagement we think those things are all defensible.
And obviously the wholesale part of our vendors business is still the much bigger chunk of our vendors business.
So the fact that they are willing to continue to invest with us jointly invest with us walk out and say loudly we opened up 40 plus properties last year that we partnered with our vendors on.
We continue to see that opportunity going forward.
So the consumer likes choice and I know that on the digital device choice is only a click away.
But they sometimes like to look at that wall and say hey that's really cool.
That's really cool.
And we've got some exclusive product that's only available within the Foot Locker family.
So those things all create defensible positions I think Eric.
LLC</span></strong> That's great.
And then just a follow-on to that.
There is some rationalization going on in this space be it one of your bigger competitors 25% of their fleet going away a bigger sporting goods player out there potentially going into bankruptcy.
How do you think about one just the near term if there are any liquidation impacts throughout the channel? And then two the benefits the opportunities for share grabs as you guys are decently positioned? Yeah I think our leadership position Eric is clear across all of the categories that we talk about and then in the markets where these guys are going to be closing down doors.
So you have to remember that we've rationalized a lot of space over the last few years.
We've closed in North America alone well over 600 doors over the past half dozen years or so.
So we believe the right-sizing of the fleet is an ongoing thing.
We believe there's market share to be captured anytime.
We don't necessarily need a competitor to close their door.
We think we're going to capture market share based on our assortment based on our people based on the storytelling and the engagement that we've got with our consumers and based on the passion that our customers have for the product.
So will we be active in the markets where doors close? Absolutely.
But we're active in every market.
We want to win every single market regardless of who the competitor happens to be in that market.
LLC</span></strong> That's great.
And if I can just sneak one last in on the women's business.
Mentioned Lady Foot Locker and SIX:02s slowing a little bit of the growth at SIX:02.
Maybe just speak a little bit more to that what you're seeing on the women's side of the business.
And turning to more of a fashion sort of element that is in all bringing some risk factor to that? Or am I just reading – overly reading the fashion component of that? I think you're over reading fashion a little bit.
I mean our Muse Grace (1:02:10) in SIX:02 leads a very active lifestyle but she wants to look great while she's doing it.
She expects all of the product to have performance attributes and perform regardless of whether she's in the spin class she's out for a run she's doing yoga it doesn't make any difference.
She knows that the product that's going to be in SIX:02 is going to have performance characteristics.
But she's also very very informed about style and wants to be looking different looking good in her classes going out after class for a juice or a coffee whatever it happens to be she wants to have that style quotient invested as well.
So we use the word fashion I would compound that by saying it's really more style and making sure that it's not about necessarily being the ripped hard body it's more about looking great as I do things.
And we're working with our vendor partners and we've seen some success.
The Alala and Coral product that we brought in that has a little more style quotient to it has performed well.
On the footwear side we've seen the connectivity with Rihanna on the PUMA Creeper and the Venti (1:03:25) product that's launching I think today; very well received by the consumer.
So it's more style than fashion Eric but something that I think we probably didn't have enough of in our early rendition.
So as we get the product assortment right the vendor assortment right again our confidence level is high on SIX:02.
But the other reason for slowing and we talked about it in the prepared remarks but we're going to have really pinnacle spaces in Manhattan for SIX:02 that we have not had up to this point.
SIX:02 will have a store inside a store if you will of our flagship locations here on 34th Street come April and up on Times Square later in the year and that's a really big effort because those stores will really be the face of the brand for a lot of our industry.
And we're excited about those opportunities.
So we're confident in the women's business confident that SIX:02 is our go-forward banner confident that we'll get the assortment mix right with our vendor partners.
LLC</span></strong> That's great.
Thanks so much guys.
Best of luck.
Thanks Eric.
We have time for one last question.
Our last question comes from the line of Matthew McClintock.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Yeah good morning everyone.
Actually my question is just a follow-up to Eric's question on SIX:02.
Thanks a lot Dick for that information and color that you provided but I was thinking about it more from a perspective of brand awareness.
Clearly as you get the product right that should expand the brand but what we've seen with a lot of smaller what we say competitor-style yoga women's brands that are out there it just seems that there's a hurdle to getting that awareness out there.
And I was just wondering besides maybe the flagship maybe that's the aha moment but how should we think about that aha moment when brand awareness meaningfully accelerates for SIX:02 specifically? And then is that more of a slow grind over time or would it be more of an aha moment when you get it all right? Thanks.
Well we'd like it to be an aha moment quite honestly.
So I think the two flagship locations are going to be as I said the face of the brand for the industry and for a lot of people that look at us.
A tremendous number of customers are going to walk through those doors and be introduced to SIX:02.
We've also got a big effort in 2016 to relaunch the website to make sure that that is by far our biggest store and has the most resonance with this consumer.
So it's a combination of both.
And once we feel like we've got all of the elements in place there will be an aha moment from a brand campaign point of view.
We started out by trying to grow the brand more from a grassroots point of view; smaller local events and as we get the confidence that we've got this formula right there will be a bigger opportunity for an aha moment and it will tie in the flagship stores here it'll tie in the 30 doors that we've got around the country and it will certainly tie in our digital space that will be relaunched this year.
So again it's a work in progress.
And we've said it before if this women's space was easy there'd be a lot of people winning in this space.
And while there are a lot of people competing for this space there's nobody winning in the space of being a place that's designed for her that has a service model for her that can provide her product assortment from head to toe and that's what SIX:02 will be in the marketplace.
Inc.</span></strong> If I could follow up on that could you maybe talk a little bit more about the collaborations with your vendor partners for SIX:02 and how the work there has improved and what needs to be done in terms of I don't know whether it's reducing lead times or improving speed or just what needs to be done there to make SIX:02's product more compelling? Thanks.
It's a couple of things it's speed to market certainly it's excitement in the industry the connectivity between Puma and Rihanna has sort of changed the model on the women's side.
In most cases our vendor partners have looked at female athletes as that role model whereas that model if you will very similar to the men's side of the business.
But as we see the success with Rihanna we see some success with Stella McCartney from the adidas brand there are designers and celebrities if you will that connect with this core consumer.
So our ability to work with our vendor partners to bring exciting product to the marketplace quicker to your point speed to market is important with her because once it's seen she wants it and it's not dissimilar to what you saw in the New York Fashion Week where a couple of people in fashion weeks are making their product directly available for sale right after fashion week rather than saying this is the fall lineup you can buy it next fall they're saying here's this product and you can have it today.
That's the sort of environment our consumer lives in and we'll continue to work with our vendor partners to accelerate the speed to market.
Inc.</span></strong> That's a great opportunity.
Best of luck.
Thanks Matt.
We're going to have to stop there.
We're sorry that we couldn't get to all of your questions.
I'll be back at my desk to field additional questions in a few minutes.
Meanwhile thanks again for your participation on today's call.
Please join us on our next earnings call which we anticipate will take place at 9:00 a.m.
on Friday May 20 following the release of our first quarter results earlier that morning.
Thanks again and goodbye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.