Good morning.
My name is Summer and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Leah Stearns Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Summer.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investors tab on our website www.americantower.com.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows: First I will provide a brief overview of our second quarter and year-to-date results; then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer will review our financial and operating performance for the quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2012; and finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2012 outlook and future operating performance our pending acquisitions and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2012 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 the presentation which provides a summary of our second quarter and year-to-date 2012 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for approximately 98% of our total revenues which were generated from leasing income-producing real estate primarily to investment-grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 16.9% to nearly $682 million from the second quarter of 2011.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 19.7% to approximately $466 million.
Operating income increased 19.8% to approximately $270 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $48 million or $0.12 per basic and diluted common share.
During the quarter we recorded 2 significant items which negatively impacted net income attributable to American Tower Corporation by approximately $128 million or $0.32 per share.
These items included the unrealized noncash losses of approximately $115 million due primarily to the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to over $1.6 billion of intercompany loans which are denominated in currencies other than the local currency which we have utilized to facilitate the funding of our international expansion initiatives and general operations.
For accounting purposes at the end of each quarter these loans are re-measured based on the actual FX rate on the last day of the quarter and.
As a result of a stronger U.S.
dollar as of June 30 2012 compared to March 31 2012 the re-measurement of these loans generated noncash losses for accounting purposes.
In addition during the quarter our tax provision reflected a noncash $48 million valuation allowance on deferred tax assets which includes amounts that were attributable to net operating losses generated by our international segment.
These losses were generated primarily as a result of depreciation and interest expense deductions associated with our foreign operation.
As a result of ongoing significant noncash items reflected in our income tax provision we have adjusted our definition of AFFO to reflect cash taxes paid.
We believe that this revised methodology more accurately reflects the ongoing cash obligations of our income tax liabilities.
Turning to the results for the first half 2012.
Our rental and management revenue grew 20.9% to approximately $1.366 billion for the first half of 2012.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 21.1% to over $928 million.
Operating income increased 22.7% to approximately $545 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $270 million or $0.68 per basic and diluted common share.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss the results in more detail.
Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that we continue to build on our first quarter momentum and were able to deliver another solid quarter of results.
Our strong performance during the quarter was driven by continued solid leasing trends throughout our served markets.
In addition we completed the construction or acquisition of over 2 400 communications sites globally.
As a result we have reaffirmed our outlook for total rental and management revenue and increased our outlook for adjusted EBITDA and AFFO even as we face foreign currency headwinds.
This morning I'll begin with more detail on our second quarter financial and operational results and conclude with a discussion of our updated expectations for the full year.
If you'll please turn to Slide 5 of our presentation you will see that for the second quarter our total rental and management revenue increased by nearly 17% to $682 million.
On a core basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations noncash straight-line lease accounting and significant onetime items our consolidated rental and management revenue growth was almost 23%.
Of this core growth over 10.5% was driven by core growth from existing sites which we refer to as core organic growth with the balance attributable to growth from new sites.
Included in this new site growth is the impact of the increase in pass-through revenues attributable to the 11 700 new sites we have constructed or acquired in our international segment since the beginning of the second quarter of 2011.
During the quarter revenue growth from our legacy properties across our global footprint reflected strong new leasing activity with approximately 60% of consolidated signed new business attributable to new leases and the balance coming from existing lease amendments.
Our core organic growth of over 10.5% was complemented by over 12% core revenue growth from new properties as a result of our continued expansion initiatives and reflects the impact of our acquisition or construction of over 12 200 new communications sites globally and our acquisition of approximately 1 800 property interests under third-party communications sites since the beginning of the second quarter of last year.
Over 95% of our new communications sites are located in our international markets where we expect to see continued demand as new technologies are deployed new spectrum is issued and wireless carriers support the growing demand for wireless data on their networks.
Turning to Slide 6.
During the second quarter our domestic rental and management segment's revenue growth was primarily driven by an increase in cash leasing revenue from our legacy properties with reported revenue growth of over 11% to approximately $473 million and core revenue growth of about 10%.
During the quarter our domestic core rental and management segment organic revenue growth was over 7% which reflects new cash leasing revenue on existing sites in the United States.
This leasing activity continued to be primarily generated by 3 of our largest tenants as they continue to expand their 4G footprints.
The remainder of our core growth nearly 3% was generated from the over 500 new sites we have acquired or constructed since the beginning of the second quarter of 2011 in addition to the approximately 1 800 property interests under third-party communications sites which we acquired in 2011.
Also in the quarter our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased approximately $48 million or over 14% representing a year-over-year conversion rate of about 99% which reflects our strong ongoing property level cost management and the impact of the acquisition of nearly 1 000 properties under our existing tower sites since the beginning of the second quarter of 2011.
As a result of our growth in gross margin operating profit increased approximately 14% to over $364 million.
Turning to Slide 7.
During the quarter international rental and management segment reported revenue increased over 31% to $209 million meeting our expectations by overcoming not only foreign currency headwinds of approximately $9 million relative to our established outlook rates but also a later-than-anticipated closing of our Uganda sites which if they had closed in line with our original expectations would have contributed an incremental $8 million in revenue during the quarter.
International core growth was nearly 56% and international core organic growth was over 22% which is primarily driven by stronger-than-anticipated activity from tenants such as Telefónica and América Móvil in Latin America Vodafone and MTN in South Africa as well as Vodafone Bharti and Aircel in India.
For the first time in our history our international segment generated more incremental commenced new business during the quarter than our domestic segment.
In addition during the quarter we recorded about $5 million attributable to the reversal of a revenue reserve relating to a customer in Mexico.
While we initially expected strong growth in our international segment during 2012 year-to-date leasing activity by our tenants has exceeded our expectations across many of our served markets and we expect leasing to remain strong through the second half of 2012.
We continue to make significant investments internationally.
During the quarter we constructed 500 sites primarily in India.
And at the end of the quarter we closed our acquisition of 962 sites in Uganda and an additional 700 sites in Brazil.
In total we have added approximately 11 700 communications sites to our international portfolio since the beginning of the second quarter of 2011 contributing nearly 34% to our international core growth and driving our international revenue to over 30% of our total consolidated rental and management revenues.
As we add new sites to our international portfolio our pass-through revenue continues to increase as we are able to share a portion of our operating cost with our tenants.
During the second quarter our international pass-through revenue was about $55 million which reflects an increase of over $15 million from the year ago period.
From a reported gross margin perspective our international rental and management segment increased by approximately 28% year-over-year to $136 million reflecting a 60% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenue our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate would have been 88% and 87% respectively.
Further our international rental and management segment SG&amp;A expense decreased by approximately $2 million from the second quarter of 2011.
This decrease was attributable to the reversal of about $4 million in bad debt expense associated with one of our tenants in Mexico and was partially offset by costs associated with establishing our presence in our new markets including Uganda as well as investing in scaling our legacy operations to support our ongoing growth.
As a result of our international rental and management segment gross margin growth our international segment operating profit exceeded our expectations increasing almost 38% to $116 million.
Our international segment operating profit margin was 56%.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenue exceeded 75%.
Operating profit outpaced our internal expectations for the quarter despite FX headwinds of approximately $5 million relative to our outlook rates as well as a $3 million impact to operating profit as a result of our delayed acquisition in Uganda.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the second quarter of 2011 was nearly 20% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter at just over 24%.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately $77 million primarily as a result of an increase of about $100 million in total revenue of which approximately $15 million was attributable to an increase in international pass-through revenue related to the addition of new sites.
Direct expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense increased by approximately $21 million of which $15 million was a corresponding increase in international pass-through costs and about $5 million was attributable to other costs in our African markets which we launched in 2011.
Finally SG&amp;A excluding stock-based compensation expense increased about $3 million from the year ago period.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin increased to nearly 67%.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was over 74% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was above 90%.
And during the quarter AFFO increased by approximately $38 million or over 14% relative to pro forma AFFO in Q2 2011.
Core AFFO increased by over 23.5% which excludes the impact of onetime start-up CapEx as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
As outlined on Slide 9 we deployed about $105 million via our capital expenditure program in the second quarter split about evenly between our domestic and international rental segments.
We spent about $49 million on discretionary capital projects associated with the completion of the construction of 564 sites globally.
Of these new builds 64 were in the U.S.
with the remainder throughout our international markets.
We continue to utilize our discretionary land purchase program in the U.S.
to acquire land interest under our existing towers.
In the second quarter we invested about $12 million to purchase land under our towers and as of the end of the quarter we owned or held through long-term capital leases the land under about 29% of our domestic sites.
Over the past 5 years we have purchased land under 2 400 of our properties and extended the lease term on an additional 2 600 by an average of approximately 20 years.
We will continue to selectively acquire land when we can meet our risk-adjusted hurdle rates while also proactively extending our end-of-term maturities and we currently have less than 3% of our domestic sites with ground leases that come up for renewal over the next 5 years.
Our second quarter 2012 spending on redevelopment capital expenditures which we incurred to accommodate additional tenants on our properties was $18 million.
Redevelopment spending continues to be slightly higher than historical levels due to spending in our legacy Latin American markets where we are seeing strong lease-up trends in the region and are redeveloping some of our sites to ensure that we are well positioned to capture this incremental demand for our tower space.
Finally our capital improvements in corporate capital expenditures have increased in tandem with our increase in tower assets in addition to the start-up maintenance CapEx in Ghana and Colombia we discussed last quarter.
In aggregate these capital expenditures came in at about $25 million during the quarter.
From a total capital allocation perspective year-to-date we've deployed over $1 billion including distributions of about $170 million to shareholders through our first 2 regular dividends over $225 million on capital expenditures and over $650 million for acquisitions.
Finally we spent about $11 million to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program and we'll continue to expect that we'll manage the pacing of our stock repurchases based on market conditions and other relevant factors.
During the second quarter we acquired 45 communications sites in the U.S.
and 1 820 communications sites internationally including 962 in Uganda and 700 in Brazil.
As I mentioned earlier both of these transactions closed at the very end of the quarter and therefore their contributions to our second quarter financial results were minimal.
Turning to Slide 10.
As we've highlighted in the past we're extremely focused on deploying capital while simultaneously increasing AFFO and return on invested capital.
Since 2007 we have invested over $9 billion in capital expenditures acquisitions and stock repurchases.
Concurrently we've increased both our pro forma AFFO and pro forma AFFO per share on a mid-teen compounded annual basis.
In addition from 2007 to the second quarter of 2012 we have increased our return on invested capital by over 200 basis points to 11.2%.
We've been successful with driving this growth through our disciplined capital allocation strategy.
The strategy is simple.
First seek to return capital to shareholders through our dividend to ensure we maximize the tax efficiency of our REIT structure.
Second we seek to invest capital into our business through our capital expenditure program.
Third we further allocate capital through acquisitions both in our existing and potential new markets.
And finally we deploy our excess cash flow through our stock repurchase program.
We manage the entire capital allocation process within the construct of both our required return hurdle thresholds and our targeted capital structure.
Historically our disciplined approach to investments has resulted in our capital allocation strategy driving meaningful growth in both our return on invested capital and AFFO.
As a result we believe this capital allocation strategy will continue to create significant value for our shareholders.
Moving on to Slide 11.
We are reaffirming our outlook for total rental and management segment revenue as a result of our strong core business results which are about $46 million ahead of our prior expectations but have been offset by approximately $38 million attributable to foreign currency exchange rate headwinds which we now forecast to occur through the second half of 2012 and $8 million attributable to the delayed closing of our JV in Uganda.
The $46 million of stronger business results that we expect will offset these 2 factors as a function of $10 million attributable to lower-than-expected churn and stronger existing site revenue performance in the U.S.
and $36 million attributable to our international segment reflecting our recent acquisition of sites in Brazil the revenue reserve reversal in Mexico stronger new business performance in India and across our served markets in Africa.
Therefore we continue to expect to grow total rental and management revenues over 16% year-over-year at the midpoint.
However our core growth expectations have increased to well over 20% for the year.
Turning to Slide 12.
We are increasing both our outlook for adjusted EBITDA and AFFO by $10 million at the midpoint.
Our adjusted EBITDA outlook reflects the reduction of $24 million attributable to ongoing foreign currency exchange rate headwinds and $3 million attributable to the delayed closing of our joint venture in Uganda.
We expect that these 2 factors will be more than offset by $13 million attributable to stronger existing site revenue performance and ongoing site level and overhead cost control in our domestic segment $5 million of incremental operating profit attributable to our services segment and nearly $20 million attributable to our international segment reflecting our recent acquisition of sites in Brazil the revenue reserve and bad debt reversal in Mexico and stronger overall business performance throughout our served markets.
As a result we are now expecting adjusted EBITDA to increase to $1.83 billion at the midpoint driving reported growth to nearly 15% and core growth to nearly 19%.
Year-to-date we have generated strong margins which have been driven by our focus on site-level cost management as well as the impact of the first quarter onetime U.S.
customer billing settlement and the second quarter revenue and bad debt reversals in Mexico.
Looking forward we expect margins to decline slightly in the second half of the year primarily as a result of the impact of our launch of operations in Uganda which include significant pass-through revenues in primarily single-tenant sites.
Consequently we would expect full year 2012 adjusted EBITDA margins of about 65%.
And as we have seen in other markets we would expect that as we begin leasing our recently acquired tower sites in Uganda operating profit margins could improve ultimately over time to near-U.S.
levels excluding the impact of pass-through.
Turning to AFFO.
We would expect the full increase in our adjusted EBITDA outlook to translate to incremental AFFO.
As a result we are now expecting AFFO to increase to nearly $1.2 billion at the midpoint driving reported growth of over 13% and core growth about 17%.
Turning to Slide 13.
In 2012 we will continue to pursue our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
We are reaffirming our plan to deploy between $500 million and $600 million in CapEx during 2012 which includes spending on the construction of between 1 800 and 2 200 new sites.
Year-to-date we've spent over $650 million on acquisitions and are currently projecting total expenditures for acquisitions for the full year between $700 million and $750 million.
This includes spending through the end of the second quarter plus the payment for the 700 sites in Brazil which we acquired at the end of the second quarter and paid for in July as well as additional capital we have committed to fund the acquisition of approximately 800 sites we believe will close by year end.
Considering these investments and coupled with our expected build program on a pro forma basis we expect to have a total of over 51 000 sites by year end.
Finally in 2012 we continue to project that our primary method of returning capital to shareholders will be our regular dividend which for the full year we now expect will be between $0.87 and $0.90 per share or approximately $350 million at the midpoint reflecting an AFFO payout ratio of about 30%.
In addition year-to-date we have spent about $11 million in our stock repurchase program.
Turning to Slide 14 and in conclusion we had a very successful first half and we believe we have built a strong foundation for the balance of the year.
We've delivered strong growth in revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO for the quarter as a result of robust leasing activity throughout our served markets.
Our international segment continues to perform ahead of our expectations which have outpaced the foreign currency exchange rate headwinds we've experienced year-to-date.
We expect these trends to continue and concurrently we will continue to pursue the acquisition of high-quality assets globally.
We are also focused on disciplined cost control within our business and are expecting cash overhead cost to decline year-over-year as a percent of total revenues.
Overall and as we've experienced historically our existing sites should continue to generate incremental cash flow conversion rates in excess of 80% driving longer-term improvement in our consolidated gross and adjusted EBITDA margins.
We continue to seek to optimize our balance sheet to enhance our financial and operational flexibility and ended the quarter with approximately $2.5 billion in liquidity and leverage of about 3.7x.
As a result of our opportunistic capital raises over the last several years we have also been able to ladder out our debt maturities and have no significant refinancing requirements until mid-2014.
We continue to diversify our sources of capital and most recently raised $750 million through a term loan.
We believe our balance sheet strategy has positioned us well to continue to meaningfully invest in our business on a sustainable basis.
And through our dividend program we are able to maintain what we believe to be an optimal U.S.
tax strategy while also providing our shareholders with a growing dividend stream.
In closing we believe that the combination of our recent investments the underlying leasing trends we discussed our solid balance sheet and our disciplined managing capital and costs have positioned us well to finish 2012 on a high note and continue to deliver strong results going forward.
With that like to turn the call over to Jim.
Jim? Thanks Tom and good morning to everyone on the call.
With 23% tower revenue growth and over 24% core adjusted EBITDA growth during the second quarter our dual strategy to maximize the performance of our U.S.
asset base while expanding into high-growth international markets continues to deliver truly compelling growth for our company.
Our top priority remains to deliver superior expansion in AFFO plus meaningful and growing yield all of which is built on a strong foundation of continuous risk management and mitigation.
Over the past few years here at American Tower we've developed 2 primary core competencies.
The first is effectively operating and growing revenue on multi-tenant communications assets based on our U.S.
experience and expertise.
The second is applying this skill set globally taking advantage of both our U.S.
knowledge base and our decade of experience in Mexico and Brazil.
We pursued our international expansion in a disciplined fashion assessing each potential market using a comprehensive 3-step analysis.
The first step was a thorough review of a country's fundamental investment characteristics.
We specifically evaluate a target market's macroeconomic conditions such as expected GDP growth and inflation political stability a fair business environment a rule of law-based legal system and favorable policies regarding foreign direct investment are also important factors we evaluate to determine whether American Tower can successfully implement our business model over the long term.
Next we evaluate the dynamics of the country's wireless industry.
We specifically seek 3 or more independent and competitive wireless service providers in a market.
We also look for additional attributes that can encourage ongoing network investment such as recent or future spectrum auctions.
For example our expansion into Colombia came on the heels of a 3G spectrum auction where the 3 major incumbents pursued the spectrum necessary for their initial deployments of wireless data networks.
In addition the government-owned carrier UNE is actively deploying a wireless broadband network in Colombia providing even more long-term demand for tower space.
So looking 12 to 18 months out we expect the government will again auction spectrum seeking to encourage an additional market entrant to further drive competition in their wireless market which could develop into yet another contributor to our business growth down the road.
Finally when we identify a country with qualifying political and economic fundamentals and a favorable wireless industry environment we evaluate potential counterparties' attractiveness in terms of operational strength and the financial viability and this applies to the U.S.
as well.
To this end we have focused our expansion efforts around high-quality well-established multinational wireless industry leaders as transaction counterparties venture partners or site leasing customers.
In certain cases our existing relationships have provided us with opportunities to pursue acquisition transactions and master lease agreements across various countries and even continents with these customers.
For example we have acquired thousands of tower sites from Telefónica in both North and South America established commercial leasing agreements with Bharti in India and Africa and engaged in joint ventures with MTN in 2 of our 3 markets in Africa.
Beyond our international expansion efforts we pursued additional avenues for growth through towers and through adjacent communications property classes including land interest Distributed Antenna Systems rooftop management shared generators and power management.
Further we are now exploring the extension of multi-tenant leasing to small cell architectures which would be complementary to our other business lines since 95% of our U.S.
towers cover areas where small cell architectures are technically or economically unfeasible.
Most of these property class extensions are initially developed in the U.S.
and taken to relevant international markets but we're excited to have begun seeing idea generation globally and cross-border collaboration now in multiple dimensions within American Tower.
Each investment decision we make whether it's in the U.S.
or overseas from the launch of a new market to the acquisition of a large or small portfolio of towers is managed through our global investment committee process.
The investment committee here rigorously evaluates each investment opportunity big or small to determine the appropriate risk-adjusted hurdle rates required to compensate us for the transaction-specific risk.
This evaluation involves an analysis of the tenant's credit quality the lease structure as well as the operating cost redevelopment cost and other characteristics relevant to the proposed investment.
We continue to believe that our international domestic and adjacent property class expansion strategies can be sustained within our REIT structure.
And that by utilizing taxable REIT subsidiaries we have the flexibility necessary to sustain our growth trajectory far into the future.
In other words our growth is not limited by our REIT status.
Matching our dedication to striving for growth is our commitment to providing a meaningful and growing dividend to our shareholders as summarized by American Tower's recently adopted motto: Growth plus yield.
As a REIT we have established a regular dividend program and our current dividend yield of 1.3% is consistent with other high revenue growth S&amp;P 500 companies.
Furthermore we intend to grow our dividend at a rate that will exceed our expected AFFO growth.
We plan to deliver attractive dividend growth while simultaneously deploying the substantial cash generated from the business into further accretive investments.
And as Tom mentioned we funded our first half dividend with about 30% of our AFFO leaving 70% to invest in the business.
To ensure we have a solid foundation from which we can grow both our AFFO and our dividend we continually challenge our own fundamental businesses assumptions and then seek to proactively manage and mitigate risk throughout our company.
For example while we strongly believe that our U.S.
tower leasing business will experience consistent incremental demand from our tenant base well into the future we do continuously monitor key U.S.
wireless industry metrics and we take tangible steps to guard against any unanticipated contingencies.
Among our fundamental assumptions that support continuing strong demand for U.S.
tower space are: first the rapid consumer adoption of advanced data services is going to continue that this will translate into higher profitability for the carriers who will then in turn be incentivized to continue their wireless network capital investments; and most importantly to lease additional tower space from us.
Our thesis continues to be supported by the strong operational metrics which are being demonstrated by our major customers as they continue to increase the penetration of smartphones and tablets.
AT&amp;T and Verizon recently reported second quarter results with record EBITDA margins as data revenues continue to drive the vast majority of their top line growth.
Verizon Wireless also highlighted that as subscribers migrate from 3G to 4G devices Verizon will benefit from improvements in both operating and capital efficiency as a result of the lower-cost 4G platform.
We think that'll keep motivating Verizon and others to keep investing in their networks.
Furthermore each of the 4 largest U.S.
wireless carriers that include AT&amp;T Verizon Wireless Sprint and T-Mobile USA have publicly committed to achieve nearly nationwide 4G LTE network coverage somewhere between the 2013 to 2015 time frame.
Once full coverage is in place for each of these carriers at the conclusion of their first deployment phase we anticipate that each will further use cell splitting and site augmentation during the typical phases 2 and 3 of such deployments and that those phases will run out many years into the future.
In spite of all the supportive evidence for increasing demand for tower space in the U.S.
we also take active steps to help ensure steady robust revenue growth and to essentially protect the company against even a modest or temporary downside risk to the expected upward revenue trajectory.
For example we've established a comprehensive master lease agreement structure with 2 of our largest customers in the U.S.
which seeks to eliminate our exposure to any significant and potential future downside risk with those 2 customers.
These new MLAs typically include 10-year contract extensions and they eliminate all churn or decommissioning risk.
Turning to our international expansion efforts.
Our primary risk mitigation characteristic is that we are simply extending and adapting our well-established and time-tested business practices and our intellectual property from our U.S.
and our legacy Latin American markets to additional geographies.
American Tower's corporate staff and regions are solely and completely devoted to the business of multi-tenant communications site leasing.
It's all that we do.
And in entering a new market we transfer experienced management talent long-established operational processes and highly customized IT systems to that market naturally mitigating new country risk right from the start.
Plus we focus on well-regarded multinational telecom leaders as our customers and counterparties in those international markets.
Moreover we put heavy emphasis on securing assets at reasonable purchase prices based on our risk-adjusted return criteria and that applies to acquisitions in the United States as well.
Another important part of our risk management program is our approach to balance sheet management and financial leverage that Tom was describing.
We believe our ability to continue our growth momentum even in periods of global economic uncertainty results from our disciplined approach to the company's capital structure.
We maintain committed to our stated target leverage range of 3x to 5x net debt to annualized EBITDA and we believe that maintaining our leverage within that range maintains our access to high-grade low-cost credit markets.
That in turn enables us to have access to capital to pursue strategic growth initiatives throughout the business cycle in good times and bad.
We've found that investments which we make during such periods of uncertainty in financial markets can yield the greatest opportunities for superior returns in our business.
In closing both our domestic and international segments' core business performance continues to exceed our original expectations for 2012.
These strong results along with the impact of recent acquisitions are more than offsetting the foreign currency effects that we're forecasting for the full year.
We have consciously positioned ourselves to maintain our strong growth trajectory post-REIT conversion and this is important we've positioned ourselves to maintain our strong growth trajectory post-REIT conversion by the following 3 actions: Number one we've established an early presence in high-growth international markets that we believe cannot be duplicated by any other tower company; 2 we focus on driving substantial AFFO growth from both our domestic and our international operations which will enable us to meet our REIT dividend requirements while continuing to invest significant cash back into growth for the business; and third by maintaining a strong balance sheet that's going to continue to provide us access we think to investment grade credit markets into the future.
As a result of these 3 attributes we feel we're well positioned to deliver strong performance throughout 2012 and to continue to drive our growth strategy into 2013 and beyond even as a REIT.
We're striving to deliver superior growth plus yield over the long term all on a solid foundation of active risk management and mitigation.
And with that operator you can open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Batya Levi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First off if I could ask about your level of discussions with T-Mobile your peer announced a deal with them.
How do you think about signing up a new master lease agreement with them? And if you would if these discussions are based on the prior 2 MLAs that you signed with the 2 carriers or would you consider to do a deal as touch as you go? And second question I had was if you could delve a little bit into the organic growth in the U.S.
I think you had mentioned that it was about 8.5% in the first quarter and now it looks like it's about 7%.
Do you expect that to accelerate going forward given the strong demand or how should we think about it going forward? So this is Jim and I'll turn over the second question to Tom.
Regarding our commercial arrangements with T-Mobile or any other customer I think we don't comment on potential ongoing negotiations with any specific customer.
But our history has been that we've been able to find common ground with our major carrier customers that are entering large deployments and we'll expect to be doing that with T-Mobile as well.
And Batya on the U.S.
side on core growth we would expect kind of for the full year in that 9% range.
So pretty consistent with where we are in the -- from the first half and relative to core organic growth which is that growth coming from existing sites we are about 7% -- just over 7% in the second quarter and I would expect that to be at the same level in the third and the fourth quarters.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Tom you talked about the dividend growth and the dividend payout ratio.
Can you just update us on where we are with the NOLs and feathering that through? And how should we think about the next 2 or 3 years your sort of dividend policy and how you use the NOLs? And then there's been a lot of headlines out of India about sort of regulatory issues licensed re-auctioning and so forth perhaps you could just update us on what's been going on there? Obviously you've had some very strong leasing activity there but just give us some sense of what the current status is as regards your business in India.
Yes.
Sure Simon I'll take the first one and then Jim can take the second one.
With regards to our dividends as you saw in my script and Jim referred to it as well we're looking at in 2012 kind of a payout between $0.87 and $0.90 per share about $350 million.
We entered the year with just over $1 billion of NOLs and I would expect that we won't use – we'll use than $200 million of NOLs in 2012.
And keep in mind I'll caveat that by saying there's still half of the year to go and there's still a lot of things that can go on within the second half of the year but kind of my current forecast is that we'll use less than a couple hundred million dollars.
So you can kind of continue that forward and get a sense of what future years might bring.
It may accelerate a bit but our overall dividend payout remains the same that we would expect it to grow faster than AFFO growth which we're targeting it's our goal to have that continue at that mid-teen growth over time.
Yes Simon it's Jim.
Specific to India again to put our international markets in context we have a diversification a global diversification strategy in place.
So just to provide the baseline India is about 10% of our tower it's about 7% of our revenue and it's performing quite well this year as Tom indicated.
Based on that context we are well aware of the developments going on in India from a regulatory perspective and actually planned for not exactly this but something like this to happen meaning that the large incumbent carriers would drive the business over time in that country.
And so we started out in India focusing on those large incumbent carriers.
And today they generate over 90% of our revenues.
The licenses that are expected to be re-auctioned are almost exclusively with smaller new entrant carriers.
Our exposure to the carriers that we don't think will rebid and re-stand up their license is less than 0.5% of American Tower's revenue base and we already reserved for that in the first quarter so we don't have exposure to the re-auction.
In fact when the spectrum gets recast to new bidders we think it'll actually help our business going forward because those bidders will have the financial wherewithal to actually deploy it.
Your next question comes from James Ratcliffe of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Sandeep Gupta in for James Ratcliffe.
Just more a strategy question.
One of the manufacturers of base station equipment recently said that they're now shipping more micro base stations than macro base stations.
This is first time in the history of wireless.
Could you kind of comment on what does that mean for the tower business and how do you view that? Sure Sandeep.
This is Jim.
That's not a surprising statistic at all given the very small radii and lower -- much lower cost for these types of base stations.
At some point they're going to be more prolific just because of the low cost and again small radii.
But that doesn't necessarily affect the macro network at all.
As I pointed out in my remarks 95% of our towers are outside of urban and near-urban environments which really the only ones that makes sense technically and economically for a carrier to deploy such small micro sites.
So we see this as something that's actually helpful so that the carriers can handle the cost requirement of serving really really dense urban markets but were just simply not providing towers at this point.
That'll enable the carriers to be able to care for the whole network both inside and outside of cities more efficiently.
So we actually applaud these kind of products coming on the market.
The next question comes from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple questions now I guess I'll take a crack at the T-Mo question maybe from a different angle around the MLA.
Just maybe stepping back generally when you're negotiating an MLA with a carrier that has been an M&amp;A target before I guess my question is are you more focused on getting paid for the upside as it relates to amendment activity or are you more focused on protecting your downside risk from decommissioning? Just maybe help us with what the framework is.
And then second question just as it relates to sort of global macro volatility.
We've obviously seen some pretty big FX fluctuations some pretty large country volatility.
Does this change your appetite from here for international expansion or should we assume that the majority of your expansion really continues to be international? Jason it's Jim.
On negotiations again with any individual customer we don't necessarily get into the details of that.
But what I can say is that a carrier that has been or may in the future be a merger acquisition target as part of a theoretical industry consolidation we would actually try to optimize between the upside on growth and preventing all or close to all of the potential downside of any kind of merger or other type of churn events.
So I mean I think that's one of our core competencies frankly is we have had a track record of finding a pretty good place to balance between achieving upside and essentially eliminating downside and that's both inside and outside the U.S.
and that's what we're going to continue to do.
And on the second question we remain incredibly excited about what we're seeing in the international markets.
I mean what we saw in terms of foreign currency impacts in the second quarter again largely translation impacts coming through on intercompany balances that's how we principally fund our international investments and we were even able to offset the impacts of the strengthening of the dollar in the second quarter and we continue to believe we'll do that for the balance of the year.
And so if you take a look for the last couple years in terms of where the dollar and local currency was I mean it kind of goes the other way.
So we believe that we continually invest the money that we're generating in international markets back into the international markets.
The revenue and expenses are in local currencies and we're really excited about a lot of the trends that we're seeing in terms of new growth in terms of new market entrants continued deployment of new technologies and the rapid demand by which our counterparties are building out their networks.
Yes.
And as a final reminder Jason we risk adjust up from the U.S.
baselines all of our hurdle rates outside the U.S.
base on things like historical foreign currency volatility and so those inputs will be adjusted appropriately and we'll have to hit those hurdle rates to make further investments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then are there any structural considerations as it relates to REITs and sort of the TRS structure that these assets sit in there with slow international growth or are we a long ways from that? No I mean as Jim mentioned I mean the construct for the whole REIT environment gives us flexibility in terms of what we have in the REIT and what we keep in the taxable REIT structure.
And as we've mentioned in the past what we have in taxable REIT structure is real estate.
So to the extent that we ever did start to trigger some of the asset test that we have within the REIT structure we would be able to move the TRSs or the assets internationally into the REIT and we would then be looking to distribute out the taxable income 90% of the taxable income in those that's generated from that asset that we brought into the REIT out to our shareholders but it would continually give us headroom to continue growth in our international markets.
And that's how many REITs actually manage their international structure.
Most of the REITs that have international assets actually have those assets in the REIT itself and so that's definitely a part of the strategy for us to the extent that as I said we trigger some of those tests.
The next question comes from Jonathan Atkin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I wondered in your international markets in which regions would your M&amp;A pipelines most likely be weighted as well as your new tower construction.
I think you indicated earlier on some of the new construction that might be more kind of Latin America.
And then with regard to India I wondered if there's any kind of color you can provide on the power issues of just this week and then how that might be affecting the business if at all on the cost side.
Jonathan it's Jim.
The M&amp;A pipeline is active in all of our markets.
The timing and probability of each potential deal of course varies.
But we've got the same level of emphasis internally on each region.
Now having said that Latin America we do have sites with Millicom/Tigo in that market that we expect to close over the course of this year that's in the presentation that Tom mentioned earlier.
And we've got irons in the fire in every other region as well.
So there's really not much specific to say because we don't comment on any speculation regarding specific transactions that might be in progress whether that's the U.S.
or overseas.
But the emphasis is there the liquidity is definitely there that Tom pointed out and we're active and interested.
On the construction side India has provided a lot of opportunity for what we think will be lucrative construction opportunities.
The big carriers like Vodafone or Reliance are pushing most of that and we're building towers for them and others as well.
Latin America pretty active and less so in Africa but we're ramping up our Build-to-Suit program there.
So I would put those a batting order at the moment of being India; secondly Latin America; third EMEA outside the U.S.
and we also are going to be building a few hundred towers inside the U.S.
On the power issue we are focused and actually have centers of excellence in South Africa and India on power management which is again I think becoming one of our core competencies in the company.
We don't have any reports from our team of issues with our power system because we have backup power at every site in India.
Those tend to run at least part of the day and we're positioned to make sure that that continues.
So while from a cost perspective that is essentially passed through to the customer in India so it won't affect us directly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you remind us the bad debt expense this quarter and how that typically has ranged in prior quarters? And there is the exposure that you currently have that you're recognizing for bad debt.
In which regions is that most attributable? There's no significant changes in this quarter versus prior in terms of bad debt.
I did mention that we did have the reversal of that one bad debt item down in Mexico relative to a reserve that we had created a number of years ago when that particular customer was going through a restructuring.
It was both an expense and a revenue impact.
Other than that nothing.
Jim had mentioned in India that we've actually cared for the 4 carriers there that we don't believe we'll be continuing to operate in that particular market.
And that overall had a revenue impact in the year probably between $3 million and $4 million which as Jim mentioned we've largely cared for already in the first half and is obviously part of our ongoing forecast.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally if you could maybe just update us on your Distributor Antenna System initiatives for both indoor and outdoor? Sure Jon.
Quickly the indoor program continues the pace.
I think we're up to 250 locations now in United States.
We've got half a dozen or so up and running in Latin America and we're starting to implement a few in both India and Africa.
So that's maintaining our industry leadership.
And then on the outdoor side we've got about 400 nodes in the U.S and we've added about 20% of the portfolio this year.
We'll keep pacing that as well.
We maintain our disciplined view of again any asset investment and outdoor DAS fits squarely into that disciplined view which is we'll build them when we think we can hit the return or exceed it but we are also careful about overbuilding and we avoid that.
Next question comes from George Auerbach of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Tom you mentioned on the call that -- in your prepared remarks that the adjusted EBITDA margins could decline a bit to about 65% for the full year.
Can you just give us your thoughts on how that rebounds going into 2013 and beyond? Yes a couple thoughts.
I think it's also a function overall of kind of the conversion rates.
We're George in kind of a major area of expansion at this point in time.
And I think the conversion rates going forward at the gross margin level particularly when you take out pass-through will be in that kind of 80% to 85% range of increasing.
And EBITDA margin rates continually at the rate that we are expanding I would say in the mid to upper 60s.
I believe that SG&amp;A expense as I've mentioned in the past kind of peaked at around that 10% level the cash SG&amp;A cost last year.
And we'll see a decline in that this year.
And as a percentage of revenue and as we continue to add to the revenue stream I think we've built the foundation to be able to see and enjoy continued declines in SG&amp;A cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue.
So I think that will help drive up the margins longer term to kind of north of the 65% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you talking about the dollar amount of the Brazilian acquisition that I guess closed at the end of the second quarter? And how should we think about your -- how you're going to fund that acquisition? It's already been funded.
As a result of the structure that we've had in place we have a pretty significant amount of liquidity in a form of revolvers in place as well as a term loan that we just put in place.
So that deal has been funded really from cash on hand.
And as I mentioned before we closed in the second quarter.
And as you identified we actually paid for it in July.
Research Division</strong> And what was the total size of that acquisition? Around the $150-million range slightly less.
Next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
Can you discuss for a moment your capital allocation strategy? Your leverage has fallen to about 3.7x and obviously the Journal article last night suggested that Crown was the front runner for the T-Mo assets.
If they do acquire these properties should we expect you to resume the buyback or would you rather continue to delever the balance sheet or should we expect other large deals in the pipeline? I think I just kind of refer back to the comments that I made in my remarks Kevin.
I mean our capital allocation strategy has been consistent since the day I arrived here and was in place prior to that.
And it is first looking back to reinvest back into our business.
We have a required dividend.
That is our principal way of returning capital to our shareholders.
We will continue to look at acquisitions wherever they may be globally in the U.S.
as well as international.
And we have our buyback program.
We're doing everything within the construct of our risk-adjusted hurdle rates as well as our capital structure and we're very committed to our 3x to 5x net debt to EBITDA.
We have a tremendous amount of liquidity that we have available to us.
And to the extent that there are opportunities to invest in the form of acquisitions going forward that meet our risk-adjusted hurdle rates then we will look to returning cash back to shareholders using the share repurchase program.
It's pretty simple.
But just as a quick follow-up obviously your cost of funding in the debt markets continues to fall to record levels and your competitors have seemed to take up leverage toward the high end of their targeted range.
You're going to be -- you're below the midpoint of it and could be toward the low end within a couple quarters.
How do you feel about taking on more leverage given how robust the credit markets are for you both secured and unsecured right now? Kevin this is Jim Taiclet.
We don't vary our leverage target based on financing costs.
We work within our range and we consistently do that and we've got a 5- to 10-year time horizon for that range.
And the reason the range is set where it is is so that we can implement our growth strategy at the appropriate time with the appropriate transaction.
And that may be in a tight period of credit markets as we talked about.
So driving leverage to the high end of our range when we don't necessarily need to doesn't really fit within our strategy simply because the rates are cheap.
But what I will say is the global opportunity set that we can offer by having capabilities to transact really anywhere in the world allows us to pick and choose when we invest.
We don't have to stretch in any market for example the U.S.
for a big or a small deal because we've got global aperture and we can look at opportunities anywhere and we've executed on those in 4 continents now.
At the end of the day if we are coming through a period of time where the opportunities aren't that robust at least the ones that meet our hurdle rates we will buy back stock.
And Tom already mentioned that.
I want to reiterate it.
But it's based on again an -- essentially an ongoing optimization of the opportunity set our leverage and we do take financing cost into consideration as part of that.
It's really an integrated capital allocation strategy and it doesn't hinge on one thing like interest rates.
Next question comes from Lukas Hartwich of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim can you talk about how you think about the risk that network sharing becomes a bigger deal here in the U.S.? Well network sharing is part of our risk assessment of every market.
And based on regulatory requirements for auctions and allocated spectrum based on the competitiveness of the major carriers and based on the short and unsuccessful history of attempts to do this in the past in the U.S.
we don't see it as a high-level risk for our company.
In fact I would put it in the not material area given what we know today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe comment on why it seems to be different in Europe? Europe's a different situation than the United States probably one that we don't have time to cover today Lukas so why don't we take that offline and we can do a comparison for you.
But the headlines are that Europe is an over-built network situation versus the U.S.
which is an under-built network situation but we can offer more color if you want to get back to us after the call.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi.
Research Division</strong> If I look at the slide on the total rental and management revenue guidance and I compare it to the last quarter what I found really interesting was the internal existing site revenue growth guidance improved roughly 25%.
And I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what drove that incrementally relative to what you would have thought 3 months ago? Because I think of this business as a very visible business based on your history over the years.
And then curious if you can just break that down between what you saw incrementally in the domestic segment versus the international segment.
Sure Mike.
I mean you're exactly right.
I mean our -- looking from outlook to outlook we're probably up by $25 million or $30 million in existing sites and up to $10 million to $15 million in new sites.
So that's principally driving what my remarks that I had made before in terms of the outperformance driving the FX impacts and the delay if you will Uganda late closing.
The international piece – or let me start with the U.S.
piece.
The U.S.
piece probably makes up about 1/3 of that or about $10 million.
And that's a function of a couple things.
One is the pipeline of activity that we see and the leasing activity that we see in the second quarter as a result in addition to some churn that we actually expected early in the year which we're now -- is pushed out later in the year.
So that's going to drive $10-plus million of it.
On the international side we do have the 700 additional sites that we picked up in the acquisition in Brazil.
We do have outperformance in Asia as well as in Africa both in South Africa and Ghana that are helping to drive that.
We also have the reserve in that company in Mexico that we reflected in the second quarter that's now part of our overall guidance.
So overall we have about $45 million $46 million of incremental new business that's offsetting the FX impacts in that Uganda late closing.
And as I said before it's kind of 25% is in the United States with the balance happening outside of the United States.
Hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> And if you look at this over a multiyear period are we seeing a new level of internal growth for you or do you think that there's some onetime or sort of timing benefits that this year might be receiving? Well I think longer term as we've said in the past we would expect our international core organic growth to increase.
One of the ways that we show it is showing organic core growth a function of sites that we acquired more than 12 months ago.
Well many of those sites now are starting to come into the existing site organic growth.
So where the U.S.
is in as we talked about before in a question kind of in that 7% 8% 6% to 8% kind of range I would expect the international to be up in the 10% to 13% just because of the newness of the markets new technology being deployed and the fact that they're either 1 or 2 generations of technology behind the United States.
That's what makes them so exciting for us.
So perhaps the ongoing core organic growth should increase a bit.
And then the new sites is a function of acquisitions that we have in the pipeline and that's very difficult to project.
Your final question comes from Rick Prentiss of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones if I could.
First Tom I think you said on the EBITDA guidance update that about $20 million from the international side it was like I guess $9 million from the Mexican reserve reversal and then were the 11 -- were the other $11 million from the Brazil 700 sites? Let me just go through that again Rick.
I mean what we're saying is we're raising the overall EBITDA guidance by about $10 million and we're eating through $24 million of additional FX headwinds and about $3 million as a result of the delayed closing Uganda so about $27 million.
So overall we're increasing our kind of core EBITDA by about $37 million if you will.
About $13 million of that is coming from our domestic rental and management segment.
We have about $5 million coming from our services business and the balance is coming kind of across the board from our international segments.
The piece that you mentioned in terms of the reserve on the company in Mexico is a piece of that but we're also seeing incremental activity from our other markets as a result of outperformance in addition to the activity in Brazil as a result of that recent acquisition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question the land CapEx guidance was down I think about $20 million from the prior view.
Is it getting tougher to get the land? Just kind of what would cause the land program to kind of diminish a little bit? And remind us do you have any of those land deals out there or not land deals but do you have any of your tower deals out there that have tails at the end of them as far as having to take out the sale-leaseback component with a future payment? Yes Rick it's Jim.
On the land CapEx the best way to characterize it is a mix variation right? So some quarters our teams are going to have more success on the extension side of things which is not going to show up in CapEx.
Other quarters they're going to have more success based on the landlords they happen to talk to that quarter on actual sale of the land to us which we'll show in CapEx.
So as Tom was saying I mean we've done all together 5 000 extensions or purchases or easements over the past couple of years and that mix can change quarter-to-quarter and that's why you see the variation there.
As far as sale-leasebacks that we have done as a corporation we have one with SBC now AT&amp;T that we brought on with the SpectraSite acquisition.
We've also got Alltel that's now of course owned by Verizon and we have AirTouch also owned by Verizon.
So there are 3 of those.
I think the total tower count is about 4 200 across those out of the 22 000 or so we have in the United States total.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there an NPV kind of of what the current payment is? I mean it's probably like 20 30 years out? It is.
I mean on the Alltel sites it's about $100 million and on the AT&amp;T sites it's about $500 million.
Okay with that I think we are finished and conclude for the day.
I really appreciate your attention this morning.
To the extent that anybody has any further questions please give Leah or myself a call.
We'll be here.
And again really appreciate your attention.
Thanks very much.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Geneva and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the [Technical Difficulty] I will provide a brief overview of our first quarter results.
Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our performance for the quarter and provide an update of our expectations for 2011.
Finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2011 outlook our pending acquisitions our consideration to elect real estate investment trust status our stock repurchase program and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides the summary of our first quarter 2011 results.
Highlights from the first quarter included a 23.2% growth in total Rental and Management revenues to $546.7 million adjusted EBITDA growth of 21.1% to $377.1 million operating income growth of 22.1% to $218.3 million and a 4.7% decrease in our income from continuing operations to $92 million or $0.23 per basic and diluted common share.
The decrease in net income was primarily due to an increase in the effective tax rate this quarter.
During the first quarter of 2010 our tax provision was reduced by approximately $33 million as a result of onetime restructuring activities in Latin America.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom Bartlett who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Garth and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that our business produced solid results in the first quarter.
If you please turn to Slide 5 you will see that for the first quarter our total Rental and Management revenue increased 23.2% to $547 million.
Adjusting for the impact of FX straight line and a couple of onetime items accumulating to $1.6 million in revenue that occurred during the first quarter core growth in total Rental and Management revenues was approximately 18.5%.
Turning to Slide 6.
I thought it'd be helpful to highlight some of the specific items that generated the growth in our first quarter versus last year.
Contractual escalations accounted for approximately $18 million of incremental revenue or about 4% of the Rental and Management revenue growth for the quarter.
The base rents under MLA were escalated last year when one contract was executed and the annual escalator was moved forward to January of each year.
Organic growth in our existing Tower portfolio as a result of new co-location and amendment activity accounted for about $24 million of incremental revenues in the quarter.
And between the fourth quarter of 2009 and the end of the first quarter of 2011 we added over 9 900 new sites.
New run rate revenue from these sites in the quarter accounted for about $47 million.
And as expected our turn was approximately $12 million.
Finally the U.S.
dollar has weakened against most of the currencies in the markets in which we operate and our straight-line revenue increased as a result of the new MLA we signed.
These factors combined with other items generated a benefit of approximately $26 million so around $103 million of incremental revenue in the quarter.
I hope that detail was helpful.
Turning to Slide 7 continuing with some highlights relative to our Domestic Rental and Management segment for the first quarter of 2011.
Revenue increased 12.9% to just under $418 million.
For the first quarter our Domestic Rental and Management segment gross margin increased $41.8 million or 14.3% which reflects a year-over-year conversion rate of approximately 88%.
And excluding the impact of FX straight-line lease accounting and onetime items our core growth and revenue was 10.1%.
And as you can see our profit margin in our Domestic segment increased 76%.
Turning to Slide 8.
As expected our International Rental and Management segment also produced strong results during the first quarter of 2011 generating year-over-year revenue growth of 75%.
Between the fourth quarter of 2009 and the end of the first quarter we have added over 8 900 towers to our international site portfolio including 5 320 in India 2 643 in Latin America and 959 sites in South Africa.
The new tower sites we have added in India Brazil and South Africa themselves accounted for approximately $35 million of the incremental revenue growth of this quarter.
In several of our international markets as many as you already know we passed through ground rent and in India and South Africa fuel cost to our customers.
Pass-through revenues totaled approximately $19 million and $33 million in the first quarter of 2010 and 2011 respectively which is an increase of about $14 million.
Our International Rental and Management segment gross margin increased 62% year-over-year to $87.9 million which reflects a 68% gross margin.
And excluding the impacts of our pass-through revenue our International segment gross margin would have been 92%.
Further our year-over-year international gross margin conversion rate for the quarter was 61%.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenues our gross margin conversion rate would have been over 80%.
The international sites which we have acquired or constructed typically have from 1 to 1 1/2  tenants per tower and as a result have gross margins below those of our Domestic segment.
We believe these investments in both our legacy and new international markets provide us with the benefits of diversification as well as opportunities to participate in the higher growth markets.
Further we believe there is tremendous potential as we lease these sites up and become more efficient operationally post start up to drive future margin growth.
Finally our International Rental and Management segment increased operating profit by 55% to $70.4 million.
Our segment SG&amp;A increased by $8.5 million to $17.5 million as we expanded into our new markets like Chile Colombia Ghana Peru and South Africa as well as expanding our existing operations in India.
In Ghana for example we've had a team in place throughout the first quarter in anticipation of the formation of the joint venture.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the first quarter of 2010 was 21.1% with our core growth for the quarter at 13.5% on a currency neutral basis excluding the impact of straight-line lease accounting and onetime items.
During the first quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was approximately 67% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was about 61% which as we discussed on the last slide included the impacts of international pass-through revenue which negatively impacted our conversion rate by about 8 to 9 percentage points.
Excluding the impact of pass-through our adjusted EBITDA margin would have been just over 71%.
As outlined on Slide 10 during the first quarter we continued our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
We invested almost $840 million during the quarter.
We built 240 sites and acquired over 1 880 sites.
The total purchase price for the acquired sites was approximately $769 million of which $617 million was paid to the sellers in Q1 the balance of which will likely be paid in Q2.
The sites we acquired in Brazil are high performing towers and the multiple pay was in the range of 12x to 13x adjusted EBITDA.
We invested almost $98 million in CapEx.
The discretionary element included $57 million of spending primarily related to the construction of approximately 240 new sites and $21 million paid for land.
Finally consistent with our capital allocation strategy we repurchased about 2.4 million shares of our common stock for $123 million during the quarter and 2.9 million shares for $147 million year-to-date as of April 22 2011 pursuant to our stock repurchase program established by our Board of Directors in 2008.
As of April 22 of this year we have repurchased a total of 32.7 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate of $1.3 billion pursuant to the 2008 buyback program.
And as you recall in March of this year our Board approved a new $1.5 billion stock buyback program.
Turning to Slide 11.
We continue to aggressively expand and grow our business both domestically and internationally.
Since the fourth quarter of 2009 we've acquired and built over 1 000 sites in the U.S.
Over that period we have also spent over $100 million acquiring land under our towers.
We believe there continues to be opportunities to invest in and grow this segment of our business.
And internationally as of Q1 we have acquired and built over 8 900 sites since the fourth quarter of 2009.
In the first quarter of this year alone we have added over 2 000 sites.
If we close on the sites under contract that we've included in our guidance and complete our forecasted builds in 2011 we project that we will have close to 18 000 international sites representing approximately 45% of our portfolio by the end of the year.
We have selected the international markets entered because we view them as having relatively stable political environments growing economies and a wireless market with a sufficient number of operators and spectrum to support an independent tower industry.
However in many of these markets we are the only independent tower operator and we believe that we provide our investors with the unique and diversified opportunity to invest in the growth of international wireless services.
Due to the aggressive build program and co-location activity the total growth in our International segment has outpaced that of our Domestic segment and further broadens our growth opportunities.
During the first quarter we closed on an initial 959 sites from Cell C the third largest carrier in South Africa.
We expect to acquire about 400 additional existing towers and up to 1 800 other sites that are either under construction or will be constructed over the next two years or so.
We had previously announced that we are buying up to 565 sites in Brazil for a purchase price of approximately $420 million subject to post-closing adjustments.
These are very attractive sites concentrated in and around Sao Paulo.
Following our due diligence and review process there were another 62 sites that we agreed to buy bringing the total sites purchased to 627.
There may be up to an additional 40 sites under construction that we will acquire over the next several months.
Over the course of the period between the initial negotiations that began nearly a year ago and the actual closing date the EBITDA on the sites has increased.
As a result of the higher number of towers and greater EBITDA achieved the aggregate purchase price increased to approximately $553 million.
We are in the process of completing the closing on an initial tranche of 400 sites from MTN in Ghana.
As announced previously we have partnered with MTN in Ghana and under the terms of the JV we will have operational control and own a 51% stake.
We currently expect to close on an additional 500 sites from MTN in the third quarter.
Our agreement calls for up to a total of 1 876 sites to be purchased.
Having closed on an initial 116 sites in Q1 last week we closed on an additional 171 and we also plan to acquire another 50 to 60 sites associated with our agreements with Telefónica in Chile and Colombia by the end of the third quarter.
And as we have previously disclosed we acquired 140 sites from VTR in Chile in the early part of the first quarter.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our investment strategy and capital allocation process continues to drive growth in cash flow and return on invested capital.
We have delivered compounded annual growth and recurring free cash flow and recurring free cash flow per share of 17% and 19% respectively over the past several years.
Our recurring free cash flow per share in the first quarter was $0.62 per share an increase of 12.7%.
And we have increased our return on invested capital by approximately 165 basis points over the same historical period.
Turning to Slide 13.
There has been a lot of discussion in the market about the impact on the tower sector from carrier consolidation.
We have previously provided specific metrics on the AT&amp;T/T-Mobile transaction like the fact that T-Mobile comprised 8% of total 2010 revenues and that there are approximately 3 100 sites where T-Mobile has co-located on a tower with AT&amp;T on our towers.
As we have stated the total revenue from T-Mobile on those 3 100 sites was about 4% of our 2010 revenues of approximately $2 billion and that the weighted average remaining contracted length that's the period until the carrier can elect to terminate the contracts is about 5 to 6 years for T-Mobile and 9 to 10 years for AT&amp;T.
In our view the AT&amp;T/T-Mobile transaction needs to be looked at in the broader context of the demand wireless carriers continue to face from their customers.
Slide 13 shows some estimates provided to us by wireless industry experts.
New devices and smartphones tablet and other wireless-enabled devices combined with bandwidth-intensive new applications are driving exponential growth in network traffic as AT&amp;T and Verizon themselves have pointed out in the recent calls with investors.
Over the next three years alone the number of smartphone users are expected to double.
The carriers are in the process of deploying new 4G equipment to service this demand.
However in our opinion the latest generation of equipment while offering substantial improvements in meeting capacity needs cannot meet all future wireless demands.
And as a result we believe the carriers will have to deploy more towers and equipment over time to meet this demand.
In our view the U.S.
market can support 3 to 4 nationwide wireless networks.
The combined AT&amp;T/T-Mobile entity will have the financial wherewithal and spectrum position to enable it to deploy a dense and robust 4G network.
As a result we believe there will continue to be strong demand for our towers and that any non-renewal of existing contracts in future years will be offset by incremental lease up and amendment activity as AT&amp;T works to support customer demand.
Turning to Slide 14.
We are adjusting our outlook for Rental and Management revenue growth for 2011 to reflect two tower acquisitions and revisions to our forecasted FX rates.
As noted earlier we closed on 627 sites in Brazil during the quarter and we plan to close soon on 400 sites in Ghana and under our 51% owned JV.
We expect to close on an additional 500 sites with MTN in the third quarter.
As a result we are raising our forecasted 2011 revenues by approximately $100 million.
This includes about $47 million of incremental pass-through revenues related to our new sites in Brazil and Ghana.
In Ghana although we only plan to close on initially 400 sites we have agreed to manage the entire remaining portfolio for MTN prior to adding those towers to the joint venture and we'll recognize pass-through revenue and expense across the entire portfolio.
We have also adjusted the FX rates in our outlook as the U.S.
dollars continue to decline against the currencies in several of the markets in which we operate.
In addition and as a result we are raising our outlook for 2011 adjusted EBITDA by $40 million.
Consequently our Rental and Management revenues and adjusted EBITDA are forecasted to grow about 20% and 15% respectively year-over-year.
Let me point out that the pass-through revenue is now expected to increase $83 million in 2011 versus 2010 to a total of about $182 million which represents about 4% of the 2011 revenue growth.
And at the adjusted EBITDA level without pass-through the margin will be about 70% to 71% consistent with prior years calculated on the same basis.
We continue to estimate that our Domestic Rental and Management segment will grow by roughly 8% to 9% year-over-year the vast majority of which will come from organic growth.
And we expect that our International segment will continue to generate solid organic growth while also experiencing strong contributions from our recent expansion activities in anticipated acquisitions.
As a result we are currently projecting our International segment to contribute just over 25% of our total Rental and Management revenue for the full year with segment revenue growth of about 70%.
Turning to Slide 15.
Let me walk you through our current view of our 2011 investment profile.
We started the year with over $880 million of cash in the balance sheet.
We estimate based on our revised outlook that our cash from operations will be just under $1.1 billion.
Assuming we maintained our net leverage based on a net debt to EBITDA target of 3.5x we could raise an additional $220 million of incremental debt.
We would then have about $2.2 billion to invest over the course of 2011.
On the Use side our plan calls for CapEx of $400 million to $450 million.
Based on our completed and committed acquisitions that we've included in our outlook we have funding commitments of about $900 million and as I already mentioned as of April 22 we bought back $147 million of our stock this year pursuant to our 2008 approved stock repurchase program.
Netting all these items out we would have up to $700 million of incremental capital to deploy.
In addition during the quarter we have executed a new $860 million 5-year revolving unsecured supplemental credit facility which may be increased to up to $1 billion.
Our existing $1.25 billion credit facility which had $175 million drawn at the end of the first quarter and $325 million term loan facility which are still both in place mature in June of 2012.
Turning to Slide 16.
Before I close I also wanted to highlight some important brief updates.
First we are very pleased to announce that we have received a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS with respect to the application of certain significant requalification test to our assets and operations.
Our tax team has worked very hard to obtain this ruling but is only one element of the tax due diligence that we continue to work through.
Second we have further refined our estimates such that we believe our accumulated earnings and profits or E&amp;P should be no more than $200 million by the end of 2011.
This number could vary if our actual 2011 earnings and profits generated differs from our estimates.
The actual form amount and timing of a special distribution if any related to E&amp;P will be determined by our Board of Directors.
And we continue to actively evaluate making an election to a REIT and continue to believe that it is the optimal tax strategy for our operations given the nature of our assets and business.
Our goal in 2011 continues to be to position ourselves to qualify as a REIT commencing January 1 2012.
We are continuing to finalize our tax due diligence and we are also working to ensure that our systems and processes are REIT-ready as of year end.
And please note there is no guarantee that we will ultimately elect REIT status.
Any election is subject to Board approval and finally any determination to elect REIT status will not be made until late in the second half of 2011.
Turning to Slide 17 and in conclusion we have had a very successful first quarter and believe we have built a strong foundation for the rest of the year.
And with respect to our balance sheet our net leverage remains at the low end of our target range and at the end of the first quarter we had about $1 billion of liquidity available under our old credit facility and almost $360 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand.
And as I mentioned we also have full availability under our new supplemental credit facility and we expect that we will continue to opportunistically seek access to the capital markets to further ladder and extend our maturities.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Tom and good morning to everyone on the call.
With over 23% tower revenue growth and over 21% adjusted EBITDA growth in the first quarter American Tower demonstrated that our strategy as executed by our people can deliver truly compelling results.
These results also reinforce the attractiveness of our unique position as a leading player in both the U.S.
and international arenas.
In the first quarter our international markets contributed 24% of the company's Rental and Management segment revenue with an impressive 40% of the combined segments growth in operating profit.
By taking advantage of opportunities in both the domestic U.S.
and select global wireless markets we believe that we are maximizing our two key metrics to drive shareholder value.
Tom showed them and they are first increasing recurring free cash flow per share at a robust rate while continuing to expand our return on invested capital.
We also believe that we will continue to demonstrate ongoing improvement in both recurring free cash flow and return on invested capital due to the strength of the tower business model in combination with consumers' increasing appetite for mobile broadband data and entertainment services in both the U.S.
and around the world.
It's also our strongly held view that the physics and the engineering fundamentals of radio frequency base communications will require additional transmission equipment within a more dense network of locations over time.
Therefore we view the increase in penetration of smartphones tablets and similar broadband devices and the monthly volume of bandwidth drawn by each device as the two most important indicators of future further demand for tower space in any given market.
As Tom's chart on tower demand drivers showed we expect smartphone penetration to more than double in the U.S.
to nearly 200 million by 2013.
In the meantime we also expect tablet and other connected device penetration to nearly double in the U.S.
every year from now until 2013.
Moreover monthly data usage per device continues to expand with capacity-hungry mobile video as the leading contributor.
The multiplier effect of increasing penetration and increasing usage will create tremendous requirements for wireless network capacity over many years.
Improved technology and additional spectrum will absorb some of these capacity increases.
But as Tom said also additional transmission equipment and more dense arrays of cell sites will also play a major role.
To address the opportunities presented by consumers' desire for wireless data and entertainment as well as the challenges our wireless carrier customers are taking necessary and prudent actions.
I'll focus most of the rest of my prepared remarks addressing head-on the major industry developments going on in the U.S.
that are on everyone's mind today and describe how we believe they will effectively American Tower's future prospects.
These industry developments includes Sprint Nextel's Network Vision initiative the efforts of Clearwire and LightSquared to provide 4G network coverage and the proposed acquisition of T-Mobile USA by AT&amp;T.
I'll address each of these in the context of three essential factors for the deployment of a viable 4G network: first spectrum; second funding; and third the OEM-enhanced set supplier base.
And finally for each case I'll summarize the anticipated implications for our company regarding each of the three major industry developments.
Overall American Tower's position is that if an industry development is likely to increase the penetration of high-bandwidth devices at a faster rate to consumers then that development will benefit American Tower over time and therefore our company's goal is to be supportive of those efforts.
So let's first then consider Sprint's Network Vision program in light of the three essential success factors of a 4G deployment.
The program as we understand it will enable more effective use of Sprint's spectrum specifically in the 800 megahertz band.
They did use it then for high-speed 3G and potentially 4G services.
From a funding perspective the program is designed to add Ethernet and fiber backhaul capabilities to Sprint's core network which will then reduce the cost of providing true broadband service.
The project would bring in more advanced OEM base station equipment and enable more broadband handsets and tablets to be supported.
As to implications for the Tower business we anticipate in the early years of this project that amendment revenue from Sprint would increase due to additional antennas lines and frequencies needed for the transition.
We would then conversely and as Tom pointed out likely experience some churn from legacy iDEN overlap sites.
This might begin in the 2015 time frame and take a number of years to be completed.
In the meantime we'd also expect that since by then Sprint Nextel should have many more smartphone and tablet subscribers that they'd also need to be increasing cell site density and equipment installation broadly across its footprint.
We'd also expect that Sprint would monitor iDEN subscriber churn as Network Vision is being implemented and to modify the pacing if needed.
As to Clearwire and LightSquared both hold extremely valuable resources in the form of their spectrum.
We fully expect that this spectrum will be put to work in some manner over the next few years.
Both companies are seeking to enhance their position regarding the three essential factors for 4G.
Of course they have both already had the spectrum but both need reliable sources of medium to long-term funding.
They're both also continuing to seek suppliers that will provide the kinds of efficiently priced base station equipment and those iconic type devices to run on their respective technologies and frequency bands.
In the end we fully expect that both Clearwire and LightSquared will find a way to bring their valuable spectrum to bear on a national basis either through independent network deployments or in some sort of collaboration with an existing carrier.
While a well-funded national network deployment by both Clearwire and LightSquared would be the optimal outcome for the Tower industry we also view any arrangement that accelerates either or both of these companies launching 4G service and thereby accelerating rate of penetration of 4G devices in the U.S.
as very positive.
The most recent major new development in the U.S.
wireless industry was AT&amp;T's announcement of its proposed acquisition of T-Mobile USA.
In view of the three essential elements for 4G this combination would bring some major benefits.
Our internal analysis suggests that the spectrum position of T-Mobile would enhance AT&amp;T's current position by approximately 60% on a weighted average basis.
Regarding funding and OEM and handset supply base AT&amp;T would bring a substantial financial resources and its robust supplier base including Apple iPhones and iPads to T-Mobile’s 30 million-plus subscribers.
Consequently we expect that the combined company would increase the adoption rate of next-generation broadband mobile devices more rapidly to a larger number of people.
In our experience as a major wireless network infrastructure provider we've seen three previous examples of wireless carrier mergers that were immediately followed by strategic initiatives by those newly combined carriers to launch or accelerate next generation technology deployments.
The first of these examples and the closest precedent to the proposed AT&amp;T/T-Mobile transaction was the 2004 combination of Cingular and AT&amp;T Wireless.
Post merger the larger and financially stronger company deployed 3G then at a faster pace than we believe Cingular and AT&amp;T Wireless would have done independently.
In addition the combined company launched the iPhone ushering in a new chapter in the sophistication and attractiveness of wireless handsets to consumers.
The second example was the merger of Sprint and Nextel in 2005.
After that transaction the combined company initiated the first national carrier 4G launch in the U.S.
And then forming an alliance with and providing funding for Clearwire.
The third precedent was the acquisition of Alltell by Verizon in 2009.
Following which the larger business then began an aggressive nationwide 4G rollout.
We've also reviewed our revenue trend data with respect to these three previous national wireless carrier mergers.
Our assessment of the data supports our conclusion that the combined companies grew their network investments and consequently their leasing of tower space.
In each case we compared our revenue from the combined carrier two years after the mergers closed versus the total revenue from the original independent carriers the year prior to the closing.
In the case of both the Cingular AT&amp;T Wireless and Verizon AllTell our post-merger Tower revenue two years later was approximately 30% higher than pre-merger levels.
In the case of Sprint Nextel revenue was approximately 40% higher.
In other words accelerated technology deployments and other network improvements were in excess of any short-term churn.
So in keeping with our prior experience and analysis as outlined above we have been historically and are currently supportive of our customers' strategic initiatives that are designed to improve their network performance and accelerate the deployment of advanced technologies.
This position also applies to the pending acquisition of T-Mobile USA by AT&amp;T as we found similar combinations beneficial to the subscriber base through faster technology rollouts and thereby to our business as well.
Now you may have seen a few weeks ago in the press a contrary view attributed to our company.
This report misrepresented the position of American Tower and relevant facts were taken out of context.
We've requested a correction be made but we just wanted to take this opportunity to set the record straight for our investors.
In summary we believe that demand for tower space in the U.S.
will support continued strong growth.
Moreover we are highly confident that similar dynamics around wireless data and entertainment adoption will occur in our international markets.
We feel that American Tower has a unique combination of experience and intellectual property that our people have developed over our many years of operation in both the U.S.
and in Mexico and Brazil that can be directly applied to build further value for our shareholders globally.
We have bolstered both our Senior Executive and our Regional Management teams with the talent needed to expand our business to four continents.
We're also partnering with some of the world's leading global telecommunication companies to bring the Tower Leasing business model to new countries.
These include Telefónica in Latin America and MTN in Africa.
Again we are confident that our growing international operations will lengthen and strengthen our company's growth potential.
So we believe that American Tower offers you a unique and compelling investment pieces significant exposure to the mobile data and entertainment phenomenon in the U.S.
and in attractive international markets as we also attract towards a potential REIT conversion which is targeted for January 1 2012.
Finally we're also pleased here in Boston to see that the Red Sox's new "lull them to sleep early" strategy seems to be working.
By losing the first six games in a row and quietly hiding out in last place in the AL East the Sox are perfectly positioned for their shock-and-awe assault to the playoffs.
Thanks everyone and operator we can now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from  Rick Prentiss from Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions for you if I could.
First appreciate very much that head-on addressing of the key industry items that was great.
A couple of follow-ons with that.
In your guidance right now what are your thoughts as far as the 3 to 4 nationwide networks in the U.S.? How are those reflected in your 2011 guidance? And then as you think forward to 2012 how does the growth in '11 versus '10 look versus what might be the growth in '12 versus '11? Rick it's Jim.
Our guidance applies as you know only to 2011 and within that time period which there's only seven months left in the year 7.5 months it's a big shift to turn for the carriers.
I mean they're going to stay on the tracks that they're on today.
T-Mobile still doing some work on its network even though it's in a merger discussion less than I would have hoped at this point but they're still going to continue to press on.
They've got an approval process that it'll be a year to a year and a half so they're going have to keep the network up and running.
So probably not a lot of major changes to any of the networks this year versus current course of speed.
In 2012 we're going to -- towards the end of the year do our bottoms-up review as we always do with our management team.
We'll talk to our customers then they'll probably have some budgets lined out but it's too early to tell how this will all affect 2012 Rick.
Inc.</strong> Is it safe to say that you've not seen a lot of Clearwire or LightSquared in the 2011 progress so far and that if they were to solve that funding item you talked about that that will lead to probably a better '12? That's absolutely right.
I mean we had zero tower leasing revenue in our plan for LightSquared modest amount for Clearwire versus prior year assuming again no new markets for them.
So positive developments there would be additional opportunity for us.
But now let me just caveat that for a second.
Again there's only six months left 6 to 7 months effectively left in the year now.
Any announcements would probably end up in leases and probably the fourth quarter of the year and then lead into 2012.
Inc.</strong> Makes sense.
And then one for Tom maybe on the international side.
I think I understood you to say that you're going to manage the MTN Ghana assets and that's probably why we see a higher revenue in the guidance than EBITDA in the guidance.
And could you just kind of quantify if that is correct how much of that increase was from the Ghana side? That's exactly right Rick.
Part of the arrangement that we have with MTN while we're going to be closing on an initial 400 sites and then picking up 500 probably in the third quarter we've agreed to manage the entire portfolio.
So that there is approximately $47 million of total pass-through that is included in the guidance and probably 2/3 of that is related to the transaction with MTN.
Great.
That helps.
Your next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Going back to the helpful discussion on the impact of Network Vision vs.
the iDEN shut down and the timing there are you expecting -- I think Sprint had talked about eight markets being turned on this year perhaps you can just talk about any contribution from some of those extra facilities and where you are on that contract negotiation or amendment activity.
And then on the REIT conversion on the dividends side perhaps you can talk about timing of the purging dividend and any current thoughts on payouts given some of the work you've done so far.
Simon it's Jim.
I'll take the first question and Tom will address the REIT question.
To our understanding Sprint Nextel is in the planning stages as you indicated of initiating the Network Vision program.
From our perspective it is the planning stages.
In other words we're not necessarily seeing applications on sites quite yet we're looking forward to that.
But given the early days of the program and I think you understand that we don't put things into our guidance or attempt to quantify them until we get application so it's not included at this moment.
Simon on the REIT question as I outlined our accumulated earnings and profits that we estimated at the end of this year will be up to $200 million.
The actual dividend that might be related to this earnings and profits distribution would be perhaps in the second half of the year it's kind of the timing that we're thinking about but that's really up to the Board of Directors and the actual amount will actually be up to the Board of Directors as well.
Okay.
And what about the overall ongoing dividend once you become a REIT? Yes I mean those kinds of discussions are going on with our Board and that's really for them to determine and it'll be more -- we will be able to talk more about that perhaps later in the year or early next year but the Board is still deliberating through all of the concepts associated with dividend policy.
Simon just generally the intent of the company is very easy to summarize in two words: growth plus yield.
We're going to move into a position over the course of the second half as Tom said into next year where we do provide that additional element of yield at some level in a predictable fashion and a smooth entry to our investors.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
This is Richard Choe for Phil.
Going into the Brazil deal I guess it was upsized a little bit and you said you paid 12x to 13x cash flow.
Was that because the incremental sites were higher or was this kind of looking back and kind of re-upping the price for the sites? And then going forward it seems like Brazil is doing very well and it's an area you want to focus on.
Are there more deals -- should we expect more deals from Brazil the rest of the year? Richard it's Jim Taiclet.
Basically what happened with our Brazil transaction is the purchase prices adjusted for the actual cash flows that were occurring up the towers new and existing in the deal.
But the bulk of it was driven by the new towers that were completed and ready to transfer.
So those both contributed.
Brazil generally is we think a very attractive market.
There was a spectrum option last year that NII  ended up winning a fair amount of spectrum for them to rollout a 3G network.
And we've partnered with them extensively in the past expect to in the future.
So for that and other reasons general to my prior discussion the rollout of data and entertainment in Brazil is going to be exciting in the next few years.
Great.
And then I guess a follow-up on the M&amp;A side.
In terms of U.S.
prices have you seen any changes in the market or are people expecting a reasonable private market prices still? Well our consistent public statement is we don't speak to specific pricing on U.S.
transactions prospectively.
Each of those transactions is unique as was site sharing in Brazil frankly based on the counter parties the tenants the capacity of the sites and a number of other factors.
So it's not a one-size-fits-all multiple and that's how we consistently like to discuss it.
Your next question comes from Jason Armstrong from Goldman Sachs.
Great news on the IRS private letter ruling.
I'm just wondering if you can help us think through international activity from here as it relates to the asset test associated with the REIT structure just what you're sort of theoretical limit on what you can do there.
And then second question we focused a lot of the comments on addressing the deal addressing the Sprint sort of trajectory from here but if you look at where a lot of the incremental momentum has surfaced in the quarter for the carriers it's companies like MetroPCS  this morning producing a record net add result weighted towards smartphones Leap Sprint announced some decent numbers so that seems to be where we're getting a lot of the incremental sort of inflections in the wireless industry.
Why wouldn't these type of companies start to show up more meaningfully on sort of fill-ins on existing city networks especially given their spectrum constraints? I'll take Jason the first question on the asset test.
We don't expect expansion in the U.S.
or international to be impacted by our decision to move to a real estate investment trust.
I mean there are a lot of flexibility within the IRS guidelines in terms of leverage that can be used.
There's also a flexibility in terms of being able to move those assets which would qualify as REITable assets into our QRS.
So we think that we have a lot of flexibility within the guidelines to be able to continue as Jim mentioned before and continue to be a high growth good-yielding real estate investment trust asset.
When you think about leverage it is the concept to raise debt sort of at core to tier end and transition down to international properties or would you start raising more debt sort of in local markets? Jason it's kind of a combination of the two.
I mean we're still very committed to our existing range of leverage.
I'm not talking about on a consolidated basis changing our leverage ratios at all.
But we can and have started to raise debt at local markets for example in South Africa part of the financing for that particular transaction was debt that we raised locally.
And/or we can do it through intercompany loans which was one of the elements of the PLR to make sure that we can do that.
In fact do that would actually assist us in terms of being able to meet the asset tests.
And going back to the regional carriers including Metro and Leap they were in our plan and in our guidance as well in the U.S.
at a fairly modest level as compared to some of the nationals.
We'd expect that that guidance is going to be fulfilled over the course of the year.
We are pleased to hear both companies outperforming because that should help them fund additional network investments if they believe that's in their best interest.
So that's great news for us.
Your next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Maybe just a couple of more detail kind of questions or thoughts on the REIT conversion process Tom.
#1 kind of what is your appetite and what have your conversations been like about potential REIT index inclusion as you think about converting to REIT? Is that important to you and if so how are those conversations going? Also with respect to your S&amp;P 500 inclusion would you guys become a REIT for all intents and purposes or would you stay a telecom company? And then my last one maybe Jim if you could just opine a little bit as we have in the past on kind of where the public safety network fits into your thinking as a potential upside opportunity for presumably next year.
It's in the budget we're coming up on the 10th anniversary of 9/11.
Presumably this was done in order to have something to say as we got towards the end of the year here on public safety and federally funded networks.
If you kind of give us your latest thoughts on that it'd be great.
David it's Tom.
Let me take the comment to REIT questions first.
I mean clearly what has been driving us to contemplate moving to a REIT has been the ability to pass that cash along to shareholders right.
I mean that's the biggest benefit it's really part of our global tax strategy.
Relative to the index in terms of the inclusion we have had discussions with many REITs but it's very difficult to say exactly how they may consider us.
There is some precedents that you can look at that have recently converted from C Corp into a REIT and that might give you some sense at least perhaps how we're thinking of it.
But clearly from an investor perspective and I think it is very important to be included in as many indexes as we possibly can with regards to the S&amp;P we believe at the S&amp;P 500 simply because of the weighting would be the same.
But it's unclear as to the telecom index and whether that would in fact we would move out of telecom index or more into real estate or a REIT-type of index.
So not a lot of Christmas if you will in terms of a lot of the indexes because a lot of that is kind of determined behind closed doors.
So I'm sure we'll have or clarity on that going throughout the next 12 months or so but it is very important to us but that wasn't the principal driver clearly in terms of what we're doing here.
And on the public safety side David that's been a program that our company and me personally have tried to advocate in Washington for.
And it's great to see that it's getting some traction.
But if you go back to the prepared remarks before we see a lease commence the carrier or the customer needs to have three or four things in place: one is spectrum; second is funding; third is a business plan that the owner believes in; and the fourth is OEM equipment and handsets.
And there is starting to be progress on the first two which is great.
The D block spectrum seems to have been at least informally assigned for this purpose.
Secondly the funding has been touched on and quantified.
And thirdly there is some momentum inside the government to proceed with this.
What hasn't been announced is the schedule of deployment and network design vendors which could be large-scale vendors or even down to the suppliers of handsets none of those have been identified or announced yet to our knowledge.
So those things are all going to have to come into play before we see leases.
Now having said that it makes a lot of sense we hope it will happen but there's probably a little bit more of a timeline to it certainly as you suggest beyond the end of 2011 before we see some commenced leases.
All right.
Great.
Your next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi Investment.
Really two.
First is if you look at I think Slide 6 it was which is a great slide it showed the different pieces of where revenue came from and some of the churn.
The churn calculated out to be about 2.7% on last year's base of revenue.
Is that a more normalized rate of churn that we should expect going forward? Or is there room for that to come down further? And then second question I had is if you were just to look at your 2011 guidance and as you're doing all the prep work for the REIT what would be to qualify as a REIT based on your 2011 guidance what would be the minimum amount you have to pay in a dividend basis to retain your qualification? Well let me take the first one Michael.
On the churn the 2.7% the answer is no that's not going to be our run rate.
As a matter fact for 2011 if you take a look at our guidance it's about 2%.
What you actually see happening in the first quarter this year is that -- in the beginning of the second quarter we actually restructured a contract with a large carrier then in Mexico.
And so that artificially overstates if you will what the churn is from a run rate perspective in the first quarter of 2011 for us.
And relative to your second question I mean the easiest way -- I mean 90% of our taxable income needs to be distributed to qualified as a REIT.
I think that was your question.
Yes I mean because we can't see exactly what's taxable at a high level.
Can you give us a sense of maybe what that number would shake out to be? Well if I recall kind of looking think about kind of 2010 if our kind of our  GAAP taxable income was in the 500 general million dollars per range assuming that all of that income was actually generated by the REIT which is not going to be correct? Because part of that income will be generated as part of the taxable REIT subsidiary make up but 90% of that GAAP income would be distributed.
Now keep in mind there's timing differences with regards to taxable depreciation which is generally around -- it has been historically about $100 million.
So if you look at the kind of the GAAP taxable income or pretax income of $500 million and you take $100 million away which is really the timing associated with accelerated depreciation because we depreciate an average of 15 years versus 20 years for book if you're talking about $400 million and 90% of the $400 million would be $360 million.
But again that reflects 100% of all of the income being generated within the business would be considered part of a QRS.
And right now again I'm throwing a lot of numbers out of here and you have to kind of pull them together but right now if you take a look at our international assets I mean they represent 15% to 20% of kind of our total base.
So you can consider that as being that part of the total consolidated business that would be part of the taxable REIT subsidiary make up.
That's helpful and just one other question.
As you're getting ready to do all the prep work on the final steps for the REIT and if you look at your financial leverage ratios you compare it whether it's your tower peers or some of the REITs that you might be compared to in the MO&amp;I sort of sub index of the REIT category your leverage seems to be at the very low end of that sort of spectrum of ranges.
Is there any consideration as you're moving forward to look at whether 3.5x is the right target leverage ratio in the future? Mike it's Jim.
I just want to begin to reply to that question with the two words I talked about earlier growth plus yield.
The growth part of those terms is first on purpose because we intend to maintain our position as a growth company through this whole REIT transition and maintain our strategic direction.
Therefore that's the main issue when it comes to our leverage.
We want to be able to keep growing.
In fact I would argue that our ability to add 10 000 or so towers in the last year or so is directly a function of our capital structure through the financial crisis down turn cycle.
We were able to keep investing in our business when others could not and we are able to get transactions done at prices that weren't available to us before and may not be available to anyone after.
So we're going to keep our financial policy around leverage similar.
It may be at the low end of certain ranges but we're maintaining our growth strategy both domestically and internationally and you can expect us to continue to do so.
Your final question comes from James Ratcliffe Barclays Capital.
Just one quick one if I could.
Regarding international just going forward do you see any future JV structures and beyond simply the benefits of having you manage the towers? How do you think about JVs in terms of usage of equity capital? James it's Jim.
Our preference in most markets is to own 100% of the asset and manage it in a way unilaterally.
However when the situation of either the customer and often the counter party to a deal has an interest in staying involved we're certainly going to entertain that and also the further afield from our traditional markets we may go there's a risk management aspect to sometimes having a local partner that's beneficial.
Those will be the two factors that would be on the consideration in the future.
We don't have any other specific joint ventures to talk to you about today.
And I think our use of equity capital would be the same whether it's a joint venture or not.
We would look to continue to leverage up some of those local assets to better way to mitigate some cash to access out in those particular markets and hedge cash flows and to the extent that the market is open for us to be able to borrow in at attractive rates that works well for us in a number of different fronts.
And just would it be safe to assume that certainly the strong preference in JV would be for one-way of a majority stake? Absolutely.
Great.
Well thank you very much for calling in this morning.
Operator you can close the call.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brooke and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Leah Stearns Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Stearns you may begin your conference.
Thank you Brooke and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining American Tower's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investors tab on our website www.americantower.com.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our second quarter results.
Then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter.
And finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2011 outlook our pending acquisitions our consideration to elect real estate investment trust status our stock repurchase program and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2011 our Amendment #1 to our form S-4 filed on July 18 2011 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our second quarter 2011 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for over 97% of total revenues which are generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 28% to nearly $584 million from the second quarter of 2010.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 21% to $389 million operating income increased 20% to $226 million and finally income from continuing operations increased to $113 million or $0.29 per basic and diluted common share.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that our business produced solid results during the second quarter with our recent acquisitions in Latin America and EMEA further diversifying our overall revenue stream.
As a result of our year-to-date performance and further certainty as to the timing of some specific international acquisition closings we have raised our revenue and adjusted EBITDA outlook for the year.
If you please turn to Slide 5 you will see that for the second quarter our total rental and management revenue increased by approximately 28% to $584 million.
And for the quarter our core growth increased 24.4% and was generated by core same tower revenue growth which is comprised of escalators new lease up and amendment activity less than churn of 8% and core growth from the construction and acquisition of new towers of 16.4%.
The key drivers of our core same tower growth during the second quarter include new business commitments in the U.S.
which have been trending at comparable levels to 2010 with AT&amp;T and Verizon's LTE network investments driving the majority of our U.S.
leasing volume.
And in Latin America we've seen recent 3G spectrum auctions increase demand for our legacy sites as our customers plan their next generation network deployments driving an expected improvement in consolidated leasing volumes for the first half of the year versus the same period last year.
Our growth from new sites reflects the impact of our acquisition our construction of over 10 000 sites since the beginning of the second quarter of 2010.
Over 90% of these new sites are located in our international markets where we have found -- where we have focused on diversifying our portfolio across 3 key regions: Latin America Asia and EMEA.
And our growth from new sites also reflects the increase in our international pass-through revenues which has doubled from the year ago period to $40 million.
Turning to Slide 6.
During the second quarter our domestic rental and management segment was right on plan with revenue growth driven primarily by new cash leasing revenue from our legacy towers.
For the quarter our domestic rental and management segment revenue grew 13.4% to nearly $425 million with core growth of 11%.
Year-to-date and as expected both our signed and commenced new leasing activity in the U.S.
has been comparable with 2010 levels and has been primarily generated by 2 of our largest customers as they focus on deploying their 4G LTE networks nationwide.
For the second quarter our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased $43.3 million or approximately 14.7% which reflects a year-over-year conversion rate of about 86%.
And further as we've previously highlighted during 2011 we continue to make selective investments in systems and people throughout the organization.
As a result our domestic rental and management segment SG&amp;A costs have increased about $4.5 million from the year ago period.
We expect these incremental investments in SG&amp;A to be largely isolated to 2011 as we scale our operations to support our future growth initiatives.
And finally as a result of our growth in gross margin we grew operating profit 13.8% to just under $320 million maintaining our operating profit margin at 75%.
Turning to Slide 7.
Over the past 12 months we have made significant investments in our International Rental and Management segment adding over 9 000 tower sites to our portfolio.
And as a result our International Rental and Management segment revenue has nearly doubled to approximately $159 million.
Year-to-date our legacy markets within our international segment have experienced strong levels of signed new leases and amendments.
During 2010 we saw a pause in many of our international markets as carriers awaited either spectrum or available equipment to enable their network deployments.
As customers in our legacy Latin American markets have now been awarded spectrum and equipment is more readily available for carriers to deploy in India we are expecting demand levels to strengthen.
From a gross margin perspective our International Rental and Management segment increased 75% year-over-year to approximately $106 million which when you exclude the impact of pass-through revenue results in a gross margin of almost 89% and a gross margin conversion rate of about 77%.
Further our International Rental and Management SG&amp;A expense increased $11.5 million from the second quarter of 2010.
The primary driver of this increase has been the costs associated with establishing our local teams in our new markets as well as investing in scaling our legacy operations to support our ongoing growth.
As a result of our International Rental and Management segment gross margin growth our international segment operating profit increased 68% to $84.3 million.
And finally I'd like to highlight that as of the second quarter our international segment represented approximately 27% of our total rental and management revenues or 22% of our rental and management revenues when you exclude pass-through revenue.
We believe that our current international operations offer our investors the benefits of portfolio diversification and exposure to higher growth markets.
It's currently estimated that the vast majority of wireless net adds in the world will be generated over the next 5 years in emerging markets which we believe will drive significant demand for new co-locations on our towers.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the second quarter of 2010 was over 21% with our core growth for the quarter at 17.2% on a currency neutral basis and excluding the net impact of straight-line lease accounting.
During the second quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin excluding the impact of pass-through was approximately 70% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was about 63%.
I'd like to provide some additional color behind the key drivers of our $20 million year-over-year increase in SG&amp;A expense.
As I mentioned we believe these investments will position our teams to drive solid future growth and better support our rapidly growing global business.
First as Jim highlighted for you earlier this year we are staffing up key roles throughout the organization to better support our current regional operations and enable future growth.
Approximately 1/3 of our increase in SG&amp;A for the quarter was attributable to this initiative.
Further approximately 45% of the increase is due to the impact of our acquisition in India and staffing our new markets in Latin America and EMEA.
We would expect once our new markets and regional teams are fully staffed and our new systems are in place our incremental SG&amp;A spending will ease.
As outlined in Slide 9 during 2011 we have continued our disciplined approach to capital allocation and have as a result invested about $1.4 billion in capital expenditures acquisitions and share repurchases.
During the second quarter we invested about $139 million in total capital expenditures.
Our growth capital expenditures included $75 million of spending primarily related to the construction of approximately 230 new sites $28 million paid to acquire some land under our towers and $15 million to upgrade towers to accommodate new tenants.
In addition pursuant to our stock repurchase programs during the second quarter we've repurchased about 2 million shares of our common stock for $102 million.
Year-to-date as of July 22 we have acquired 4.7 million shares for over $240 million.
During the second quarter we spent $275 million on acquisitions primarily in our international markets.
Our acquisitions included 170 sites in Chile 15 sites in Colombia 23 sites in Brazil 400 sites in Ghana and 37 sites in the United States.
And finally we recently announced the signing of definitive agreements to purchase up to 2 126 towers from Colombia Movil or Tigo a subsidiary of Millicom for up to $182 million.
As noted in our announcement of this transaction Millicom and the other shareholders of Tigo have the right to retain a minority interest in these assets and we expect to fund our share of the purchase price with cash on hand.
The initial tranche of towers is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2011 with the remaining towers expected to close over the course of 2012.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our investment strategy in capital allocation process continues to drive growth in cash flow and return on invested capital.
We have delivered compounded annual growth in recurring free cash flow and recurring free cash flow per share of 15% and 17% respectively over the past several years.
For the quarter our recurring free cash flow was $244.7 million and our recurring free cash flow per share was $0.61.
For those refocused investors we believe that our recurring free cash flow metric is a good proxy for adjusted funds from operations or AFFO and believe to arrive at an appropriate AFFO for American Tower you would need to make 2 minor adjustments.
First add back our redevelopment CapEx which represents amounts we invest to generate new revenues from incremental tenants and which by the way is often reimbursed by the tenant.
And second add back noncash interest expense or our deferred financing charges and historically this runs approximately $3 million per quarter.
As expected our recurring free cash flow growth in 2011 is projected to be below our long-term goal of mid-teens compounded annual growth due to a couple of specific reasons.
First in 2010 we received a tax refund which we will not benefit from again in 2011.
Second we have a capital improvement project related to our guide towers in the U.S.
which will require us to spend a total of approximately $10 million of maintenance CapEx during the year.
Third we will have higher than normal redevelopment CapEx of which we've spent about $8 million year-to-date which is attributable to our Indoor DAS system 4G upgrades.
We expect to be fully reimbursed for these costs by our tenants.
And finally incremental interest expense associated with opportunistic debt offerings which we pursued to fund our acquisition pipeline.
Excluding the impact of these nonrecurring items our recurring free cash flow would be in line with our target of mid-teen annual growth.
Separately we've increased our return on invested capital by approximately 160 basis points over the same historical period.
Our fundamental strategy continues to be to drive growth in these 2 key metrics with annual recurring free cash flow growth in the mid-teens while concurrently increasing our consolidated return on invested capital.
Now on Slide 11 we've updated our outlook for the year.
We are raising our target revenue by $30 million to $2.35 billion at the midpoint which is primarily attributable to our acquisition of an additional 320 sites -- 329 sites in South Africa which was completed subsequent to the end of the second quarter and an increase of about 300 sites over what we previously expected to acquire on in Ghana which is expected to close over the next week.
In addition year-to-date international currencies have been stronger than our initial forecast and this has resulted in incremental revenues primarily from our operations in Brazil.
So as a result for 2011 we now expect total rental and management revenue to increase nearly $414 million generating annual core growth of over 20% at the midpoint.
In addition we are now forecasting that our adjusted EBITDA will be $20 million higher with the midpoint of the new range at $1.57 billion for 2011.
The increase in adjusted EBITDA is attributable to the corresponding impact of our third quarter acquisitions and the average FX rates we now expect for the full year.
So as the result for 2011 we now anticipate adjusted EBITDA to increase over $220 million generating annual core growth of 15% at the midpoint.
Finally we are increasing our outlook for cash provided by operating activities by $30 million which reflects the cash impact of our increases in adjusted EBITDA and lower than previously forecasted cash interest expense.
As a result we now anticipate cash provided by operating activities to increase by $95 million or 9% at the midpoint.
On Slide 12 we have provided an overview of our tower count which as of the end of the second quarter stood at approximately 38 000 sites with 56% of our sites in the U.S.
and 44% in our international markets.
Our outlook currently reflects the following activity during the second half of 2011.
Our acquisition of 329 sites in South Africa which we completed in July; acquiring approximately 800 sites in Ghana which we expect to complete later this week; and the construction of an additional 880 sites globally based on the midpoint of our outlook.
In addition and not yet included in our outlook we have signed agreements to secure up to an additional 700 sites in Ghana 1 880 sites in South Africa and 2 100 sites in Colombia which we expect to acquire in tranches during the fourth quarter of 2011 and the full year 2012.
Turning to Slide 13 I'd like to spend a moment on our progress with respect to our REIT conversion.
First our internal work streams remain on track as our legal entity reorganization and operational readiness initiatives continue to make solid progress.
These operational initiatives include key system modifications to enable our ability to track and manage REIT testing requirements.
We are currently working on the Second Amendment to our Form S-4 which we intend to file with the SEC in the coming weeks and will include our second quarter financial information.
In addition as we near the end of 2011 our final work surrounding our earnings and profits distribution is wrapping up.
We continue to expect that our distribution will not exceed $200 million and that it will be paid using cash on hand.
And further we recently received initial feedback from both Fitch and Moody's that our investment grade credit ratings should not be impacted as a result of our REIT conversion.
And finally we are continuing our outreach to index providers to ensure they have the necessary information to make an informed decision about our treatment within their indexes.
And please note there's no guarantee that we'll ultimately elect REIT status any election is subject to Board approval and finally any determination to elect REIT status will not be made until in the second half of 2011.
Turning to Slide 14 and in conclusion we've had a very successful second quarter and believe we have built a strong foundation for the rest of the year.
We had solid growth in revenue and adjusted EBITDA and we continue to close on acquisitions that we believe are accretive to our investors.
Year-to-date we've invested nearly $1.4 billion in acquisitions CapEx and stock buybacks.
And with respect to our balance sheet our net leverage remains at the low end of our target range to 3.4x net debt to second quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA.
We have tremendous liquidity of approximately $2.3 billion.
And we expect that we'll continue to opportunistically seek access to the capital markets to further ladder and extend our maturities.
Finally we continue to believe that we are on track to be in a position to elect REIT status as of January 1 2012.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Tom.
Our compelling second quarter results highlight the critical role that the tower sector plays in the expansion of wireless service and American Tower's unique ability to capitalize on this phenomenon on a global basis.
Our vertical real estate is the essential link between the supply and the demand sides of the wireless economy.
On the demand side is the ever-growing consumer appetite for mobile services that transcend traditional voice and SMS and take the user experience to a whole new level.
Today at full Internet connectivity transactional and business productivity tools social networking and entertainment at steadily increasing speed and quality is what the user is demanding.
On the supply side our more and more capable smart phones laptop computers and tablets plus the software spectrum switching equipment and IP networks that result in the availability of greater mobile bandwidth.
What connects the supply of mobile bandwidth to the demand of the consumer is the vertical real estate of the tower.
As the nexus between the wireless industry and its end customer our tower's base is highly valuable.
Everyone in our company is dedicated to securing expanding and retaining maximum value from our vertical real estate and this is what drives the results that Tom so thoroughly described.
The towers pivotal position in the delivery of wireless services secure based on the physics of radio frequency transmission.
For the vast proportion of any given mobile coverage area macro sites are the best solution.
In addition for any given geographic area with its own specific spectrum topology and population density when bandwidth delivery increases the capacity and quality of the radio signal must also increase.
As a result as the mobile industry delivers more broadband capacity to an equal or greater number of users existing networks will need additional transmission equipment and a more dense and numerous set of cell sites.
In a recent study published by JPMorgan an increase from 3 to 10 megabits per month of usage by wireless subscribers in Singapore resulted in a reduction of cell site radius of 50% and a 3x increase in cell site density.
While these specific results were specific to densely populated nation of Singapore to us they indicate the expected direction of the trend across all types of geographies.
The challenge for the wireless industry is to meet burgeoning consumer demand for wireless data and entertainment while achieving a reasonable return on investment over time.
Consequently industry suppliers that enhance the overall efficiency of the delivery of mobile bandwidth will thrive.
Over the past decade the U.S.
tower industry proved the value of the commercial co-location model for vertical real estate.
In other words leasing readily available multi-tenant towers from professional companies has proved to be much more efficient than carriers owning and operating single-use towers.
Our recent growth in our U.S.
business demonstrates that co-location continues to be the preferred method for network deployment.
Since we firmly believe that the co-location model of network deployment should make sense in any country with a competitive wireless industry one of the core missions at American Tower is to seek additional countries where we can introduce the efficiency of our business model and secure the appropriate value for doing so.
Consequently American Tower is today positioned as the only major independent provider of vertical real estate to the telecom industry on a global basis.
We've been able to secure this position in large part due to the size and performance of our U.S.
business.
Our U.S.
operations which still provide nearly 3 quarters of the company's leasing revenue has the highest operating margins in the domestic tower industry and generates substantial cash flow.
This cash coupled with the company's traditionally strong balance sheet has provided the financial wherewithal to invest in new assets throughout the business cycle.
Moreover our early forays into Mexico and Brazil 10 years ago provided the experience and management talent for operating in emerging markets.
And in recent years we've augmented our executive management team with significant international experience from Asia Europe and Africa.
As a result American Tower's developed and continues to pursue a much broader set of investment opportunities.
By having access to acquisition candidates both in the U.S.
and abroad we've been able to achieve robust multi-year expansion in revenue EBITDA and recurring free cash flow per share as you saw while also increasing our return on invested capital simultaneously.
This quarter's 28% tower revenue growth and 21% adjusted EBITDA growth are the latest examples.
Given the rapid expansion of the wireless industry around the world we expect to continue to deliver strong growth in our financial metrics while also expanding returns along the way.
Now let's spend some time on a few of our current focus areas for driving maximum value from our business.
In the U.S.
our highest operational priority is meeting the deployment needs and exceeding the delivery expectations of AT&amp;T and Verizon as they aggressively enhance their existing networks and install next-generation LTE technology.
We are also closely monitoring the evolving relationships among Sprint Clearwire and LightSquared which we fully believe will bring together a combination of spectrum financing technology hardware and business relationships among them to deliver to U.S.
consumers a fully viable and competitive 4G product.
This will inevitably require significant infrastructure enhancements for Sprint which we believe will be incorporated into their network vision program as well as necessitate modification to our current master lease terms.
Many of you know that our past practice is not to discuss the counterparty identity pricing volume commitments or other details of specific customer agreements except with the impact of a long-term arrangement with the customer on our overall financial results especially with result to -- as respect to noncash straight-line revenue it's material.
You can expect this to continue to adhere to this policy as we work with Sprint.
Turning to international our current focus areas are to consolidate our recent gains and add depth to our presence in key countries.
For example in Latin America we have in 2011 added over 600 high-quality towers in Brazil via acquisition and we've recently announced our agreement with Millicom in Colombia which will add over 2 000 towers to the more than 1 000 we had previously acquired from Telefónica there.
In India we are accelerating our construction program in the second half of the year to meet increasing demand from the major carriers there.
And in sub-Saharan Africa after 4 years of disciplined targeted business development in the region we are fully operational now in both South Africa and Ghana.
We expect to have approximately 3 000 towers in operation in that region by year-end.
As Tom mentioned we are also steadily pursuing our initiative to maximize cash available to investors introduce a return in dividend and expand our investor base via conversion to a real estate investment trust corporate structure.
Pending board approval we plan to implement the conversion January 1 2012 and we see no impediments at this time regulatory or otherwise to achieving that date.
To summarize a few key points before we take your questions first tower companies like us are in a unique position between the supply side of the wireless industry and the exploding demand from consumers.
And American Tower is the only credible player on a global basis.
Second our global presence and strong balance sheet with over $2 billion of liquidity enables us to seek out the best opportunities for asset growth anywhere.
And third we maintain the highest growth rates highest operating margins and highest credit quality among our publicly-traded peer group.
Finally while some of you may have been skeptical of the Red Sox early-season lull-them-to-sleep by losing all our games strategy you can now see that it's worked brilliantly with the Sox firmly in first place and the best record in the American League.
Operator now you can open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Tom you talked about as part the REIT process the preparing the index inclusion discussion.
Could you just update us a little bit on what your understanding NAREIT and others require for index inclusion the main index and where you stand on meeting those requirements.
And then if you could just update us on the status of the SEC subpoena that would be great.
Yes with respect to the indexing we continue to believe that the majority of our revenue 98% of our income is generated from income producing real estate and largely our customers are all investment grade.
So when you line up our business versus the indexes is we think that we fall squarely within all of the indexes including the majority of the NAREIT indexes the RNC as well as all the indexes.
So we've had a lot of ongoing discussions with them.
We continue to update the investors relative to our business and ensuring that they understand the complexity of our business and the makeup of our business and how it lines up we think with the indexes.
And so we think we're in a good position and we think we are again squarely in the middle of all of the index requirements.
Having said that as you well know the advisory groups supporting the indexes it's difficult to predict.
And so what we can do is to educate them and make sure that they understand our business and we'll see what kind of shakes out over the next 3 or 4 months.
We expected it again that once we make the determination to be a REIT and pay the dividend the required dividend that we should be in those indexes early in 2012.
And Simon this is Jim.
From a logical perspective what we've taken is the requirements for say the NAREIT equity REIT index as an example we've lined up the requirements lined up our business right beside it.
We feel it's right down the middle but we do have to wait for the process to play out and let us know where it falls.
Understood.
On the subpoena? Sure.
It's Jim Simon.
We've responded to the SEC's request for documentation and we're continuing to cooperate with them on their review.
We provided them with a large set of documents related to our tax accounting and reporting.
We believe the SEC investigation in part relates to one former employee's complaints that we received in the past that the company as to which we investigated thoroughly and found no material issues all the way up to and including our audit committee and board.
So this time we can't predict the scope or the outcome of the SEC's investigation.
But on that particular item we've reviewed it thoroughly and we feel that the company is in good shape.
And just to be clear it has nothing -- it has no impact on the REIT conversion process? Well we believe that the comments to the S-4 that we've gotten from the SEC which I think comes from actually a different department are ordinary course in nature separate from the tax accounting and reporting matters involved in this other inquiry and we frankly haven't received any indication that the request for documents that centered around those GAAPs tax accounting questions will impact the timing of our REIT conversion.
Your next question comes from Jason Armstrong with Goldman Sachs.
I guess one of your peers Comcast specifically talked about domestically seeing expectations up 15% to 20% in the back half of the year really sort of an inflection.
You're not making that change that I can see in your guidance.
It's more sort of FX related.
Do you see the potential for the same uptick I guess is the first question.
And then second question you for a longtime have had sort of this target of 30% of the business being international.
We're obviously sort of approaching that.
We haven't heard that for a while.
I'm just wondering the time for a reset and the target percentage and what do you think that will ultimately be? Sure Jason it's Jim again.
On the U.S.
demand side our expectation and what we included in outlook is tracking very closely to reality this year.
You might remember that and this is my recollection of Crown's public statements I believe they said that they had decremented 2010 to 2011 about 15% in their original guidance and they brought it back up I think about the same number.
We've not decremented.
We went from 2010 to 2011 we thought at or slightly above in the U.S.
as far as the tracking performance.
That's what we're seeing.
It sounds like that's what CCI may also be seeing and I think it's in complete synchronization with our original outlook.
And James I just would add -- I might just add to that on a consolidated basis performance has been just as Jim said right where we expected it to be.
The first half's commence activity is well ahead of 2010 with the U.S.
tracking slightly ahead in our international markets well ahead of 2010 leasing level.
And with regards to guidance we are increasing revenue by $30 million $25 million of that is actually due to the acquisition activity that we have going on.
So it's a relatively small piece is actually related to FX.
Yes.
And on the international target ratio 4 or 5 years ago I put out the 25% to 30% international target alongside that growing U.S.
business and our team has actually been able to accomplish.
We're going to probably see that by the end of the year so we'll be around 30% run rate year end 2011.
So having established that original goal is having international a major part of this company and an ability Simon and Al execute transactions really anywhere in the world on a major basis.
We're going to continue to seek to make investments that meet our return criteria and we're going to apply that approach to the U.S.
as we've always done and abroad.
And so rather than picking another number and tacking it on the wall we're just going to continue to run our process choose the very best opportunities as we move along here.
Now just based on reality the U.S.
is still the vast majority of our revenue probably will be for a long time but I think we've hit that original target and we'd build a capability to just pick the best spots as we move forward inside or outside the U.S.
Great.
And Jim just as it relates to where the potential international penetration could move to I'm wondering is there any limitation as it relates to REIT status is there income and asset tests that you'll be subject to? Obviously you've got some balance sheet flexibility in terms of where you put leverage but any sort of limitation you would see as it relates to REIT? We actually don't see any limitation.
I'll let Tom give you some more details but we've looked at this from every direction.
All the REIT tests can be satisfied.
There are other REITs with large international operations as well historically.
There are a lot of tools to stay within the REIT test and Tom can give you a little bit more there.
Yes.
Jason as we've said and as you all know converting to a REIT is a tax strategy for us designed to reduce the company's tax burden and provide a meaningful distribution to our investors.
We don't expect that it will impact our core business strategy or growth plans.
Our international operations as I laid out in some of my slides will be held within the taxable REIT subsidiary structure the TRS structure really to allow us to retain the cash flow generated by our international operations and fund the future international growth.
The net asset value cannot exceed 25% of our consolidated gross assets but as Jim said there are a lot of different ways for us to be able to ensure that we meet that IRS requirement with the addition of leverage external as well as intercompany or even moving the international assets into our qualified REIT structures as may REITs do.
So we think we have a lot of vehicles available to us to allow us to continue with that ongoing and continued growth.
Your next question comes from Batya Levi with UBS.
Some of your peers has adjusted increased opportunity for tariff deals in the U.S.
Can you talk about how you think about increasing your domestic portfolio? And the regulators have recently suggested that they're going to look at the AT&amp;T T-Mo's 17 000 company-owned towers to see if there any divestitures to see if there are any divestitures that should be required.
Do you think there could be an opportunity there and are there any limitations as it relates to the REIT status? Batya it's Jim.
On the U.S.
deal side we've been U.S.
deals for as long as I've been here.
We did the first major tower consolidation.
We've done 4 or 5 midsized transactions over the last 18 months in the U.S.
even during the financial crisis we're able to finance and accomplish those.
So we're in the market all the time and we used our 10-year DCF model on large and small U.S.
acquisitions when we see one we like we go ahead and do it.
So we don't have a large number of tower acquisitions to report year-to-date.
I think it was sub 130s as far as our tower count.
That doesn't mean we're not looking at many things.
But we're very disciplined here and we're very disciplined in the U.S.
So things really haven't changed for us.
We'll take the opportunities as they come evaluate and we'll do them when it makes sense.
As far as the AT&amp;T and T-Mobile towers that's a regulatory issue that we'll let the government look at and we'll stand aside from it.
If there is an outcome where towers are available due to that or any process that goes on in the industry we would certainly take a look at them.
Your next question comes from Ric Prentiss with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> I want to ask a couple if I could.
On the REIT conversion process and the S-4 when do you anticipate the S-4 becoming effective and how does that fit into the timing of a shareholder meeting? And if the S-4 does not become effective are there other options as far as the REIT conversion go? Yes Ric we're actually -- have received one set of comments as Jim remarked and they're now responded and now we've received another one.
So we're actually in the Second Amendment if you will phase of the S-4.
The questions continue to get less which is good and nothing that we didn't expect there at all.
And we really are now planning to have this second amendment include our second quarter results which we would have normally had to do anyway.
So we would expect to file that within the next couple of weeks.
And we would expect over the next 45 60 days if you will to be through this process.
I think we're in a good step in terms of being able to accomplish that which is consistent with our initial planning strategy to then have the -- in the fourth quarter if you will the shareholders meeting and then subsequent to that the distribution.
So we think we're in a good step right now.
We're right where we expected to be and as well as on the operational side we think we'll be fully ready to be REIT ready on January 1.
And Ric just to put a larger framework around it the merger outlined in the S-4 is designed primarily to implement some ownership provisions that will enable our company and really any company that wants to act as a REIT to more effectively comply with the IRS regulations and standards going forward sort of into infinity.
We're not close to any of those ownership standards today we're not close by a mile to any of them.
So while we believe it's prudent to put those ownership restrictions in place then it's a traditional thing that REIT converters do those provisions are not a prerequisite or a requirement for REIT conversion.
Now that's just the framework we intend to go after get it done have it done by the end of the year.
But for any reason that we might get delayed on the merger front that does not necessarily preclude us from conversion.
Inc.</strong> And on the U.S.
side I know you don't want to talk about any specific contracts as you look at master lease agreements and amendments how do you balance the positives and negatives about your needs to show that you're collecting revenue on your towers and your empty space versus carriers needs as they go through plans? Just walk us through how you kind of would negotiate a contract or what are the puts and takes might be.
Ric there are many many puts and takes as you know but I think our fundamental objective is to guarantee to the extent that we can a rise in revenue line with each and every carrier that we've dealt with whether it's inside in the U.S.
or outside.
In exchange for that rising revenue line we've got to offer value to those carriers.
Some would rather pay by the drink in a way site by site amendment by amendment.
Others would like to bundle those and have an easier planning cycle and an easier budgeting cycle for them quicker transactions if you've already got that more complex transaction already standardized.
And so we try to meet the needs of our customer and maintain a rising revenue rate faster than we think we otherwise could and that's the whole basis of our negotiation of an MOA.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> From a real estate perspective can you tell us the percentage of land you currently own under your towers and where do you see that percentage growing to over the coming year or 2? Yes sure Jon.
I mean within the U.S.
about 25% is actually owned or under a capital lease and our statistic in terms are kind of over 90% is greater than 10 years.
We've been fairly aggressive this year I think through the first half of the year we spent about $48 million buying land and I think we've acquired over 300 parcels if you will of land.
Our outlook for this year is $100 million.
And I think we will be there or even exceed the $100 million in terms of land acquisitions.
So probably doubling the kind of the parcel acquisitions that we've done in the first half of the year so maybe over 600 or so.
And we continue to build up the organization to be as aggressive as we can where it makes sense.
We do have the same disciplined approach to buying this land as Jim identified when we're looking at U.S.
deals or any deals outside of the U.S.
So we have very specific IRR requirements in terms of what we want to achieve.
And generally speaking up for renewal if you will within the U.S.
it's 30 or 40 parcels per year that are kind of up for renewal.
And our group who is actually looking to acquire land is actually looking at land that's going to be coming up for renewal 3 to 5 years out.
So we're well ahead of the renewal schedule here if you will.
But we remain very active and we do believe that the land is a very important asset and we'll continue to be very aggressive in the marketplace.
But only where the financials make sense.
LLC</strong> Are there any operational levels you have at your disposal to accelerate that if you so chose to or is it strictly going to be IRR based and you see no need to ramp that up? No I mean it's always IRR based.
Our commitment is to continue to increase recurring free cash flow per share and ROIC.
So it's always going to be IRR based it's always going to be the kind of the foundation of it.
Now having said that there are going to be some parcels of land that are more strategic than others but on balance as I said we're still actively looking at land and ensuring it meets our internal hurdle rates.
LLC</strong> Again on the U.S.
leasing side is there any change in the pace of second-half activity that you're expecting as a result from network vision or other projects? Or is it going to be more or less similar to the first half? No I mean based upon our outlook it's not that different from prior years.
It's 45% really in the first half versus 55% in the second half which really does follow the normal CapEx spending of our customers.
And so that's what's built into our outlook.
LLC</strong> And then finally on a redevelopment CapEx if you exclude the Indoor DAS that you referenced is most of that weighted to the U.S.
or is there a significant portion of that occurring internationally? No actually both.
I mean we do have the DAS investment but we do see a significant amount of activity down in Latin America for example.
And so as a result we're making sure that we're able to be positioned to be able to support the growth coming from the likes of Nextel International and Tim and America Movil and Telefónica all of those that have actually secured spectrum over the last 12 months.
So there's a good piece of the increase in redev coming in that particular market as well.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Let's focus on the cost for a minute.
Can you talk first about the U.S.
SG&amp;A? You talked about an isolated increase in 2011.
Does that mean it's sort of stable from here going forward or should we look for it to sort of come back in in 2012 and beyond? No I think overall I mean if you take a look at our -- kind of our $20 million increase in SG&amp;A half of that is actually coming from new markets so things that we've actually acquired if you will over the last 12 months.
And an additional $4 million or $5 million is actually coming from regionalization.
Just I think a smarter way if you will to be able to be closer and closer to the market place.
Overall being incurred to be able to support and scale our businesses going forward.
So I would expect the SG&amp;A that we are incurring to be isolated if you will to 2011 such that I would expect it to come back to more historical levels and this isn't guidance if you will but what I would see if you will over in the next couple of years they would come back to more historical levels relative to say a couple of years ago if you will.
Okay.
So that's the U.S.
And then for international you have built out a lot of new markets you bought a lot of new markets that SG&amp;A now running higher than the U.S.
is that going to continue to grow from here or is that going to start scaling as you sort of build those markets up? No it definitely will scale.
I mean a lot of the upfront costs that we've incurred is in preparation of supporting the existing business and new business.
So like the U.S.
I would expect that to trail down as well and continue to support the revenue growth.
And so as that revenue continues I would expect the SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to decline.
Yes that's across the management team that's the view.
Phil it's Jim again.
You've got to remember we went from 3 countries on 2 continents to 9 countries on 4 continents and there's some level of infrastructure needed to operate globally like that.
We put the majority of it in place and Tom's exactly right.
The growth rates in SG&amp;A going forward will moderate.
So in the U.S.
we can expect it to sort of decline on a dollar basis and then international sort of scaling percentage down is that fair? Yes.
That's fair.
Your next question comes from Clay Moran with Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> Could you talk about the same tower growth across your 4 largest markets U.S.
Mexico Brazil and India? And then the services business have you taken that to any of these foreign markets? And if not do you plan to? Okay.
Clay let me cover the -- just on the same tower perspective.
And again remember same tower is on those towers that we had 12 months ago right? And it doesn't deal with the things that we've built or acquired in the last 12 months.
And I would say the same tower in the United States and internationally overall is not dissimilar in kind of that 8% to 9% range.
And we would expect on the U.S.
side I think relative to what our outlook has the continued kind of same type of same tower growth.
And on the international side I would expect it to start to increase relative particularly down in Latin America where we've seen a lot of new spectrum being deployed if you will in -- across the markets particularly in Brazil and in Mexico.
And we would expect in longer-term to really start to develop the single-tower co-location market that we built in Chile Peru and Colombia where we acquired those towers from Telefónica and have one tenant on them and we now expect to be able co-lo on those towers with other people coming into the marketplace.
And Clay it's Jim.
On the services side just again to put it in context it's only about 2% of company revenue to begin with.
The only reason we do some of these services is to facilitate and reduce the timeline or the cycle time for a tenant to get on our tower.
In the U.S.
there is a range of services that we think is helpful in that regard including site acquisition and getting zoning and building permitting because some of those processes are pretty thorough.
But internationally we don't believe that all of those elements are needed.
The one we might attempt to globalize a little bit is our structural engineering capability which I frankly think is the best in the world at this particular skill set.
But that's only about 0.5% of company revenues.
So aside from that you're not going to see a big deployment of our services business outside the U.S.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Going back to the same tower growth then India is about 8% and probably stays at about that level? I mean today it's generally -- I mean I'm talking about the international market overall.
And India over the last 12 months or so we've continued to see increased levels of co-location in the marketplace.
As Jim mentioned before we would expect to see even increased build over the next 6 months.
So longer-term I think when the spectrum continuously get build out I would hope that we might even see higher levels of same tower growth in the marketplace.
Tenancy is still down in that kind of the 1.6 1.7 range.
So we remain very bullish on India.
Our last question comes from Gray Powell with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just to make sure that I completely understand the updated guidance correctly.
Is the $30 million increase entirely FX and acquisitions and there's no organic based upside there? That's right.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
And then one chart that you guys had I thought it was pretty helpful it was on Slide 5 where you basically have the waterfall going from reported revenue growth to core revenue growth to same tower revenue growth for Q2 can you kind of give us those stats or the stats that are implied by your 2011 guidance? Yes.
Actually it's pretty consistent on an overall basis.
I think that the same tower is going to be in that 8 plus or minus -- plus percent range and the -- actually the new sites will probably be in the 12% range such that our overall kind of on a core basis we'll be in that 20% range.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And just in terms of the assumptions driving your outlook is it safe to say that activity from AT&amp;T and Verizon still account for call it half of leasing and that you haven't really baked in any potential upside to the extent that Sprint gets more aggressive in the second half of the year? The way I would characterize it Gray is that in the U.S.
AT&amp;T and Verizon by far are the most active carriers yes to that.
And also you're correct on the second half of your assumption is we don't have significant expectation in the outlook of Sprint activity at this point.
I will now turn the conference back to the presenters for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you everyone for joining us today and we look forward to speaking to you on our next quarter call.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Anita and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Ms.
Stearns Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining American Tower's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investors tab on our website www.americantower.com.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows: First I will provide a brief overview of our third quarter results then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter.
Finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2011 outlook and future operating performance our pending acquisition our consideration to elect real estate investment trust status our stock repurchase program and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2011 our definitive proxy statement filed on October 11 2011 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our third quarter 2011 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for over 97% of our total revenues which were generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 23% to nearly $615 million from the third quarter of 2010.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 14.5% to over $400 million.
Operating income increased 7% to over $228 million.
And net loss attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $16 million or $0.04 per basic and diluted common share.
During the quarter we recorded unrealized noncash losses of approximately $145 million due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to over $1 billion of nonfunctional currency-denominated intercompany loans which have been implemented to facilitate the funding of our international expansion initiatives and general operations.
These loans for accounting purposes are remeasured on a fair market value basis at the end of each quarter based on the actual FX rate on the last day of the quarter end.
As a result the material strengthening of the U.S.
dollar during late September the remeasurement of these loans generated a loss for accounting purposes.
It is important to note that we intend to reinvest the cash we generate into our foreign operations and therefore do not anticipate recognizing a corresponding cash loss.
Finally before I turn the call over to Tom I'd like to highlight for everyone that we have provided 2 new metrics in our press release this morning: Funds from operations FFO and adjusted funds from operations AFFO which have been presented on a pro forma basis as if the reconversion had occurred January 1 2010.
We believe these metrics will be helpful to our investors as we move towards our proposed REIT conversion.
We've provided definitions and reconciliations for these metrics in this morning's press release and in addition you can find historical calculations on our website.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that our business continued to produce solid operational and financial results during the third quarter and as a result of our year-to-date performance being slightly ahead of our expectations coupled with certain recent acquisitions and events in both the U.S.
and our international markets we have raised our annual outlook for both revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
If you'll please turn to Slide 5 you will see that for the third quarter our total rental and management revenue increased by about 23% to $615 million or 18.6% when you exclude the impact of our international segment's pass-through revenues.
This pass-through revenue is attributable to the roughly 11 000 new sites we have constructed or acquired in our international markets since the beginning of the third quarter of 2010.
For the quarter our core growth increased 24.2% which excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and straight-line lease accounting.
Our core growth reflects core organic growth of 9.1% and growth from new sites of over 15%.
The key drivers of our consolidated organic growth include new business commitments in the U.S.
which have been trending slightly ahead of 2010 levels.
As expected AT&amp;T and Verizon's LTE network deployments are driving the majority of our leasing -- U.S.
leasing volume.
In addition we are experiencing strong demand in our international markets.
In Latin America for example recent spectrum auctions are enabling our customers to launch 3G networks and their initial overlay deployments are underway.
Our revenue growth from new sites reflects the impact of our acquisition or construction of nearly 12 000 sites globally since the beginning of the third quarter of last year.
Over 90% of these new sites are located in international markets where we have focused on diversifying our portfolio across 3 key regions: Latin America Asia and EMEA.
Our results this quarter reflect the eighth straight quarter of double-digit rental and management revenue growth.
Turning to Slide 6.
During the third quarter our domestic rental and management segment generated results slightly ahead of expectations with revenue growth driven primarily by new cash leasing revenue from our legacy towers.
For the quarter our domestic rental and management segment revenue grew 9.1% to nearly $437 million.
Our domestic segment core revenue growth which excludes the impact of straight-line lease accounting was 10.3%.
During the quarter our domestic core organic growth was over 9% which reflects commenced new leasing activity in the U.S.
slightly ahead of 2010 levels which as I mentioned previously has been primarily generated by 2 of our largest customers as they focus on deploying initial coverage for their 4G LTE networks nationwide.
The remainder of our core growth was generated from the over 900 sites we've acquired or constructed since the beginning of the third quarter of 2010 including the 113 sites we added during the third quarter of this year.
For the third quarter our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased nearly $28 million or approximately 8.8% which reflects a year-over-year conversion rate of about 76%.
During the quarter our gross margin conversion rate was lower than historical levels primarily due to a couple of small onetime items which collectively depressed the conversion rate by over 5%.
The largest of the onetime cost was attributable to $1.1 million in higher-than-expected property taxes.
On a year-to-date basis our domestic segment gross margin was 80% and gross margin conversion rate was 84% right where we would expect it to be.
Further and as we've previously highlighted during 2011 we continue to make selective investments in systems and people throughout the organization.
As a result of these initiatives our domestic rental and management segment selling general and administrative and development costs have increased about $5 million from the year-ago period.
And finally as a result of our growth in gross margin offset by our investments in SG&amp;A operating profit grew 7.1% to just over $325 million.
Normalizing for the onetime direct expenses and our higher SG&amp;A costs our operating profit conversion rate was about 79%.
Turning to Slide 7.
Since the beginning of the third quarter of 2010 we've continued to make significant investments in our international rental and management segment adding over 11 000 tower sites to our portfolio which includes about 1 800 sites added during this quarter alone.
As a result our international rental and management segment revenue has increased approximately 79% to $178 million and now accounts for about 29% of our rental and management revenues.
Reported revenue growth and core revenue growth which excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and straight-line lease accounting were both 79% as the favorability of foreign currency exchange rates on a year-over-year basis offset a slight decline in straight-line revenue.
In addition as we add new assets to our international portfolio our pass-through revenue continues to increase as we share a portion of our operating costs with our customers.
During the third quarter our international pass-through revenue was $54 million and reflects an increase of approximately $27 million from the year-ago period.
Even after excluding the impacts of pass-through revenue growth in our international segment would have been 71%.
Year-to-date organic leasing demand from our international portfolio has been steadily increasing as our customers in Latin America have begun deployments of recently awarded spectrum while our customers in India continue to focus on adding capacity and coverage to their initial voice networks.
From a gross margin perspective our international rental and management segment increased 61% year-over-year to over $113 million reflecting a 55% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenues our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate was 91% and 84% respectively.
Further our international rental and management SG&amp;A expense increased nearly $9 million from the third quarter of 2010.
Nearly all of the increase is attributable to costs associated with establishing our presence in our new markets as well as investing in scaling our legacy operations to support our ongoing growth.
As a result of our international rental and management segment gross margin growth our international segment operating profit increased 60% to approximately $92 million.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the third quarter of 2010 was about 14.5% with our core growth for the quarter at 16.5% on a currency-neutral basis and excluding the net impact to straight-line lease accounting.
As highlighted through 2011 we have been focused on 2 key initiatives which have resulted in lower than historical levels of adjusted EBITDA margin and conversion rates.
We view these initiatives which include our international expansion as well as regionalization of certain overhead functions as investment which will position us to drive continued levels of growth in the future.
During the quarter total revenue increased just over $117 million of which approximately $27 million was attributable to an increase in pass-through revenue.
Direct expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense increased approximately $44 million of which approximately $27 million was attributable to the increase in pass-through costs and nearly $7 million was attributable to direct expenses in our new markets.
Finally SG&amp;A excluding stock-based compensation expense increased $22 million from the year-ago period of which slightly more than half was attributable to new market or regionalization cost.
Normalizing for the impact of pass-through our new markets in our regionalization investments our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was 78%.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 64% or nearly 70% excluding the impact of pass-through revenues.
As outlined in Slide 9 we continue to deploy our excess capital first into discretionary investments through our capital expenditure program.
During the third quarter we spent $90 million on discretionary capital projects which includes the costs associated with the completion of the construction of 682 towers including 57 sites in the U.S.
and 625 sites internationally.
For the quarter the majority of our international new tower builds were in India where we are working on a build-to-suit project for both Reliance and Vodafone and the remainder were primarily in Mexico Brazil and Chile.
Year-to-date we've exceeded our build-to-suit expectations and have now completed the construction of 204 sites in the U.S.
and 946 sites internationally.
In addition we continue to gain traction in the U.S.
on our shared generator product line.
And during the quarter we completed the installation of approximately 250 shared generators.
Our discretionary property purchase program continues to be successful securing additional interest under our existing tower sites and have invested about $80 million year-to-date and on a pro forma basis as a result of our recent acquisition of land interest during the fourth quarter we currently own over 20% of the land interest under our U.S.
sites.
Our spending on redevelopment capital expenditures which we incur to accommodate additional tenants in our properties has trended up during 2011 primarily as a result of 2 key factors: First in the U.S.
we are working on upgrading our Indoor DAS portfolio in Las Vegas LTE.
Second as activity picks up in our legacy Latin American markets certain sites require further augmentation to accommodate the additional capacity needs of our customers.
Finally our capital improvements and corporate capital expenditures have simply increased as a function of our tower portfolio growth.
From a capital allocation perspective year-to-date we spent nearly $400 million on capital expenditures and over $1.2 billion on acquisitions which includes the acquisition of 135 sites in the U.S.
and over 3 600 sites internationally.
Finally we've spent nearly $400 million to repurchase about 7.6 million shares of our common stock.
Looking forward to the remainder of 2011 we continue to have a robust development pipeline which will continue to utilize a portion of our remaining investment capacity to close these transactions.
In addition and as we have previously disclosed we expect to make an accumulated retained earnings and profits distribution during the fourth quarter as we move toward our conversion to a REIT on January 1 of next year.
Turning to Slide 10.
During the third quarter our investment strategy and capital allocation process continued to drive growth in recurring free cash flow and return on invested capital.
I'd like to spend a moment reviewing our track record of deploying capital while simultaneously increasing recurring free cash flow and return on invested capital.
Since 2006 we've invested approximately $7.7 billion in capital expenditures acquisitions and stock repurchases all while driving compounded annual growth in recurring free cash flow and recurring free cash flow per share of about 13% and 15% respectively.
As many of you know we are very disciplined as to how we allocate capital.
We first seek to reinvest into our business through our capital expenditure program.
Our next priority is to invest through acquisitions both in our existing and potentially new markets.
Finally when our opportunities for reinvestment in assets which exceed our risk-adjusted return hurdles are exhausted we deploy our excess cash flow through our stock repurchase program.
We believe we are able to maintain this process largely as a result of our solid balance sheet position a position we plan to maintain.
Throughout this process our objectives are clear: To continue to concurrently drive growth and return on invested capital and recurring free cash flow.
We believe this capital allocation strategy will create significant value for our stockholders and believe our track record stands for itself.
On Slide 11 we've updated our outlook for the year.
We are raising our rental and management revenue outlook by $25 million to $2.3.75 (sic) [$2.375] billion at the midpoint which reflects stronger core business performance of $30 million which is partially offset by approximately $20 million of foreign currency headwinds compared to our prior expectations and the positive impact of $15 million of straight-line revenues related to a newly executed master lease agreement signed with a major U.S.
customer.
Our expectations for stronger core business performance are primarily attributable to better-than-expected levels of new business in our legacy markets primarily the U.S.
and Latin America during the second half of 2011 increased corresponding levels of pass-through revenue due to the addition of new international sites and finally at the impact of our recent acquisition of about 2 000 property interests which closed in early October.
As a result we now expect 2011 rental and management revenue to grow by about $440 million generating annual core growth of almost 22% at the midpoint.
In addition we are now forecasting that our adjusted EBITDA will be $20 million higher with the midpoint of the new range at $1.59 billion for 2011.
The increase in adjusted EBITDA is attributable to the increase in revenue previously described.
As a result for 2011 we now anticipate adjusted EBITDA to increase over $240 million generating annual core growth of 16% at the midpoint.
With respect to capital expenditures we are increasing our expectations for spending by $75 million at the midpoint which reflects slightly higher maintenance CapEx approximately $20 million of additional land interest purchases and $50 million in additional discretionary capital project spending which we anticipate will be primarily be incurred in connection with the completion of new sites.
For the year we now expect capital expenditures of $500 million at the midpoint and to complete the construction of between 1 600 and 1 800 new sites.
Finally we are increasing our outlook for cash provided by operating activities by $5 million which reflects the cash impact of our expected increase in adjusted EBITDA.
As a result we now anticipate cash provided by operating activities to increase by $100 million or approximately 10% at the midpoint.
Turning to Slide 12.
We continue to have a strong development pipeline through both our build-to-suit program and pending acquisitions.
Our outlook for 2011 currently reflects our completed acquisition of about 2 000 property interests in the U.S.
as well as our fourth quarter build-to-suit plan of approximately 450 to 650 sites.
Incremental to these investments we currently have approximately 2 900 additional existing sites under contract which we expect to acquire over the next year.
And our development teams continue to be very active seeking further opportunities for expansion.
Turning to Slide 13.
And in conclusion I'd like to spend a few moments on our remaining objectives in 2011 and provide some context for our expectations in 2012.
First we believe our continued investments globally will generate significant value for our shareholders as our track record has demonstrated.
Specifically for the full year of 2011 we expect we will have invested almost $1 billion in the U.S.
and just over $1 billion in our international markets through our capital program and acquisitions.
With respect to our REIT conversion we remain right on track to be able to operate as a REIT on January 1 of next year.
Recently we successfully completed a key milestone as our S-4 was declared effective by the SEC on September 22.
In addition our proxy statement materials have been mailed to stockholders and we will be holding a special stockholder meeting on November 29 where stockholders as of October 3 will be asked to approve the proposed merger of American Tower Corporation into American Tower REIT.
Our NYSE ticker symbol by the way will remain AMT.
The merger will affect certain charter provisions to ensure we comply with REIT-related share ownership regulations.
In addition we continue to make substantial progress on our internal work streams.
And as we near the end of 2011 our final work surrounding our earnings and profits distribution is wrapping up.
We continue to expect that our distribution will not exceed $200 million and will be paid using cash on hand.
We expect we will provide final certainty around the size of this distribution following our November 29 stockholder vote as well as guidance regarding our first quarter and full year 2012 dividend.
Please note there's no guarantee that we will ultimately elect REIT status and the election is subject to board approval.
And finally any determination to elect REIT status will not be made until the end of the year.
Finally while 2011 has been a very successful year we believe 2012 will provide further compelling opportunities for us to generate solid financial performance.
While we will not issue formal guidance until we report our fourth quarter results in February I'd like to spend a few minutes framing our expectations for core growth in 2012.
First we expect the key drivers of core growth including commenced new leasing activity escalations in churn to be at comparable levels to 2011 in our domestic segment.
In addition we expect that our new markets will begin to contribute in an even more meaningful way to our commenced leasing activity driving higher levels of new business on a consolidated basis.
Further we've made some significant investments this year which we believe will generate meaningful incremental revenue in 2012.
From a margin perspective we've made select investments over the last 18 months to scale our business to support our growth initiatives globally particularly in the area of SG&amp;A.
Looking to the future we will remain focused on driving SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to more historical levels.
With that before I turn the call over to Jim I'd like to take a moment to thank everyone within the organization who has worked tirelessly to ensure we are REIT ready January 1 of 2012.
Jim? Thanks Tom.
I'd like to begin by also expressing our appreciation to American Tower's managers and employees around the world that have delivered the company's first ever quarter of rental and management revenue above $600 million for one quarter and adjusted EBITDA of over $400 million for the quarter.
With greater than $600 million for Tower revenue and over $400 million for EBITDA these are truly memorable milestones for our company and our people.
Before we move on to your questions I would like to focus on 3 areas today: Additional detail on our capital allocation process that Tom overviewed earlier the beneficial attributes of communication site real estate what we all affectionately refer to as towers for short and the major industry trends that we anticipate for 2012 that will underpin our formal guidance that we'll provide to you early next year.
As Tom emphasized earlier the fundamental principle of our capital allocation process is it is designed to both drive growth through reinvestment in the business and increase our risk-adjusted return on capital that's invested.
We measure the inorganic growth of each of our investment proposals at 3 levels: Leasing revenue adjusted EBITDA and recurring free cash flow which is essentially equivalent to adjusted funds from operations.
So to determine the risk-adjusted return of a project we increase the hurdle rates to such factors as degree of tenant concentration on the lease stream credit ratings of the major tenants and the sovereign debt spread versus U.S.
treasuries if the investment is outside the United States et cetera.
We then overlay the growth and return profile of the investment opportunity over the baseline 10-year business plan for American Tower Corporation which assumes that excess cash from operations in the baseline case is all returned to shareholders via our stock repurchase plan.
If and only if after this modeling the AFFO and ROIC performance over the planning period exceeds that base case do we go through with the investments.
This deliberate process institutionalizes a high level of discipline to our capital allocation program.
We believe that this disciplined process should provide our investors with a very high confidence level that our investments in construction projects and acquisitions are superior to simply and only buying back stock.
Since we hold a strong belief that superior performance for equity holders can be attained through disciplined investing and communications real estate assets it obviously follows that the wider the universe of investment opportunities the better the prospects for driving shareholder value.
Consequently we have diligently pursued the expansion of the investment opportunities available to American Tower on 2 dimensions: One is an international dimension and the other is the product line dimension.
Tom provided earlier some of the key facts and figures such as 29% of Q3 tower revenue coming from international nearly 80% leasing growth in that international segment and the pro forma for potential deals in the pipeline that over 50% of our towers for the end of this year would be outside the United States.
You also heard that in the U.S.
we're accelerating our shared generator product deployment upgrading our highest profile Indoor DAS properties to LTE and have acquired a sizable portfolio of land interests that brings another lease revenue stream primarily from our existing domestic customer base.
So let's take a few minutes to drill down into a couple of recent investment decisions one international and one product line extension.
First we will review one of our recent investment initiatives in Latin America.
Earlier this year we acquired the assets of a third-party tower leasing company in a market in which we've been operating for upwards of 10 years.
We have an experienced leadership team in that region and a proven workforce in country and we determined that we could essentially eliminate the acquired company's SG&amp;A costs.
The target's existing lease upgrade was relatively high.
Its customer base was quite diversified and well complemented our own existing rent rule in that country.
The towers also demonstrated strong additional leasing prospects due to recent spectrum auctions and 3G rollouts that we're getting underway.
All these factors gave us high confidence in our modeling assumptions and led us to an expected internal rate of return on investment in the mid-teens which is above our risk-adjusted hurdle rate for that country and that kind of asset.
The second example of the disciplined investment approach that we take was our acquisition of 1 800 property interests in the U.S.
that we announced a few weeks ago.
This transaction provided 3 strategic benefits to American Tower: One it entails a substantial lease stream from an adjacent asset class land rights under towers.
The vast majority of this lease stream is from our existing customer base including AT&amp;T Verizon and Sprint Nextel.
The lease stream escalates offers upside if the carrier needs additional rights in the future or nears the final termination date.
And this lease stream is far less likely to experience any kind of churn.
Two we secured land interest under a number of our own towers which protects our long-term tower lease stream while reducing our run rate operating costs along the way.
Third a portion of the land interest were under other tower company structures providing us a vehicle to potentially arrange follow-on transactions with other third-party landowners.
We've already accomplished one of these assets in cash land swap initiatives to secure land interest under an additional significant number of our own towers.
So even without quantifying any of these types of potential follow-on benefits in the valuation of the original land deal our analysis led us to the conclusion that the overall return on that investment should have been above our risk-adjusted hurdle rate for domestic market in this asset class.
So let's now turn to the real estate-related benefits of all these kinds of assets.
The vast majority of American Tower's assets are clearly real estate-type investments.
As we move closer to our REIT conversion we're engaged in an active outreach program to introduce American Tower and the industry to dedicated real estate investors.
Our message includes we think a number of compelling aspects which should resonate with both dedicated REIT investors income and value-focused investors as well as our historical base of growth and telecom investors as well.
First we generate approximately 97% of our income from leasing our tower sites and other land parcels primarily through investment grade tenants.
Our properties are long-lived structures currently depreciated over 20 years some of which have been in service for over 50 years indicating their even longer physical lives.
Unlike the capital equipment that our customers install which generally has a much shorter useful life and requires significant ongoing capital investment to maintain and upgrade our business requires relatively little maintenance CapEx.
Second we're technology agnostic.
Our customers bear the risk associated with technology selection and obsolescence.
And as the result of the laws of physics there's currently no substitute technology that can replicate the signal propagation characteristics that our customers can achieve from installing on traditional macro tower sites.
Third just like office buildings tenant improvements are often made on our sites when new tenants and existing tenants choose to occupy space in our towers.
Generally contributions to these tenant improvements are shared by the new tenant and by us.
Fourth our revenues grow not only as annual escalation enhances our existing leases and new tenants come on to our properties but also as our existing customers increase their utilization of space at our tower sites.
This occurs if additional equipment is needed to support technology upgrades as our customers network capacity becomes constrained resulting in rate-enhancing amendments to our leases.
And finally as we look through the real estate lands and as I highlighted earlier we have a solid track record of deploying the significant cash our business generates under a disciplined institutionalized investment process.
And we're committed to maintain our historical capital allocation priorities as a REIT.
We are planning to initiate a quarterly dividend in early 2012 which should be an additional attraction for value and income-focused investors too.
Once we have funded the quarterly dividend distribution to maintain our REIT qualification we will continue to actively seek investments that exceed our risk-adjusted investment hurdles.
We strive to identify and consummate acquisitions and construction programs to generate unlevered IRRs depending on the type of asset and its location ranging from the very high single digits for core assets in the U.S.
high teens or even low 20s for tower assets in places like Africa.
We believe that the combination of our growth and recurring free cash flow or adjusted funds from operations and our future dividend to stockholders will create a compelling investment opportunity for real estate value and income and growth-oriented investors.
Turning to the key industry trends that will influence next year's planning and guidance.
We're now in the midst of our internal budgeting process for 2012.
This process begins with a bottoms-up assessment within each of our 5 U.S.
regions and each of our international markets that aggregates the detailed forecast of every one of our local sales teams by territory and by customer.
We endeavor to confirm our projections via discussions with executives and senior managers and our customers and further test our conclusions against the public statements that are made by carriers regarding their technology rollout schedules in 2012 capital expense budgets.
As has been our practice as Tom said we'll provide our formal 2012 guidance during our next earnings call to enable us to include the latest and most accurate inputs regarding our own 2011 year-end run rate all closed acquisitions from which we'll be receiving new lease revenues in 2012 all publicly announced wireless carrier budgets and foreign exchange rates.
But many of the key trends that will underpin our ultimate 2012 numbers are already evident today.
Regarding the addition of assets we believe that we're on track to add nearly 3 000 new towers that are not in current 2011 guidance in Ghana Colombia and South Africa by the end of this year or very early next year.
Moreover we expect to build approximately 500 new towers in the fourth quarter this year primarily in India and Latin America.
We'll enjoy the benefits of all these newly constructed towers as well as the more than 2 000 land interest that we recently acquired for the full year of 2012 and we'll incorporate all that into our guidance.
Our locally deployed business development teams in the U.S.
Latin America EMEA and Asia are also pursuing additional acquisition opportunities and we're also hopeful some of these will come to fruition during the year in 2012.
With respect to leasing demand there's a number of supportive trends.
In the U.S.
we expect customers and consumers to continue to convert from basic feature phones up to smartphones while at the same time the popularity of tablets mobile computing and media devices further increases.
Penetration of these advanced devices is being strongly encouraged by all the domestic national carriers especially the ones you just heard do their calls over the last few days: AT&amp;T Verizon and Sprint with 3 of them aggressively marketing the iPhone.
Adding to this trend are the regional and value-oriented carriers who are now also marketing smartphones to their customers and installing LTE into their networks.
As to build plans we expect AT&amp;T and Verizon to continue on their current pacing of network investment with potentially Sprint and perhaps other carriers becoming more active in site leasing and amendments as we cross into 2012.
At the moment we expect demand for tower space from U.S.
carriers in 2012 to be at least as strong as we are experiencing this year.
We do not plan at this time to include any significant contributions from Clearwire LightSquared to issue a federal public safety network but we would add these in later if funding and build-out plans are announced by any of them.
In Latin America we anticipate that America Móvil and Telefónica will compete vigorously in multiple countries in which we are present and that they will both be investing in strengthening their respective networks to do so.
We also expect Nextel International continue to invest in its infrastructure in multiple countries to deploy new 3G spectrum and services.
A couple of other examples are Iusacell in Mexico which now has access to additional funding through its arrangement with Televisa and Oi in Brazil also seems now poised to have the financial capacity to augment its network.
In Sub-Saharan Africa we're getting excellent traction in introducing the commercial collocation business model into South Africa and into Ghana.
So we're looking forward to some nice organic growth there.
And in India the major national carriers are beginning to accelerate their network build-out efforts.
We are currently seeing strong demand for build-to-suit towers that should continue into next year in India and we're seeing their wireless carriers increasing their outsourcing of new tower builds and collocations.
Finally we have no known sources of significant incremental churn in any of our markets in 2012 that we're aware of at this time.
Just one last item before we take your questions.
We continue to press forward toward our plan to be fully prepared for REIT conversion as of January 1 2012.
Most all of our investors by now should indeed have received documents related to our shareholder vote scheduled for November 29 as Tom said only a few weeks away.
These materials contain important information explaining the proposed reorganization to facilitate a conversion to REIT for federal tax purposes.
And if you have any questions about any of the materials or the meeting please feel free to contact our Investor Relations team.
And as we ask the operator to open up the lines for Q&amp;A I will remind everyone that we will make no lengthy public statements nor answer any questions on the recent and devastating collapse of the Red Sox.
All we'll say at this time is wait till next year when the newly constituted management team and team of players will surely climb to the top of the heap in AL East again.
Operator you can open it up for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess we should just start on you talked through 2012 pretty well and you made it pretty clear that there's no sort of pending Alltel churn.
Can you talk though about the potential -- the sort of market for new builds out there? As SBA reported they talked about a little bit weaker new build activity.
Is new build sort of coming down? Is it becoming more competitive to be out there? What do you see? Actually Phil on a global basis our build this year will be 1 600 to 1 800 towers.
We'll obviously provide guidance in February of where that is but I would expect to see similar levels of build programs next year.
We've seen increased levels of builds even within the U.S.
and I think our U.S.
tower team would tell me that the pipeline there is as strong as ever.
So I would expect us to be able to continue with strong build program both in the U.S.
and as I said when you couple that with some of the international markets where they're really still not just filling in the whitespace but really trying to reach get reach and coverage in many of these markets I would expect a pretty robust build program next year as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about the services business not necessarily guidance? But as you think about 2012 we could see ramping up in demand.
How well are you able to sort of flex that business up if those demands will get bigger? Phil it's Jim.
Our target objective for our services group is to facilitate and speed up lease collocations and amendments on our own sites.
So we can flex that activity as much as we need to to make sure that our customers get served on our towers and so we've done that over the last couple of years.
It's reflected in revenue going -- it can be up or down 20% a year in that business but it's only 3% of our total revenue stream deliberately and we can flex it as much as we need to facilitate people getting on our sites.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Research Division</strong> If I just go back to one of the slides that you put up on just the how do you get to the rental and management growth for the third quarter.
I thought 2 of the interesting items were that the escalation remained a little bit above the average but the churn showed some real significant improvement.
Can you talk about those 2 variables going forward and how we should think about average escalation on a cash basis and the cancellation rate? And then finally just on the domestic core growth you were saying that you thought 2012 could be consistent core growth to '11.
What's the core growth in '11 that we should be thinking about? I think you said it was 9% in the third quarter but just a basis of comparison would be great.
Sure Michael.
It's Tom.
First on the last one our core U.S.
core growth this year is around 9% and I would expect that to be able to continue going forward.
Relative to the escalations I think that the escalation rate going forward it can vary to a certain extent depending upon contracts of that sort.
I mean we've generally told people that our escalation rate is kind of in the 3.5% rate.
But remember from an international perspective we also have CPI that can fluctuate at plus or minus.
So it's 3.8%.
I'd say it's kind of the middle 3s if you will is probably a fair number.
And relative to churn yes it is a little bit lower this year.
Last year was a bit higher.
As you remember we had the conversion as we talked about in the broadcast side from analog to digital.
But again I think going forward churn at kind of that 1.5% rate is probably a pretty good number.
Your next question will come from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess it looks like you locked in a new master lease agreement with Sprint and we've seen that these agreements had been approached differently by different tower companies with different carriers.
So in some cases you kind of just start getting a full payment on day one with no real escalation.
Other cases these agreements kind of lay out the rules of the road to establish what you would get paid if certain criteria are met.
Could you just maybe qualitatively talk about how this particular agreement was structured particularly the extent to which it gives you the opportunity to achieve upside? Yes Brett it's Jim Taiclet.
Over the past 2 years we've been really seeking to elevate our relationship with each of the 4 major U.S.
carriers on a contractual basis.
The objectives we've had have been to meaningfully contribute to the success of our major customers as they transition to the next generation of technology.
But we got to acknowledge along the way the complexity of the transitions with respect to their spectrum positions equipment loading and changes many other factors that they're facing.
And another goal from the customers' perspective for us was to streamline the application approval process integrate systems and things like that to reduce the time and reduce the cost of their rollout for them okay? On our side our goal has been to lock in steady and significant increases in net leasing revenues from each of these customers for a multi-year period.
The elements of that are really that we get a robust top line growth and a core contract by increasing our customers' flexibility within the business base they have with us.
And that essentially also eliminates churn risk over a long period of time by doing that.
We also in these arrangements provide for additional upside to our revenues and I think that's the heart of what you're really asking.
So when there's requirements for new assets or things above certain bucket rights et cetera then there'll be incremental revenues at a site basis that kick in on top of all that.
And so that's how we've striven to elevate our relationship with the customers.
And again it's very beneficial and you get a predictable revenue ramp over time and really eliminate any kind of major churn incident or event based on technology change or something else.
We're now halfway there in reaching these types of comprehensive agreements with our large U.S.
customers.
We've got 2 out of 4 done.
In 2010 many of you surmise that we secured such an agreement with AT&amp;T and today I'm pleased to confirm that we've also done so with Sprint.
Those contracts are different in their terms individually and we won't necessarily go through each of those today.
But we're going to continue to seek elevated contractual relationships like this with all of our major customers inside and outside the U.S.
as appropriate over time because we believe these kinds of elevated arrangements are truly mutually beneficial.
And again the basics are they facilitate our customers' technology transitions and they provide us with strong visible line of new growth for American Tower which essentially eliminates churn during these network transitions.
And so that's what we've got in place with Sprint.
We think it's going to be good for their migration to their new technologies and we think it's going to be great for us.
So that's really the announcement today for Sprint.
The next question will come from the line of Ric Prentiss with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions.
First Jim you had mentioned leasing demand for '12 in the parameters and framework if you will that T and Verizon would continue and there is potential for Sprint and others to get active.
Since you've now announced officially that Sprint with the MLA have you seen a flow of applications start once you've signed the MLA? Or what are your thoughts as far as what might be changed from AT&amp;T [ph] Verizon continue and Sprint may be active? Well we've got a situation where our revenue stream is very confident right now.
And the over and above fundamental contract piece we will see as the year unfolds.
So that's the interesting part for us which is a really nice revenue ramp that's guaranteed with again 2 of our 4 major customers in the U.S.
for 2012 and then how much of the over and above are we going to see that comes on a week-by-week basis from each of the carriers that have these kinds of contracts.
So that's what I'm referring to Ric.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not that you don't expect it to occur you're just waiting for it to occur kind of? Well in magnitudes timing what's within what's in addition to rights how many new towers they may need to build or DAS systems those kinds of things will evolve over the course of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tom you had mentioned I think on a couple of slides the regionalization for future growth on the domestic SG&amp;A line help us understand a little bit about what you're thinking that might lead to.
Well I think overall right now if you take a look at the third quarter Ric I think our SG&amp;A is north of 10% of revenue.
And that's quite a bit above where we've been historically and we've invested -- if you take a look on a year-over-year basis about $22 million of additional SG&amp;A this quarter.
And well over half of that are for these types of events either entering new markets or regionalization putting systems in kind of boring things right? Like putting new general electric systems into Ghana and those types of events which are very important obviously to us.
So I would expect that those rates start to trend down well below the 10% level and I think our historical levels are more in the 8.5% level.
So I would hope that over the next couple of years that we would be able to trend back down towards those levels.
We're very focused on doing that.
Right Tom and it's really a revenue growth ramp that we'll be able to more than cover these investments in SG&amp;A.
That's what they're meant to do is to enable the revenue growth ramp in different places and different products.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate the AFFO information.
That was good to see.
Do you expect that in 2012 you will actually provide that officially in guidance as well? Yes Ric I think we will.
And I think it's very important to provide as many different to be as transparent as we possibly can with every aspect of our business and investors are looking for that type of information.
So clearly we'll be providing it.
Your next question will come from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Tom I know you're not going to give dividend guidance until a little bit later on here.
But can you just talk philosophically about how you're likely to use the NOL balance where you think it's going to end the year and how that's going to phase in and offset dividends over the next couple of years? And then just a clarification on the Sprint MLA.
Sprint has been talking about turning down iDEN by the end of '13.
I think your leases extend a lot longer than that.
Is one of the flexibilities they've got here is the ability to turn off some of those sites quicker than maybe your leases would allow them to give them to offset that with the new demand that you see over the long term? Simon it's Jim and I'll turn it over to Tom on the NOL balance.
But the key facet for us on this particular agreement is we will not have a revenue an adverse revenue effect from iDEN sites being moved turned off decommissioned or anything else.
So we have a holistic agreement with Sprint now where we're working with them on their overall network.
And whether an individual technology moves off in a certain year or a different year is really going to be irrelevant to us now.
So iDEN churn is not an issue for American Tower at this point.
And Simon relative to the dividend as we've been dialoguing I mean the way we continue to look at our return is on a total shareholder basis largest piece of it coming from growth as we've been able to generate.
And I think with the pipeline that we have in place and the base of business that we have we're quite comfortable and excited about the kind of growth going forward.
I think if you take a look at the overall yield what we've been discussing is the fact that our yield will be I believe consistent with those S&amp;P 500 companies with similar growth characteristics which has historically kind of been in that 1.5-plus kind of percent range out of the gate.
We will have NOLs of probably north of $1 billion going into 2012.
So my sense is that we'll be feathering that in on a pretty much an even basis over the planning period.
And if you can just kind of wait for 30 days or so we'll be providing more visibility in terms of what that is once the board ultimately approves what that payout ratios including both the E&amp;P distribution this year as well as then what 2012 dividend program would look like.
Your next question will come from the line of David Barden with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just quickly 2 if I could.
Tom you referenced the organic growth in the international markets which you think will be accelerating and contributing to 2012.
Could you share with us kind of what those international organic growth rates are maybe divided into kind of India and then the other maybe Latin America bucket? And then the second question just because these metrics are new I think to a lot of people with respect to the AFFO calculation in particular Tom there's some new items that we're talking about here like corporate CapEx or dividing up the depreciation between the core assets and non-core assets could you kind of walk us through the calc in kind of how you've come to some of these numbers as a baseline? Sure sure.
David first of all with regards to kind of commenced new business I would tell you that our -- from an international perspective and I'd like to keep it the international and domestic business our domestic -- our international business in the third quarter of 2011 was 3 or 4x versus where it was in 2010 at the same period.
And a big contributor of this was clearly the new Latin American markets the 3 new markets there as well as the 2 new African markets.
And so we would expect as new spectrum gets deployed and networks are getting rolled out there that we would be able to enjoy some really nice growth I think in all of the new markets those as well as some of the new things that are going on within Mexico as there's new spectrum down there and new entrants into some of our Latin American markets so...
Tom I think we can also add we look at our international business then we report it as a segment because we look at it as a portfolio type approach right? So the best way for I think us to talk about and advance the business internationally is the combined organic growth rate which is about 9% in 2011.
We think it could be at that or better next year because of some very good things happening in these individual markets.
So we won't necessarily break out country-by-country.
None of them are over 10% of revenue anyway.
But collectively they're touching on almost 30% now and that vibrancy within that portfolio is what we're really after.
Research Division</strong> So roughly the international operations core growth rate is similar to the domestic but accelerating? That's a fair statement yes.
And with regards to your question on FFO as well as AFFO you can see that in the press release the one adjustment -- and by the way these 2 particular items are pretty well thought through and defined from NAREIT.
So we're really just conforming with the kind of the NAREIT definitions.
But in FFO what we're really adding back is that cash tax component if you will as well as the real estate-related depreciation amortization which again is a defined component within the NAREIT index for FFO.
And then going for AFFO we have talked about it in terms of being very similar to our recurring free cash flow.
The main difference between the 2 is how we're considering the redevelopment CapEx or recurring free cash flow we're deducting it for AFFO or not.
So you can see that the capital improvements capital expenditures and corporate capital expenditures are similar to how we would think of recurring free cash flow but what you don't see in there are those associated with the redevelopment CapEx.
And the additional item there is the non-real estate-related depreciation which is just when you add it to the real estate-related depreciation you come up with 100% of the depreciation amortization expense.
So hopefully it's pretty well defined there.
We've given a fair amount of breakout relative to -- we always do straight-line revenue and expense but hopefully gave a fair amount of details so that people can reconcile between the 2.
But as I said they're aligned identically really to the definitions that NAREIT has outlined.
Research Division</strong> And Tom if I could just a quick follow-up on that would be is this quarter as we look at this kind of corporate CapEx as a percentage of total CapEx and then real estate depreciation as a percentage of total depreciation is this a typical quarter? Should we be looking at kind of the year-to-date as we try to think about next year's calculations? No I think it's a pretty typical quarter.
As we've mentioned before David the redev and capital is up a little bit this year just because of some of the things that we're doing relative to a project out in the U.S.
tower business and what we're doing relative to LTE and DAS.
IT -- our IT group might be slightly higher just because -- on the capital side because -- corporate capital side because we're deploying Oracle now for example in many of our new markets.
So that may be a bit high and so you might be able to bring that one down a bit going forward.
But I think generally speaking it's pretty typical quarter.
Yes and that's validate our -- or you could get a little bit more detail on Page 13 of the press release guys.
So 2010 capital improvements which is maintenance CapEx typically defined the last year was about $9 million in the quarter.
It's about $19 million this year.
So we did have that one project in there that made up almost all that difference.
That won't be happening past the middle of next year.
And as Tom said corporate CapEx which for the most part is IT related for us is up $1.5 million from last year's quarter.
So exactly what you were describing Tom but the numbers are available to you guys in the press release.
Your last question will be coming from the line of Clay Moran with Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes so there's the potential for sizable portfolios to come to market domestically say over the next 6 to 12 months.
I'm just wondering how you view domestic versus international expansion today and how you sort of look at your portfolio with 50% of your towers internationally.
And in particular just wondering is there further benefit to scale domestically? And what's your perspective on the revenue share model? Sure Clay it's Jim.
The great thing about our 5-year investment and putting really senior and capable business development teams around the world is that we can confidently bid on large or small portfolios or new product lines anywhere in the world and right at the top of the priority list would be a domestic acquisition opportunity.
So we would treat that exactly along the lines that I talked about in my prepared remarks the modeling approach that we take.
We would match that up against all the other opportunities we have and our hurdle rates and we'd go ahead and go forward with that if it became available at the right price and the performance in the asset was there in our view.
So it would certainly be something we'd be interested in.
But the great thing is even if that doesn't happen next year and if the U.S.
acquisition opportunity doesn't come to market we'll have plenty of chances in other places and along other product lines.
Did that cover it for you? Okay.
Good.
All right.
Tom you want to wrap it up? Yes thank you very much everybody for listening this morning.
As I said I think we had a terrific quarter.
We're working hard for you finishing out the year and position us well for 2012 and we look forward to sharing some of our thoughts on that in February of next year.
Thanks very much.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brooke and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower Full Year Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Leah Stearns Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Stearns you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's Fourth Quarter 2011 and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investors tab of our website www.americantower.com.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows: First I will provide a brief overview of our fourth quarter and full year results.
Then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President CFO and Treasurer will review our financial and operational performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 as well as our outlook for 2012.
Finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we'll open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2012 outlook and future operating performance our pending acquisition and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2011 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for over 98% of our total revenues which were generated from leasing income-producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 19.5% to nearly $641 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 17.3% to approximately $429 million.
Operating income increased 21.8% to approximately $248 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $201 million or $0.51 per basic and diluted common share.
Please note that our tax provision for the quarter reflects the positive net impact of approximately $121 million due to the reversal of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of our REIT conversion.
For the full year 2011 our rental and management business grew 23.2% to nearly $2.4 billion.
Our adjusted EBITDA increased 18.4% to approximately $1.6 billion and operating income increased 17.3% to approximately $920 million.
Finally net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $393 million or $0.99 per basic and $0.98 per diluted common share.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that our business continued to produce solid operational and financial results during the fourth quarter building on our performance from the first 3 quarters of the year.
These operating results exceeded the midpoint of our latest outlook for the full year 2011 and have positioned us well for 2012.
What I'd like to do this morning is first discuss our fourth quarter results then full year 2011 and finally conclude with a discussion of our current expectations for 2012.
If you'll please turn to Slide 5.
You will see that for the fourth quarter our total rental and management reported revenue increased by 19.5% to $641 million or 17.3% when you exclude the impact of our international segments pass-through revenues.
This increase in pass-through revenue was attributable to the more than 11 000 new sites we have constructed or acquired in our international markets since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2010.
In addition on a core basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations noncash straight-line lease accounting and significant onetime items our consolidated rental revenue growth was 23%.
Of this 23% core growth over 9% was attributable to organic growth with the balance attributable to growth from new sites.
The key drivers of our consolidated organic growth in the quarter include new business commitments in the U.S.
with AT&amp;T and Verizon's LTE network deployments continuing to drive the majority of our U.S.
leasing volume in the quarter.
In addition we experienced similar demand trends in our international markets.
In Latin America for example we are seeing sustained new business momentum as customers continue to roll out 3G services a newly acquired spectrum.
In our other foreign markets we continue to see leasing growth as carriers invest in their 2G and 3G networks.
Our revenue growth from new sites reflects the impact of our acquisition of construction of over 12 000 sites globally since the beginning of the fourth quarter of last year.
Over 90% of these new sites are located in our international markets where we have continued to focus on diversifying our portfolio across the 3 regions of Latin America Asia and EMEA.
Turning to Slide 6.
During the fourth quarter our domestic rental and management segment generated results right in line with our expectations.
Reported revenue growth was primarily driven by an increase in cash leasing revenue from our legacy towers increased straight-line revenue as a result of our contract extension with Sprint and our recent acquisition of complementary property interest.
This growth was partially offset by the non-recurrence of a significant onetime revenue item from the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the quarter our domestic rental and management segment reported revenue grew 10.6% to nearly $465 million and our domestic segment core revenue growth was 10.9%.
During the quarter our domestic core organic growth was over 8% which reflects the new leasing activity in the U.S.
As I mentioned previously this activity has been primarily generated by 2 of our largest customers as they continue to focus on deploying initial coverage for their 4G LTE networks nationwide.
The remainder of our core growth was generated from the 850 sites we've acquired or constructed since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2010 in addition to our newly acquired land interest.
For the fourth quarter our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased nearly $38 million or approximately 11.3% which reflects a year-over-year conversion rate of about 85%.
Domestic gross margin for the quarter was boosted slightly by the straight-line benefit from the lease extensions we signed during the quarter.
As a result of our growth in gross margin and a modest increase in domestic SG&amp;A expenses period-over-period operating profit grew 11.9% to almost $353 million which reflects an operating profit conversion rate of nearly 85%.
Turning to Slide 7.
Since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2010 we have continued to make significant investments in our international rental and management segment adding over 11 000 communication sites to our portfolio including over 5 400 sites added during this past quarter.
As a result our international rental and management segment reported revenue has increased approximately 52% to $176 million and now accounts for 27% of our total rental and management revenues.
Core revenue growth was over 64%.
In addition as we add new assets to our international portfolio our pass-through revenue continues to increase as we share a portion of our operating costs with our customers.
During the fourth quarter our international pass-through revenue was over $49 million which reflects an increase of approximately $17 million from the year-ago period.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenue growth in our International segment would have been about 51%.
In 2011 as expected organic leasing demand in our international markets was well above 2010 levels as our customers in Latin America began deploying recently awarded spectrum while our customers in India continue to focus on adding capacity and coverage to their initial voice networks.
In addition we're seeing solid leasing demand in our African markets as we continue to promote the colocation model in that region and work with partners such as MTN Vodafone and Cell C.
From a reported gross margin perspective our international rental and management segment increased 45% year-over-year to almost $114 million reflecting a 59% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenues our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate was 90% and 83% respectively.
Further our international rental and management SG&amp;A expense increased approximately $7.6 million from the fourth quarter of 2010.
This increase is almost entirely attributable to costs associated with establishing our presence in our new markets as well as investing in scaling our legacy operations to support our long-term growth.
As a result of our international rental and management segment gross margin growth offset by our investments in overhead to support our growth our international segment operating profit increased 43% to roughly $92 million.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our reported and adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the fourth quarter of 2010 was 17.3% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter at 18.2%.
As we've communicated previously throughout 2011 we have been focused on 2 key initiatives which have resulted in lower than historical levels of adjusted EBITDA margin and conversion rates.
We view these initiatives which include our international expansion as well as regionalization of certain overhead functions as investments which will allow us to support continued levels of growth in the future.
During the quarter we increased adjusted EBITDA by $63 million.
Driving this increase was a $106 million increase in total revenue of which approximately $17 million was attributable to an increase in pass-through revenue.
Offsetting the revenue increase was an increase in direct expenses and excluding stock-based compensation expense was $32 million of which $17 million was attributable to the increase in pass-through costs.
In addition nearly $9 million of the increase was attributable to direct expenses in our new markets.
Finally SG&amp;A excluding stock-based compensation expense increased $10 million from the year-ago period with virtually all of the increase attributable to the new market for regionalization costs.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 66%.
And excluding the impact of pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin was about 71%.
In connection with our conversion to a REIT last quarter we introduced AFFO or adjusted funds from operations as a key metric that we will be disclosing going forward.
We believe it is a relevant measure of the recurring cash flow generation of our business and is similar to the recurring free cash flow metric that many of you are all familiar with.
In addition similar to our core revenue and core adjusted EBITDA definitions we will provide core AFFO defined as AFFO excluding the impact of currency and significant onetime items.
For a full reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA and AFFO to net income please reference the presentation reconciliations which are available on our website.
During the quarter on a pro forma basis pro forma AFFO increased by $38.4 million or 16% relative to pro forma AFFO in 2010.
And pro forma core AFFO increased by approximately 18.8%.
Now moving on to Page 9 and discussing our full year 2011 results the performance of our rental and management business both in our domestic and international segments was slightly ahead of our plan.
Our domestic rental and management segment reported revenue grew 11.4% to over $1.74 billion and our domestic segment core revenue growth was 10.6%.
As mentioned previously we continued to see substantial leasing demand in the U.S.
in 2011 particularly from AT&amp;T and Verizon which along with the over 450 communication sites and over 1 700 third-party property interest we added during the year led to these growth rates.
Similarly as a result of the over 10 000 sites we have added to our international portfolio over the last year and increasing levels of organic new business our international rental and management segment reported revenue has increased approximately 73% to $642 million with nearly 72% core revenue growth for the full year.
These growth metrics include the impacts of pass-through revenue which continues to increase as we add new assets and regions where we share some of our operating costs with our customers.
In 2011 our international pass-through revenue was $176 million and reflects an increase of approximately $76 million from 2010.
Excluding the impacts of pass-through revenue growth in our international segment would have been nearly 72%.
On a consolidated basis in 2011 our rental and management segment revenue grew approximately 23% to a reported $2.39 billion with core revenue growth at 22.6%.
Turning to Slide 10.
For the full year 2011 our adjusted EBITDA growth relative to 2010 was about 18.4% with our core adjusted EBITDA growth for the year at 16.4%.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin was about 65.3% and adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was 54%.
As mentioned previously there were several items during the year that affected our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate and margin including the impact of pass-through revenue and expense our new market expansion and our regionalization investments.
Excluding the impact of just pass-through our adjusted EBITDA margin was 70%.
In addition on a pro forma basis 2011 AFFO increased by $114.3 million or 12% relative to pro forma AFFO in 2010.
And pro forma core AFFO growth was about 10.9%.
As outlined on Slide 11 we deployed over $520 million via our capital expenditure program in 2011 including $126 million in the fourth quarter.
We spent $75 million on discretionary capital projects in the quarter and about $297 million for the full year.
These expenditures include the costs associated with the completion of the construction of nearly 1 850 sites including more than 250 sites in the U.S.
and nearly 1 600 sites internationally.
The majority of our international new tower build were in India where we led a build-to-suit project for both Reliance and Vodafone.
The remainder of our new sites were built primarily in Mexico Brazil and Chile.
In addition we completed the installation of approximately 700 shared generators during 2011.
We continue to grow our discretionary land purchase program in the U.S.
securing additional interest under our existing tower sites.
During 2011 we invested about $91 million to purchase land under our existing sites through our capital expenditure program.
In addition we spent nearly $390 million and assumed about $200 million in debt to acquire property interest which included land parcels under our own towers and over 1 700 land parcels under third-party sites.
As a result of these investments we now own nearly 28% of the land interest under our U.S.
sites which is an increase of about 4% from last year.
Our 2011 spending on redevelopment capital expenditures which we incur to accommodate additional tenants on our properties was about $55 million.
Our 2011 redevelopment spending was higher than historical levels for a couple of reasons.
First in the U.S.
we completed the upgrade of our Indoor DAS portfolio in Las Vegas to LTE.
And second we increased the augmentation in our legacy Latin American markets to accommodate the expected additional capacity needs of our customers as new spectrum and technology is being rolled out.
Finally our capital improvements and corporate capital expenditures have increased as a function of our tower portfolio growth in addition to a specific U.S.
maintenance project on our total guide [ph] broadcast towers.
In aggregate these capital expenditures came in at approximately $80 million for the year.
From a capital allocation perspective we spent over $520 million on capital expenditures and over $2.3 billion on acquisitions in 2011.
The acquisitions included 191 communication sites and over 1 700 third-party property interests in the U.S.
and over 8 400 communication sites internationally.
And we also made our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits distribution of approximately $138 million in December.
And finally during the year we spent over $420 million to repurchase nearly 8.1 million shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase programs.
Turning to Slide 12.
Given the significant level of acquisitions we completed in 2011 I'd like to spend a few moments walking through how we expect these acquisitions to financially position us going forward.
As a result of our activity in 2011 we spent a total of about $2.6 billion on assets which on a pro forma annual run-rate basis will generate a total of approximately $340 million in revenues in the first full year in which they are part of our portfolio.
In terms of gross margin commonly referred to in our business as tower cash flow by REIT investors as net operating income we expect these assets to generate approximately $200 million in the first year.
On a consolidated basis this reflects a cash flow multiple of approximately 13x or for those real estate investors who refer to cap rates about 8% in year one.
Given that the majority of these assets we acquire are in our higher growth international markets we would expect strong colocation-driven growth from these assets.
It should bring this multiple below 10x within a couple of years.
We believe these types of results demonstrate our ability to pursue value-creating investments through our capital allocation process.
Moving on to slide 13.
And finally I'd like to begin our 2012 outlook discussion with a discussion of our expectations for rental and management revenue growth.
Please note that these numbers only include sites in our portfolio as of today and do not include any of our pending acquisitions.
On that basis we currently expect that our full year rental and management segment reported revenue will increase from $2.39 billion in 2011 to between $2.67 billion and $2.71 billion in 2012 representing year-over-year growth of over $300 million or nearly 13% at the midpoint and core growth of approximately 16.2% at the midpoint.
The overall increase in total rental and management revenue can be broken down further into a number of discrete items.
First of all over 3.5% of the growth will come from our contractual rent escalations from our existing tenants which represents about $85 million of incremental revenue for 2012.
Second at the midpoint we expect approximately $105 million of our revenue growth will be generated from new business including lease-up and amendment activity on our existing sites.
In addition about $205 million at the midpoint of our revenue will result from the incremental impact of our new sites which we built or acquired since the beginning of 2011.
It includes our expectation that pass-through revenue attributable to our new sites will increase approximately $45 million.
In addition we estimate the churn will be about 1.6% and offset revenue growth by about $35 million.
And finally we estimate that the net impact of our noncore revenue will negatively impact our growth in 2012 by about $60 million which is primarily attributable to the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar.
Within these rental revenue growth numbers we expect our domestic rental and management segment to grow nearly 8% via mostly organic growth and estimate that our international rental and management segment revenue growth will be nearly 27% driven by both organic and new site growth.
I'd like to spend a moment on the key drivers of our new business assumptions for 2012.
First in the U.S.
we expect leasing levels commensurate with 2011.
This reflects consistent activity levels from all of our major customers in the U.S.
and does not include any material leasing activity from Clearwire or T-Mobile.
We are encouraged by the initial indications from these customers.
However consistent with our past practice we will not include any expectations for increased spending levels until we begin to see the activity commence.
In our international markets where we expect double-digit core same tower growth we anticipate strong leasing trends to continue.
In our Latin American markets we expect companies such as Nextel International América Móvil and Telefónica to roll out their recently acquired 3G spectrum.
In India where approximately 90% of our revenue is generated from the large incumbent providers such as Vodafone IDEA and Bharti we expect the market share leaders to continue to pursue investments in their wireless networks.
And finally in Africa we're expecting the solid leasing levels we experienced in 2011 to continue.
As I mentioned earlier we've excluded from our current outlook the impact of our pending acquisitions of about 2 300 sites for an aggregate purchase price of just under $350 million.
We expect these acquisitions to close during the first half of 2012.
The pro forma run rate impact from these sites would be approximately $75 million of rental and management revenue on a full year basis which includes approximately $40 million of pass-through revenue and $25 million of gross margin.
Turning to Slide 14.
We currently expect our reported 2012 adjusted EBITDA to increase about $170 million at the midpoint to between $1.745 billion to $1.785 billion with core growth of 13.8% at the midpoint.
We continue to remain focused on controlling costs in our business and our outlook for adjusted EBITDA reflects a gross margin conversion rate excluding the impact of increases in pass-through revenue of about 80%.
In addition cash SG&amp;A is expected to remain flat at about the 10% level.
As I previously mentioned we've excluded from our current outlook the impact of our pending acquisitions which are expected to close during the first half of 2012.
The pro forma run rate impact to adjusted EBITDA from these sites will contribute approximately $15 million to $20 million on a full year basis.
In addition we're introducing our 2012 outlook for AFFO of $1.167 billion at the midpoint representing growth of nearly $100 million or just over 9%.
On a core basis we expect AFFO to grow by over 13%.
Our outlook for AFFO reflects our growth in adjusted EBITDA and the recent refinancing of our revolving credit facilities.
In addition during 2012 we expect to incur approximately $15 million of startup maintenance costs on certain sites we acquired through our 2 joint ventures which were contemplated in our business cases.
Since these are startup related and not regular ongoing maintenance costs we've identified them as onetime within our core revenue -- within our core growth metric.
Turning to Slide 15.
In 2012 we will continue to pursue a consistent approach to capital allocation.
We expect to continue to deploy our internally generated capital through our annual capital expenditure program and select acquisitions.
We currently plan to deploy between $500 million to $600 million in CapEx during 2012 which includes spending on the construction of between 1 800 and 2 200 new sites.
In addition we currently have just under $350 million committed to fund the acquisition of the approximately 2 300 sites.
Pro forma for these investments we expect to have nearly 50 000 sites by year end.
Finally in 2012 our primary method of returning capital to stockholders will shift to our quarterly dividend which for the full year we expect will be between $0.80 and $0.90 per share or approximately $340 million at the midpoint reflecting an AFFO payout ratio of approximately 29%.
Turning to Slide 16.
I'd like to spend a moment to highlight a few points on our balance sheet.
We ended the fourth quarter of 2011 with the last quarter annualized net leverage ratio of 4x with the increase primarily reflecting the funding of the majority of our fourth quarter acquisitions in mid to late December.
We would expect our net leverage ratio to decline from our current levels in 2012 as a result of the combination of the incremental adjusted EBITDA associated with the new sites we added at the end of 2011 and our organic growth in 2012.
We continue to believe that we maximize the value of our firm by managing our capital structure within our stated target leverage range of 3x to 5x net debt to adjusted EBITDA and expect to continue to manage our capital structure consistent with this strategy.
Subsequent to the end of 2011 we completed the refinancing of our 2011 credit -- 2007 credit facility and term loan which were scheduled to mature in June of 2012.
We used our 2 new revolving credit facilities along with cash on hand to repay in full all amounts outstanding and accrued interest.
As a result we have no material maturities before our securitization in 2014.
In addition we continue to add ample liquidity of approximately $1 billion subsequent to our revolver refinancing which includes the approximately $330 million in cash we had on hand as of December 31.
In summary we have maintained our net leverage in the 3.5x to 4x range over the past 4 years while growing adjusted EBITDA by nearly 50% almost doubling our site portfolio and garnering investment-grade issuer ratings from 2 of the 3 rating agencies.
Our disciplined approach to managing the balance sheet is further evidenced by a lack of near-term maturities.
And we expect we will continue to opportunistically access the debt capital markets to extend our maturities and increase our liquidity.
Turning to Slide 17.
And in conclusion I'd like to spend a few moments recapping our key milestones in 2011 and outline some of our goals for 2012.
In 2011 we continue to invest in our business by adding more than 10 000 sites to our portfolio while entering 2 new markets.
To support this global expansion initiative we invested in hiring teams and deploying common IT systems to run our new market operations committed resources to implement a global ERP system and continue to spend selectively to ensure that we maintain a high level of service for our customers everywhere we operate.
We believe these investments have formed a core level of infrastructure and people to facilitate growth in these markets.
In combination with our additional capital spending during 2011 we invested a total of $2.8 billion into our business in 2011 of which approximately 1/3 was invested in the U.S.
and 2/3 was invested in our international markets.
In the process we've established mutually rewarding partnerships with global telecom companies such as MTN and Telefónica which we believe will continue to help us expand our operations in the future.
And after significant efforts throughout the organization we began operating as a real estate investment trust as of January 1.
We firmly believe this structure is part of our global tax strategy is the best U.S.
tax strategy for our business.
And while 2011 has been a very good year we believe we are well positioned for 2012 as evidenced by the guidance we issued today.
Based upon our customers' public statements we again expect solid leasing trends throughout the business.
And finally we will continue our disciplined approach to investment.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.
Jim? Thanks Tom and good morning and welcome to everyone joining us on the call today.
I'd like to begin by expressing our appreciation to our investors for your continued confidence in our company and to our employees from Boston to Mumbai for delivering the results that Tom just described.
We're also fortunate to have a dynamic and vibrant global customer base.
Several of those have joined us in building extensive and growing partnerships as you just heard.
This morning I'll be taking a few moments to update you on the 3 strategic pillars of American Tower.
I introduced these 3 strategic pillars to you nearly 10 years ago and we have been pursuing them diligently ever since.
The first pillar is to focus on achieving meaningful scale and leasing communication site real estate.
The second pillar is to bring operational excellence to our leasing business to maximize return on investment.
And the third is to maintain a strong balance sheet to support our capital allocation priorities through all phases of the business cycle.
These 3 strategic pillars have held us in good stead for the better part of a decade and we plan to keep advancing them for years to come.
Hopefully you can appreciate the continuity of our strategic banking in the 2012 guidance that Tom just laid out.
In the U.S.
we expect ongoing strong performance from our nearly 22 000 communication sites augmented by the approximately 1 700 third-party property interests that we acquired last year.
Internationally we will achieve outsized growth due to the combination of relatively high lease upgrades and fast-growing wireless markets and a full year contribution from the over 10 000 sites that we built or acquired in 2011.
Plus an additional 2 300 international sites that we've already agreed to purchase and plan to close in 2012 but are not yet included in the guidance.
Our expectations also indicate that we can set the foundation for robust future growth for many years while maintaining our historically high standards of operating leverage.
For example in spite of adding those 10 000 new international sites last year we expect to maintain adjusted EBITDA margins for 2012 at 70% excluding the 0 margin pass-through expenses which is consistent at 70% year-over-year.
Moreover having put the organizational structure in place to operate at a truly global level and I think we're the only tower company that can say that we've also built up on organic Outdoor DAS and shared generator product line internally.
Our guidance shows that SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue in spite of these activities will be flat as you heard from Tom earlier at approximately 10% of revenue in 2012.
In addition we're staying true to our financial policies in 2012 planning to maintain our net leverage ratios squarely within the 3x to 5x range terming out our existing credit facilities expanding our borrowing capacity by entering into new credit facilities and minimizing cash tax exposure through our REIT conversion.
While at the same time continuing our commitment of returning cash to shareholders with our annual redistribution which we anticipate will be between $0.80 and $0.90 per share.
But these 2012 objectives are just the beginning.
Those of you who have followed the company for some time know that we use a multiyear planning horizon.
So I'll spend my remaining time with you today to summarize our mid- to long-term thinking for each of our 3 strategic pillars.
As to achieving meaningful scale in wireless communications real estate we plan to maintain an active business development initiative both domestically and abroad using our disciplined investment approach.
Back in 2007 we set out internally to achieve a goal of doubling our site count while simultaneously doubling adjusted EBITDA.
We began 2007 with approximately 22 400 sites in 3 countries.
And we expect by the end of 2012 as you heard to have approximately 50 000 sites in 10 countries which will more than double our site count over that 5-year period.
We now have a globally deployed and experienced management team and the financial strength to continue on this path.
But as before we'll only pursue assets that meet our risk-adjusted return hurdles.
In the U.S.
we seek to position American Tower to meet future customer demand as carriers' technologies and deployment patterns evolve.
For example we still believe based on direct interactions with many of our major customers that tower-based macro sites will continue to be the primary choice for wide area network development into the foreseeable future with urban rooftops distributed antenna systems and Wi-Fi offloads serving as complementary solutions.
As a result we expect to continue to direct the bulk of our CapEx and acquisition spending to tower-based real estate.
And we will organically and efficiently develop a full range of capabilities to offer and deliver a complete suite of complementary solutions when needed by our customers using our well-established Indoor DAS business which we think is the industry leader as the core of that capability.
Outside the U.S.
we've established focus areas for future investment based on our successful introduction of the commercial leasing business model into various countries especially when we have done it with other multinational leaders in the wireless communication industry.
Given our understanding of international markets today I expect that much of our future construction and acquisition investments outside the United States will be in countries where we currently operate.
We will be open to new countries as well particularly in our established regions of Asia Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America.
Moreover we have already developed strategic partnerships or acquired assets from Telefónica and MTN in multiple countries and at least in one country with Millicom and Cell C among others.
We'll seek to extend those partnerships to additional markets as well.
A current example of our success in both those dimensions is the acquisition of approximately 2 500 towers in our legacy market Mexico from Telefónica.
This acquisition complements deals that we have done with this carrier in Colombia Chile and Peru already.
Similarly we are now partnered with MTN in both Ghana and Uganda.
The pacing of our future asset expansion efforts will continue to be guided by the quality and growth prospects of the properties available as compared to the asking price of those properties.
We may well continue to say no to more opportunities than we end up accepting.
It is to some note that since the beginning of 2007 concurrent with doubling our site count and based on our operational discipline American Tower also doubled adjusted EBITDA from $868 million in 2007 to $1.77 billion based on our outlook for 2012.
This type of performance in expanding operating profit is the result of our commitment to bringing operational best practices and discipline to the management of our real estate assets in all of our markets worldwide.
And we'll remain committed to that operational discipline.
At the moment as Tom mentioned we're installing standard IT systems and business processes globally based on the intellectual property that we have developed over the past decade in the U.S.
and Latin America.
And which has been further enhanced by learnings in our new markets as well.
Each of our markets also uses 4 overarching management programs in a consistent and thorough manner.
These are account management review process for leadership development our investment committee process to evaluate and acquire assets our Six Sigma-based process excellence program for our operational improvement and finally our annual performance and operational review process for performance monetary and management at all levels of the organization.
The combined purpose of these 4 programs is to accelerate the return on investment of each and every one of our markets and acquisitions and product lines.
As to our third strategic pillar maintaining a strong financial position Tom and I are dedicated to implementing the optimal balance for capital allocation within our target to deleverage range.
As this business generates significant cash and additional financing capacity we plan to continue to allocate capital along the same priorities that have served our company so well over the past few years.
With experience and skilled management teams in all 4 of our operating regions we have very high confidence in their recommendations for construction augmentation and securing property interest.
Thus making our ongoing investments in existing markets via our capital expenditure program our highest cash allocation priority after the required dividend of course.
Furthermore our M&amp;A program which is recently executed essentially managed by our corporate executive team through the investment committee process remains our next priority for capital allocation.
And in the event the company is in a position of excess cash due to a relative lack of contemporary M&amp;A opportunities that meet our investment criteria we can still elect to return additional cash to shareholders via our existing stock repurchase program.
In sum the goals of our capital allocation program are and will be to determine and implement the optimal mix of distributing cash to shareholders and reinvesting in the business.
That in our view will maximize the long-term value of the company to you our shareholders.
So thanks again for joining us on the call today.
And Tom and I will be happy to take your questions now.
Operator go ahead and open up the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could just talk about the acquisition environment.
You've obviously taken your leverage up to 4x it will come down over time but there's been a lot of speculation that Deutsche Telekom might also put the U.S.
towers on the block again.
What's your interest in your capacity to do something like that? And you did say that I think that Clearwire and T-Mobile are not in your numbers.
But clearly both of them are now very explicit about their build plans for this year.
So given your conversations do you think that's something we'll start to see in Q3 or Q4 coming into your numbers? Sure Simon.
Thanks for the questions there.
First of all in the acquisition environment we're positioned as I said both operationally and financially to look at every asset opportunity that comes available and that would include T-Mobile.
In that case it's a fairly sizable portfolio and we would reserve the right to potentially use a mix of cash and stock if we were to go forward with something like that.
But again we're going to use the same disciplined approach we always have.
And as I've said in the past that we've said no to more deals than we've actually said yes to.
And we'll apply that same discipline if the T-Mobile towers come up.
Secondly with respect to T-Mobile we are pleased to see in their earnings release just last night that Deutsche Telekom indicated a formal commitment to deploy LTE in the U.S.
But as Tom said and has been our practice we haven't included any impact from that in our guidance.
And we'll introduce it when and if we have a clear picture of T-Mobile's rollout schedule and site configuration later sometime this year.
With respect to Clearwire same story.
We don't have a plan that we're working through with them at the detail level yet.
And if we do we'll include that in the guidance and we'll let you know.
Your next question comes from David Barden with Bank of America.
Your next question comes from Batya Levi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that you expect the organic tower revenue growth to be about 8% this year.
Can you talk a little bit about how we should think about the trajectory into the year? Do you expect it to be more streamlined or more back-end loaded like we have seen in '11? Yes.
Actually Batya I mean in the quarter as we talked about we're kind of in the 8% to 9% from existing sites revenue from existing sites.
2011 was probably around the 9% level.
And in 2012 we're kind of in that 7-plus percent range.
I would expect that to be pretty evenly distributed throughout the year kind of on a 50-50 basis if you will from a commence basis.
And as Jim just indicated on the last question I mean to the extent that there is some new business activity coming in from Clearwire or T-Mobile I would expect that to be back half end loaded.
So that could impact the trajectory if you will going into 2013.
Your next question comes from David Barden with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> If I could maybe 2.
First just Tom for you to clarify in the CapEx outlook you've got about $260 million to $330 million of discretionary capital projects and you're expecting to build about 1 800 to 2 200 new sites.
I know you excluded the yet-to-be-closed acquisitions from guidance.
Are those new tower build expectations that are in the CapEx guidance in there or...
They are Dave.
So the capital is in the plan for 2012 and the expected benefit from those towers is also in the plan.
And they are pretty spread out throughout -- pretty evenly spread out throughout the year.
As opposed to the 2 300 sites that we have yet to close we identified what the revenue on a full year basis would look like as well as the adjusted EBITDA.
But those are not included in our guidance.
And when we in fact close those and have certainty as to the timing and what the impact will be for the year then we would as we've done in the past include them in our guidance going forward.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then Jim more on the strategy side.
Obviously we've seen a couple deals that have fairly large DAS components to them from some of your tower peers.
It seems like there's an expectation that as LTE builds out that there's going to be an increasing focus on smaller cell sites disproportionately.
I know you mentioned in your prepared remarks that there's an expectation that macro sites are really going to be the focus going forward.
Could you kind of elaborate a little bit how you see network architectures in your position in macro versus DAS in the market? Sure Dave.
I mean you have to look at the geography and the topology of the overall network right? So again the majority -- and this is our customers speaking to us as we understand it the majority of that topology is going to be covered by the macro site network including rooftops right.
And the complement to the areas where the towers or the rooftops can't quite reach can be DAS systems indoor or outdoor by the way.
And we at American Tower are in the business of having a complete what we call suite of solutions for the customer.
So we feel really comfortable right now with what we've done developing that suite which is the tower position we have with the classic towers we've got the leading Indoor DAS business in the country.
And we've also got an organically developed and efficiently developed I would say Outdoor DAS capacity that we're able to branch right off from the indoor team.
So we can offer all those solutions and we have put in Outdoor DAS systems selectively and we're actively offering it.
We've got 270 DAS systems up and running today in 3 countries actually.
And still our customers are telling us it's a complementary solution.
Your next question comes from Jason Armstrong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First maybe just on REIT benchmarks that you've been excluded from some of the more common REIT benchmarks.
How are you -- or what are you hearing as far as the reasons for exclusion? And are there things you've been directed to do whether it's higher land ownership or something else that might drive some sort of difference in your business activity over the course of the year? And then second question just on India there's been news out recently on potential foreign ownership caps for tower companies.
Just how you're thinking about how real this ultimately is and if it is real what the solution might be.
Yes.
Sure Jason.
I mean from a REIT perspective as we've stated all along the reason we're becoming a REIT it's the best global tax strategy to us on the planet for us in the United States.
And relative to all of the REIT index inclusions I know there's been a lot of speculation over the past 6 to 9 months as we've embarked on this process of what indexes would we be in.
And it's very difficult to kind of read if you will the indexes given some of the -- or lack of transparency that they may have in their definitions.
I mean from our perspective 97% 98% of our revenues is real estate-related.
And if you look at the benchmark and what's in there kind of white papers of what would be required to be included and I think we fit right down the middle.
I have been told by some that it's our sheer size that has actually kept us out of some of the indexes.
And I don't know if that's the case entirely but it seems to be kind of a common theme that I've heard of.
But again we continue to embark on this strategy that Jim just laid down.
And we think that regardless of whether we're in one index or another there's good value that can be created in our business.
Jason it's Jim.
Regarding India earlier this morning I just spoke to our India leader for an update.
And essentially with the ownership task that decision has been put on hold as it's called in India.
Which means that higher level government officials have deferred any discussion of this particular topic for sometime in the future.
And as a result I think this is unlikely to ultimately pass and won't be any kind of a near-term issue for American Tower.
Your next question comes from Michael Rollins with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First as you're looking at the pace of international acquisitions and where you've been doing them do you see it getting tougher to get sizable deals done? And I guess the other part of that is is it tougher to get sizable deals done in the countries that you really want to expand in? And then if I could just ask a question about the guidance.
So if I looked at the EBITDA growth of like $170 million I think was the midpoint.
You multiply that by like 3x the leverage and you add that to the AFFO guidance at the midpoint you get about $1.7 billion.
But on that slide I think it was 15.
If I'm adding up the piece parts correctly there's only about $1.2 billion of expected capital allocation.
So if there's some room in that Slide 15 in terms of the dollars of capital allocation even removing the idea of like an outsized deal coming around like a national tower portfolio or something like that but just looking at sort of the basic blocking and tackling of what you do is there some more room in that pie chart to get a little bit bigger as the year unfolds? Michael maybe I'll take the first one and Jim can then come back on the other one.
I mean that chart was not meant to be what our total available capital would be to be able to spend on items if you will or allocate during 2012.
It was really just meant to represent what we know today in terms of the major allocation elements for 2012.
So don't think of that pie as the total cash available to reinvest back into our business to stay within our stated leverage ranges.
And that takes us right to the pace of opportunities Mike.
And frankly it takes 2 or 3 years to be in region to get credibility with the counterparties in the countries that you want to deal with.
And so we paid our dues in that way in India.
We paid our dues in that way in Latin America for 10 years.
And we paid our dues for 3 or 4 years in EMEA and specifically in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Getting to know them get credibility with these customers who then in turn are willing to do large transactions with you which we have absolutely just completed a couple of what I would consider top-shelf deals with some really attractive carriers.
2 500 towers in Mexico as I said with Telefónica.
We've just recently agreed to do a joint venture with Millicom.
Again 2 000 towers plus in Colombia which we think is a very attractive place.
Our Ghana operation that we started with MTN I'm very optimistic about because of the leasing opportunity and the strength of MTN's position there as far as their portfolio.
And we went ahead and expanded that partnership to Uganda already.
So we feel that we're getting the deals we want with the counterparties that we like the best in the countries that we're targeting.
It takes time and you have to be deliberate and disciplined about it.
But we don't necessarily see a dearth of opportunities but we're going to keep that discipline and only take the ones we really think are right.
Research Division</strong> And Tom just to follow-up to figure out -- if investors want to figure out the size of the pie for 2012 or any given year is that the right logic stream to apply? You take your target leverage ratio range wherever it should fall times the EBITDA growth plus the AFFO as a starting point for the base case of cash available to invest or distribute to shareholders over the course of the year? Yes Michael.
I think that's a very good way of doing it.
Your next question comes from Lukas Hartwich with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim this is a question for you.
As of today American Tower has something like 2.5 tenants per tower in the U.S.
and something like 1.5 tenants per tower internationally.
I'm just curious what you think those numbers will eventually stabilize at and kind of what kind of time frame do you think that'll play out? Lukas stabilization isn't something we've seen yet in wireless infrastructure real estate frankly.
These towers if they're well located and they have the capacity in the tower and on the ground can be up to 7 8 9 customers per tower.
Now that's not the endpoint for the whole portfolio But there really isn't necessarily a limitation that you can identify as sort of an asymptotic ending to the growth curve.
So our goal is to keep the pacing going of what we call lease-up and add incremental tenants and amendments to the towers at the most robust rate we can.
And again I don't think there's a asymptotic end stage to the growth rate in any of the countries.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
There may not be like an endpoint so to speak but is there a target that you're kind of targeting over let's say the next 5 years or something that? Well we have a business model for each and every acquisition or build that we do.
And specific to individual towers what we do Lukas briefly is we get an understanding of who's on the tower when we build or buy it.
So some of their launch tenants or the base tenants we have.
And then we look at how many licenses are in the area that aren't on the tower and how strong is the signal strength if there is any signal at all with those other licensees.
And so as licensees have to have denser networks they may end up on our tower some day.
As the original customers need more equipment there'll be amendments.
And as new licenses get distributed from the governments you're going to have new entrants and they're going to need space too.
So we have assumptions in our business models on all those dimensions and they're very specific in some cases by individual tower.
And that's how we run the business.
So for us the annual guidance is really the best way to look at the company and saying okay given this time frame of say 2012 all those assumptions rolled across 45 000 towers gives us the guidance that Tom laid out.
And next year we'll try to maximize it again.
And the year after that we'll try to maximize it again.
But a lot of those parts are moving.
The technology is moving.
The signal density requirements are moving.
The number of iPads and iPhones is moving in each market and the number of licenses is often moving.
So these are things that we need to refresh every year for you and we do.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> So listen a lot of my questions have been asked and answered but maybe we could focus a little bit on some of the spectrum legislation that came out at the end of last week.
And in particular there was an interesting provision regarding the ability of tower operators to add incremental equipment to existing sites kind of preventing states and municipalities maybe from slowing down that process.
And I was wondering how you felt that that could impact your business and whether it would change the company's perspective on say building new sites versus acquiring new sites in the U.S.
Jonathan the ability to forego zoning to colocate or augment a customer's existing space on the tower was our #1 regulatory priority for say 3 or 4 years.
And I'm really proud of PCIA which is our industry association and Steve Marshall who's our representative on there to help get that included in the legislation.
Having said that it's going to accelerate our ability to colocate on our existing sites.
That will be a good thing.
Time lines will be shorter.
Amendments will come on quicker.
And so that will be therapeutic to our growth rate as will it be therapeutic to other tower companies' growth prospects.
It's not going to change our capital allocation process though.
If we see in practice that there's acceleration of colos and amendments which we fully expect from this will weave that into both acquisition and new build decisions and we'll treat them similarly with those new assumptions.
And our last question comes from Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Richard for Phil.
I just wanted to follow-up on that with the legislation passing in kind of seeing a long potential long-term potential of a public safety network.
What are you hearing? And could we actually start seeing something in the next few years? Well advocating the public safety network was our second highest regulatory priority over the last few years.
And again with the joint effort with the other tower companies in our association hopefully we're a little bit helpful in getting that approved.
That's a long-term project however and probably will not have immediate impact on 2012.
But if something happens quickly we'll again update you over the course of the year.
But it indeed could be another national network.
It'll probably be done in I would expect in partnership with some existing wireless carrier so it would be efficiently rolled out on behalf of the government and we'll be fully participating in that when it happens.
I will now turn it back to the presenters for closing remarks.
That's great everybody.
We appreciate all of your attention.
If you have any follow-on questions please give Leah and/or I and her team a call.
We will obviously be here all day and we really appreciate your attention.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]  I will now turn the conference over to Leah Stearns Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Christie and good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our first quarter results.
Then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President CFO and Treasurer will review our financial and operational performance for the first quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2012.
And finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2012 outlook and future operating performance our pending acquisition and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our first quarter 2012 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for over 98% of our total revenue which were generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment-grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 25.1% to nearly $684 million from the first quarter of 2011.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 22.7% to approximately $463 million.
Operating income increased 25.7% to approximately $274 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $221 million or $0.56 per basic and diluted common share.
The increase in our net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was primarily related to our strong operating performance for the quarter a $55 million gain from foreign currency and a lower tax provision as a result of our REIT conversion.
For the quarter our effective tax rate or ETR was approximately 11.5% and we continue to expect that our ETR for the full year will be around 8.5%.
The variance between our ETR for the quarter and our full year expectations primarily relate to certain discrete items including our foreign currency gain.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that we had a solid start to 2012 which has enabled us to raise our outlook for the full year.
This morning I'll start with an overview of our first quarter financial and operational results and then I'll conclude with a discussion of our updated expectations for the full year.
If you'll please turn to Slide 5 you'll see that for the first quarter our total rental and management revenue increased by just over 25% to $684 million.
On a core basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations noncash straight-line lease accounting and significant one-time items our consolidated rental and management revenue growth was over 24%.
Of this core growth nearly 8.5% was organic with the balance attributable to growth from new sites.
Included in this new site growth is the impact of the increase in pass-through revenues attributable to the nearly 11 400 new sites we have constructed or acquired in our International segment since the beginning of the first quarter of 2011.
Excluding pass-through revenues our rental and management revenue growth was nearly 24%.
Our revenue growth from legacy assets across our global footprint reflects strong new leasing activity which we believe will continue as we move through the year.
During the quarter 60% of signed new business was attributable to new leases with the balance coming from amendments and we expect similar levels of new lease activity going forward.
In the U.S.
the key drivers of our organic revenue growth in the quarter were attributable to AT&amp;T and Verizon's LTE network deployments Sprint's activity under our recently signed MLA as well as continued new business from the regional carriers and a host of other companies.
Additionally in the quarter our domestic segment benefited from $15.6 million of revenue related to 2 nonrecurring items which I will further discuss in a moment.
In our international markets we continue to see our customers actively deploying their voice and initial data networks.
Our Latin America markets exceeded our expectations virtually across the board.
This new business momentum was driven by customers such as Nextel International and Telefónica who are continuing to build out their 3G networks in Brazil and Mexico and UNE in Colombia who is currently building out the region's first LTE network.
Our African markets also outpaced expectations for the quarter as new business commitments with our major customers in South Africa like Vodafone and MTN were stronger than anticipated.
We expect these new business trends to continue as our customers invest in their networks to build out the recently acquired spectrum.
In India where approximately 90% of our revenue was generated from the large incumbent providers like Vodafone IDEA and Bharti we expect the market share leaders to continue to pursue investments in their wireless networks.
Bharti for example has already launched 4G services in India and we expect wireless data to become an increasingly important part of the wireless market in India going forward.
Our overall revenue growth from new sites reflects the impact of our acquisition or construction of nearly 11 900 sites globally since the beginning of the first quarter of last year.
Over 95% of these new sites are located in our international markets where we have continued to focus on diversifying our global portfolio.
Turning to Slide 6.
During the first quarter our domestic rental and management segment exceeded our expectations with reported revenue growth primarily driven by an increase in cash leasing revenue from our legacy towers and the impact of 2 one-time revenue items.
Our domestic rental and management segment reported revenue grew nearly 17% to approximately $487 million and our domestic segment core revenue growth was over 11%.
I'd like to spend a moment to discuss the one-time revenue items included in our domestic results.
One the first one was approximately $6 million as a result of a tenant billing settlement and the second one about $10 million as a result of a lease termination settlement.
The lease termination settlement relates to an outdoor distributing antenna system network which we built in 2010 for a cable provider.
The cable provider had acquired the spectrum committed the capital and deployed an initial network but ultimately decided not to launch service.
While we've recovered nearly the full construction cost of the network because of the limited cash flows associated with the network and in accordance with GAAP we also recorded an impairment of approximately $11 million during the quarter.
However we do intend on continuing to actively market the network to seek additional lease up on the property.
During the quarter our domestic core rental and management segment organic revenue growth was approximately 8.5% which reflects new cash lease revenue in the U.S.
As I mentioned previously this leasing activity has been primarily generated by 2 of our largest customers as they continue to focus on deploying initial coverage for their 4G LTE networks nationwide as well as smaller contributions from our other carriers.
The remainder of our core growth or 3.1% was generated from the over 530 sites we've acquired or constructed since the beginning of the first quarter of 2011 in addition to our acquired land interest portfolio.
Also in the quarter our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased approximately $60 million or nearly 18% which reflects a year-over-year conversion rate of about 86%.
As a result of our growth in gross margin operating profit increased over 18% to almost $375 million.
Turning to Slide 7.
Since the beginning of the first quarter of 2011 we have continued to make significant investments in our international rental and management segment adding nearly 11 400 communication sites to our portfolio.
This includes the first quarter construction of nearly 600 sites and the acquisition of 800 sites in Brazil which we closed at the end of the quarter.
As a result our international rental and management segment reported revenue has increased approximately 53% to $197 million reflecting core growth of over 65%.
During the quarter our international operations accounted for 29% of our total rental and management revenues.
As we add to our international portfolio our pass-through revenue continues to increase as we share a portion of our operating cost with our customers.
During the first quarter our international pass-through revenue was nearly $49 million which reflects an increase of over $15 million from the year-ago period.
Excluding pass-through revenue growth in our international segment would have been nearly 55%.
The strong performance of our international operations was driven by our core organic revenue growth which was over 9% in the quarter.
From a reported gross margin perspective our international rental and management segment increased nearly 48% year-over-year to $130 million reflecting a 62% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenue our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate was 88% and 80% respectively.
Further our international rental and management segment SG&amp;A expense increased approximately $6.4 million from the first quarter of 2011.
The majority of this increase was attributable to cost associated with establishing our presence in our new markets including Uganda as well as investing and scaling our legacy operations to support our ongoing growth.
As a result of our international rental and management segment gross margin growth our international segment operating profit increased almost 51% to roughly $106 million.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the first quarter of 2011 was nearly 23% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter of 22.5%.
We increased adjusted EBITDA by $85 million primarily as a result of the $134 million increase in total revenue of which approximately $15 million was attributable to the increase in international pass-through revenue related to the addition of new sites.
Offsetting the revenue increase was an increase in direct expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense of $35 million of which the $15 million was the corresponding increased international pass-through cost and nearly $5 million of the direct expense increase was attributable to our African markets which we were just launching in early 2011.
Finally SG&amp;A excluding stock-based compensation expense increased $13 million from the year-ago period.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was over 66%.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was over 71% consistent with prior quarters and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was 64%.
This conversion rate reflects the impact of our investments during 2011 to strengthen our SG&amp;A base to support future growth.
And during the quarter AFFO increased by approximately $35 million or 13% relative to pro forma AFFO in the first quarter of 2011.
Core AFFO increased by approximately 16% which excludes the additional impact of one-time start-up CapEx as well as the impact of currency fluctuations.
As outlined on Slide 9 we deployed over $120 million via our capital expenditure program in the first quarter including $64 million on discretionary capital projects associated with the completion of the construction of over 600 sites globally.
Of these new builds 29 were in the U.S.
with the remainder throughout our international markets.
The majority of our international new tower builds were in India where we continue the Build-to-Suit project for both Reliance and Vodafone with the rest of our new sites primarily being built in Mexico Brazil and Chile.
We continued our discretionary land purchase program in the U.S.
to secure additional interests under our existing tower sites.
In the first quarter we invested about $15 million to purchase land under our existing sites through our capital expenditure program.
And as of the end of the quarter we owned or held long-term capital leases under 28% of our domestic sites.
Our first quarter 2012 spending on redevelopment capital expenditures which we incur to accommodate additional tenants in our properties was $23 million.
Redevelopment spending continues to be slightly higher than historical levels due to spending in our legacy Latin American markets to accommodate the additional capacity needs of our tenants.
As I mentioned earlier we are seeing strong lease-up trends in the region and are redeveloping some of our sites to ensure that we are well-positioned to capture this incremental land for our tower space.
And finally our capital improvements in corporate capital expenditures have increased in tandem with our increase in tower assets in addition to the start-up maintenance CapEx in Ghana and Colombia we discussed last quarter.
In aggregate these capital expenditures came in at approximately $20 million during the quarter.
From a total capital allocation perspective we deployed nearly $370 million during the first quarter including declaring our first regular dividend of $0.21 per share or approximately $83 million over $121 million on capital expenditures and approximately $159 million for acquisitions most of which related to funding transactions which closed in the fourth quarter of 2011.
During the first quarter we acquired 35 communication sites in the U.S.
and 800 communication sites in Brazil.
Please note that the funding for the sites in Brazil was completed in April.
And finally during the quarter we spent nearly $5 million to repurchase about 80 000 shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
We continue to expect that we will manage the pacing of our stock repurchases based on market conditions and other relevant factors.
Turning to Slide 10.
I'd like to spend a moment reviewing our success deploying capital while simultaneously increasing AFFO and return on invested capital.
Please note that for comparison purposes we have presented pro forma AFFO for prior year periods.
Since 2007 we've invested nearly $9 billion in capital expenditures acquisitions and stock repurchases.
Concurrently we've increased both our pro forma AFFO and pro forma AFFO per share on a mid-teen compounded annual basis.
In addition from 2007 to the first quarter of 2012 we've increased our return on invested capital by 180 basis points to 11.5% for the quarter.
We've been successful in driving this growth through our disciplined capital allocation strategy.
The strategy is simple.
First seek to return capital to stockholders through our dividend to ensure we maximize the tax efficiency of the structure for our stockholders.
Second we seek to reinvest our excess capital into our business through our capital expenditure program.
Third we further allocate capital to acquisitions both in our existing and potential new markets when our return hurdle thresholds could be achieved.
And finally if our opportunities for reinvestment are exhausted we deploy our excess cash flow through our stock repurchase program.
We manage the entire capital allocation process within the construct of our targeted capital structure.
Our disciplined approach to investments has resulted in our capital allocation strategy driving meaningful growth in both the return on invested capital and AFFO.
As a result we believe this capital allocation strategy will continue to create significant value for our stockholders.
Moving on to Slide 11.
Given our strong first quarter results and expected demand trends for the balance of the year we are updating our outlook for 2012.
Please note that similar to past precedent these numbers do not include any of our pending acquisitions with the exception of the 1 000 or so Uganda towers that we expect to close over the next couple of days.
Accordingly our outlook reflects the following adjustments.
First we are increasing our rental and management segment revenue midpoint to $2.77 billion from $2.69 billion representing an increase of $80 million or 3%.
As you can see approximately $18 million of the increase is attributable to cash organic business outperformance while $40 million represents the revenue contribution from newly acquired assets not previously included in our outlook.
The remainder is attributable to a weaker-than-expected dollar in the first quarter a slight increase in straight-line revenue for the balance of the year and the impact of the first quarter's one-time items.
Second we now expect our adjusted EBITDA for 2012 to be $1.82 billion at the midpoint which is an increase of $55 million or 3.1% from our initial outlook.
$28 million of the increase is attributable to the outperformance of our legacy assets.
$10 million is attributable to new assets and $17 million is attributable to a weaker-than-expected dollar in the first quarter plus the impact of the first quarter's one-time items.
Please note that the flow-through of revenue to EBITDA for our newly acquired assets is tempered by the impact of pass-through revenues and that the assets we acquired are primarily single-tenant carrier towers which we believe have high growth potential.
Lastly we are raising our AFFO outlook for the year to be $1.186 billion at the midpoint an increase of approximately $20 million over the guidance we shared with you in February.
The increase in AFFO is attributable to the $55 million increase in adjusted EBITDA which is partially offset by increases in projected interest expense as a result of our recent 4.7% senior notes issuance and higher cash taxes due to the higher forecasted profitability of our international segment.
In addition we are expecting to incur an additional $5 million of start-up CapEx related to the launch of our operations in Uganda similar to the start-up CapEx in Colombia and Ghana that we had discussed last quarter.
For the year in these 3 markets we expect to spend a combined $20 million for these nonrecurring start-up expenditures.
Now onto Slide 12.
I'd like to discuss the detailed components of our current outlook for rental and management segment revenue.
We currently expect that our full year total rental and management revenue will increase to between $2.745 billion and $2.795 billion in 2012 representing year-over-year growth of almost $385 million or 16.1% at the midpoint and representing core growth of approximately 18.7% at the midpoint.
The overall increase in total rental and management revenue can be broken down further in new number of discrete items.
First of all 3.8% of the growth will come from our contractual rent escalations from our existing tenants which represents about $85 million of incremental revenue for 2012.
Second at the midpoint we expect approximately $118 million of our revenue growth will be generated from new revenue on our legacy sites including new business lease up and amendment activity.
In addition about $248 million at the midpoint of our revenue growth will result from the incremental impact of our new sites which we built or acquired since the beginning of 2011 and includes our expectation that pass-through revenue attributable to our new sites will increase approximately $55 million to $230 million.
In addition we estimate that churn will be about 1.4% and offset revenue growth by about $31 million.
And finally we estimate that non-core items will negatively impact our revenue growth in 2012 by $35 million.
This is primarily attributable to the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar partially offset by the positive one-time items from the first quarter which I highlighted earlier.
Within these rental revenue growth numbers we expect our domestic rental and management segment to grow nearly 9% mostly via organic growth as well as the additional benefit of the one-time items from Q1.
Further we estimate that our international rental and management segment revenue growth will be over 37% driven by both organic and new site growth.
Please note that our current estimates for our international operations reflect the same FX assumptions for the remainder of the year that we used for our initial outlook.
These outlook ranges reflect our expectation that leasing levels in the U.S.
will be more favorable than the levels we experienced in 2011.
This assumption primarily reflects robust growth from AT&amp;T and Verizon but does not include any material new business contribution from Clearwire's LTE network overlay nor does it include an increase from T-Mobile although we are hopeful that we could see that materialize in the latter half of the year.
In our international markets where we expect double-digit core organic growth in 2012 we anticipate that the strong leasing trends we experienced in Q1 will continue.
In Latin America we expect companies such as Nextel International and Telefónica to roll out their recently acquired 3G spectrum.
Additionally indications are that 4G spectrum will be auctioned in Brazil within the next few months which may prove to be an additional catalyst in the near to mid-term.
In India we also anticipate demand trends to be solid going forward as the major carriers there continue to enhance their existing networks and eventually deploy 4G.
In light of recent developments it's important to note that we have very limited exposure as a result to the recent spectrum cancellations in India as our strategy has been to focus our business with the incumbent service providers who are operating prior to the 2008 spectrum auctions.
As a result of this strategy only 3% of our Indian revenue is at risk for cancellation and it has already been reserved in full.
Therefore looking forward we see potential opportunity for us as our major customers continue their spending to further deploy their existing spectrum licenses.
And finally in Africa we are expecting the solid leasing levels we experienced over the last few quarters to continue for the rest of 2012 as carriers continue to add coverage and capacity in their networks.
As I mentioned earlier we have excluded from our current outlook the impact of our pending acquisitions of about 1 300 sites for an aggregate purchase price of just over $150 million.
The pro forma run rate impact from these sites would be approximately $30 million of rental and management revenue on a full year basis which includes approximately $10 million of pass-through revenue and $15 million of gross margin.
Turning to Slide 13.
We currently expect our reported 2012 adjusted EBITDA to increase about $225 million at the midpoint to between $1.795 billion to $1.845 billion with core growth of 16.5% at the midpoint.
We remain focused on controlling costs in our business and our outlook for adjusted EBITDA reflects a gross margin conversion rate excluding the impact of increases in pass-through revenue of about 80%.
In addition cash SG&amp;A is expected to continue to trend below 10% of revenues.
As I mentioned aside from the impact of our Uganda acquisition we've excluded from our current outlook the impact of our pending acquisitions.
The pro forma run rate impact to adjusted EBITDA from our pending acquisitions which contributed approximately $15 million on a full year basis.
In regards to our expectations for this year's AFFO we are increasing the midpoint of our outlook to $1.186 billion representing growth of nearly $120 million or over 11% or over 12% on a per share basis.
On a core basis we expect AFFO to grow by nearly 15%.
Turning to Slide 14.
In 2012 we will continue to pursue our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
We are reaffirming our plan to deploy between $500 million and $600 million in CapEx during 2012 which includes spending on the construction of between 1 800 and 2 200 new sites.
During the first quarter we spent approximately $159 million on acquisitions and are currently projecting total expenditures for acquisitions for the full year of between $600 million and $650 million.
This includes approximately $170 million that we anticipate spending in May as well as an additional $150 million committed to funding the acquisition of approximately 1 300 sites we believe will close by year end.
Considering these investments on a pro forma basis we expect to have well over 50 000 sites by year end.
And finally in 2012 we continue to project that our primary method of returning capital to stockholders will shift to our regular dividend which for the full year we expect will be between $0.84 and $0.90 per share or approximately $345 million at the midpoint reflecting an AFFO payout ratio of about 28%.
Turning to Slide 15.
And in conclusion we had a very successful first quarter and believe we have built a strong foundation for the rest of the year.
We have seen robust leasing activity in all of our markets and anticipate this trend to continue throughout the rest of the year.
Our recent investments in people and systems are paying off in the form of process efficiencies and adequate staffing levels to allow us to rapidly expand our portfolio.
And moreover we continue to leverage our relationships with premier global telecom companies such as MTN and Telefónica to add high-quality assets to our portfolio and grow the business.
We continue to try to optimize our balance sheet to enhance our financial and operational flexibility and ended the quarter with approximately $1.8 billion in liquidity and leverage of about 3.7x.
As a result of our opportunistic capital raises over the last several years we've also been able to ladder out our debt maturities and had no significant refinancing requirements until mid-2014.
Through the payout of our first regular dividend we have introduced a new means by which we are able to return capital to our stockholders while utilizing a U.S.
tax strategy that we believe to be optimal for our business.
As I previously noted we now expect the full year distribution of $0.84 to $0.90 with the timing and the amount of the distributions at the discretion of our Board of Directors.
In closing we believe our recent investments will position us well to capture strong growth in 2012 and beyond.
Our operational expertise and the strong underlying wireless demand trends I've highlighted today throughout our global footprint have positioned us well to add another very successful year in 2012.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.
Jim? Thanks Tom and good morning to everyone on the call.
Our first quarter operating performance of 25% tower revenue growth 23% adjusted EBITDA growth and 13% AFFO growth demonstrates that our core business execution and disciplined investment approach continue to deliver compelling results for shareholders.
As a result of this robust first quarter performance and the completion of our recent acquisitions as Tom said we raised our full year guidance for 2012 for all 3 of the key financial measures.
Today I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing how we believe our strategy allows us to further differentiate American Tower as a unique investment opportunity in real estate leasing in the fast-growing mobile communications sector.
In the U.S.
our first-mover advantage in tower industry consolidation domestically resulted in what we believe is the highest-quality portfolio of properties in the U.S.
today.
Internationally our global diversification strategy provides opportunities to boost organic growth through early-stage real estate investments in faster-growing wireless markets.
Globally our focus on maximizing the utilization of our existing asset base complemented by our consistent and disciplined approach to evaluating investment opportunities has enabled American Tower to deliver compounded growth and AFFO per share in excess of 17% over the past 5 years while simultaneously increasing our return on invested capital by 180 basis points to 11.5%.
In the U.S.
American Tower holds the largest portfolio of properties either constructed as part of our Build-to-Suit project or acquired from the original cellular carriers or independent tower companies that we purchased.
This is an important strategic advantage which we believe will drive superior returns on invested capital and it's nearly impossible to replicate.
Specifically towers built by independent tower companies like us or the original cellular carriers generally have greater initial capacity to accommodate more tenants and equally as important larger ground space with favorable ground lease terms.
This added capacity results in lower ongoing OpEx and CapEx as additional tenants are added resulting in stronger AFFO and return on invested capital growth in our core domestic U.S.
business.
Through our 2005 acquisition of SpectraSite American Tower brought together 2 of the 3 highest-quality U.S.
tower portfolios at that time.
The quality of that combined portfolio has been one of the key drivers of our ability to generate the highest cash flow margins in our industry.
Another benefit of our acquisition of SpectraSite was the addition of Distributed Antenna Systems or DAS capabilities.
Today American Tower operates the leading portfolio of Indoor DAS properties in the U.S.
and we've had 7 years of small cell experience.
We believe that the best strategy for DAS continues to be measured internal investment to enhance our internal capabilities and ensuring that we're positioned to meet our customers' needs when and if they evolve.
While we don't currently experience or envision huge demand for Distributed Antenna Systems as compared to the tower-based macro cell network we do expect it will be a complementary part of our customer solution set to meet some of their dense urban market deployment needs.
Strong secular trends continue to support our U.S.
business with wireless carrier CapEx expected to exceed $30 billion in 2012.
As a result of the growth in wireless data usage we believe our customers will continue to invest to increase the coverage and capacity of their evolving data networks for years to come.
Moreover we are highly confident that similar dynamics around wireless data and entertainment adoption will occur in our international markets.
Consequently after we completed our integration of SpectraSite in 2006 we launched our global diversification strategy as we felt that American Tower had the necessary experience and intellectual property from our many years of operation in the U.S.
Mexico and Brazil to build further value for our shareholders globally.
As a result we sought to replicate our investments in Mexico and Brazil which at that time and currently now are generating the highest returns in our company.
Through a detailed global assessment of macro business and political fundamentals wireless industry dynamics and counterparty opportunities we've identified select countries where we felt we could duplicate this past success.
Today our international segment represents approximately 29% of our tower revenue 23% when you exclude the pass-through revenues.
And validating our original investment thesis our international properties cash organic revenue growth is higher than that of our domestic segment as Tom pointed out on a currency-neutral basis.
We are confident that our investments in our international operations will lengthen and strengthen our company's growth potential.
A key component of our international diversification strategy has been our focus on aligning ourselves not only with great countries but with high-credit quality counter parties as demonstrated by our relationships with some of the world's leading global telecommunications companies like Telefónica MTN Vodafone Bharti and América Móvil among others.
As a result of our global reach and long-standing business relationships with many of the world's leading companies American Tower has developed and continues to pursue a much broader set of investment opportunities.
We've invested in a global M&amp;A platform which today maintains a robust acquisition pipeline around the world.
Through our disciplined M&amp;A evaluation process we conduct a detailed discounted cash flow evaluation analysis of each opportunity which we consistently apply globally.
Then we compare our DCF valuation to current trading multiples to provide relative value context in the current market.
We intend to continue this disciplined approach to evaluating opportunities and we only pursue those which meet or exceed our risk-adjusted internal rate of return hurdles that will help us continue to expand our return on ROIC over time.
We believe the effectiveness of our acquisition assessment process has demonstrated our investment discipline and our continued commitment to delivering compelling growth and return to our shareholders.
The final point I'd like to highlight before we turn the call over for your questions is how we seek to return capital to shareholders which we believe further enhances our total return profile for our investors.
This includes both our dividend distribution which Tom outlined earlier.
We initiated that in connection with our REIT conversion and we still maintain our stock repurchase program as well.
Given the growth opportunities we see for our business our current dividend distribution levels provide for yield to our investors comparable to that of other high-growth S&amp;P 500 companies.
For 2012 our dividend distribution is expected to be approximately 30% of our AFFO or our internally generated cash available for distributions.
As we reach the full utilization of our current net operating losses over the next few years and as our tower depreciation expense diminishes our distribution as a percent of our AFFO will likely increase such that we would expect our dividend distribution growth to outpace our AFFO growth.
Of course each distribution will be subject to the approval and the discretion of our Board of Directors as we move along.
It's also our expectation that given the strong organic growth characteristics of our communication real estate assets and with our relatively low leverage as compared to other REITs we believe that American Tower would be in a position to deliver both dividend growth in excess of AFFO growth while continuing high levels of reinvestment in the business to drive continued expansion in our top line and adjusted EBITDA as well.
Our goal is to be a growth plus yield company.
And with that operator you can open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe a couple of questions.
First just wanted to follow-up on the last comment on dividend distribution just thinking what that could be in 2013 2014 and beyond.
You said the relationship between AFFO and earnings per share sort of implies 30% AFFO payout this year that should go up over time.
Can you be any more granular on what that may look like in 2013 just given what you know on NOLs bonus depreciation kind of how that runs off? And then second question just with everything that T-Mo wants to accomplish over the next sort of year 1.5 years and the pace that they want to move that would you expect contractually that this could probably take the form of an MLA similar to what we saw from other carriers? Sure Jason let me take the first one and I think Jim will take the second one.
With regards to the dividend distribution we've given some pretty clear guidance around what we expected the distribution to be this year because it was very -- we thought it could be very helpful given the fact that this was the first year in fact that we were going to be paying a dividend relative to our movement to a REIT.
But let me give you a few data points that could be helpful to understand how we think about this distribution growth over the next few years.
First of all we have an internal goal of sustaining long-term double-digit AFFO growth.
We've historically been able to generate and we have that continued goal going forward.
Our current payout ratio as a percent of AFFO is in the 28% to 30% range depending upon the guidance that we've given the $0.84 to $0.90 based upon the midpoint of our 2012 outlook.
Over the long term as our NOLs and depreciation tax shield decline as you identified our distribution should begin to increase as a function of both AFFO growth and a higher payout ratio and this would obviously result in a distribution growing faster than our AFFO growth rate.
Now clearly this is all going to be a function of where our board lands on that and it's within their sole discretion.
But hopefully that gives you a couple of data points that will be helpful to kind of think about that going forward.
Yes Jason this is Jim.
Regarding T-Mobile and their future.
Our goal with each of our customers is to contribute to making them successful in their technology deployments and upgrades and at the same time optimizing American Tower's revenue growth trajectory with that customer and minimizing churn risk especially sort of episodic churn risk.
You can expect that we're going to apply those same principles in our collaboration with T-Mobile going forward and we'll be able to talk more about that when we have some conclusions with them.
Your next question comes from the line of David Barden of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> If I could just kind of maybe follow-up on sorry the AFFO and the div question again another way which is philosophically look you guys have raised the AFFO guidance target as a result of paying out a $0.21 dividend.
The low end of your dividend range has come up.
So as you think about AFFO growth maybe being in excess of expectations is your recommendation to the board to try to consume your NOL faster? Or does a higher AFFO maybe embolden you to move to the higher end of dividend expectations? The second question I had Tom just on India you said it was fully reserved.
Could you talk a little bit more specifically about what that means for reporting? And if we had to kind of think through a bad-case scenario for the Indian market license issues what does that mean for AMT? Sure David on the second one on India I mean we looked at some of those companies some of the smaller companies that we didn't think candidly would be back in the market relative to some of the events here going on and they represented roughly 3% of the revenue stream in India.
And we in essence have canceled those or set-up an allowance if you will for those and that charge actually hit in the first quarter relative to our run rates.
So there isn't any longer anymore run rate revenue coming for them and that's included in the churn numbers that we outlined today.
And that was about 0.3% exposure David to the entire company which has already been reserved.
So I think it's past us.
And let me just say a word on the second topic and Tom can add more color if you like.
But again we're working to optimize growth in the business David and the yield for our shareholders at the same time.
And so that would imply that we're going to work the assets we have as efficiently as we can acquire new assets at attractive prices and show growth in the dividend as well to reflect it on both dimensions.
So that's the philosophy.
We will work with our board on this.
We'll give them recommendations every quarter every year on what those relative growth rates ought to be.
But our expectation is that our dividend growth will be faster than the average REIT and it will also exceed our AFFO growth.
That's our expectation and that's how we'll philosophically work with the directors.
Research Division</strong> So and I apologize to follow-up so if -- so can I interpret then that while you're raising your AFFO guidance but you're not raising or changing your dividend expectations that the inference is that you've decided to reserve that incremental benefit for the incremental investment in growth as opposed to incremental investment in dividend returns? Yes I think that's fair David and we're talking about 2012 and that we have the range for the dividend between $0.84 and $0.90.
And so clearly we could be at the high end of that particular range.
And I think that as Jim pointed going forward I think the way the right way to think about this is to look at kind of the AFFO growth and looking at the distribution we think that will outpace that AFFO growth and there are awful lot of things that are going -- that can go on from a tax return perspective in terms of looking at what taxable income is bonus depreciation all kinds of items.
So I think the best way to think about it is just as Jim laid out that we would expect that the dividend to be our goal would be to have it be higher than our AFFO growth going forward.
And we think that coupled with the AFFO growth in the business really provides an attractive return for our shareholders.
Yes and to put a final point on the topic David for you is we take capital allocation very seriously.
We always have here.
This is another aspect of capital allocation.
So as you've already seen in 2012 we've raised the midpoint of the guidance for the dividend for the full year.
So you can see that there's some allocation between the outperformance of the business to funding more business growth and to raising the dividend already.
So that's how again I would philosophically look at it going forward.
We're going to try to make intelligent capital allocation decisions especially when the business outperforms.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I guess you sort of hinted at this I guess in the back.
But when you look at the kind of the SG&amp;A and the leverage and the investments that you're making in these overseas markets the SG&amp;A grew about 20% and revenues grew about 24%.
So where are you sort of on the international investment side? And is it fair to assume that SG&amp;A going forward will be growing at a slower pace than revenue in order to get to kind of margin expansion? Or do you see further investments to make in these international markets which might keep margins flat for a while? No I think that's a very fair assumption.
I mean we've made some upfront investments including the investments in Uganda that we've been building and now anticipate actually closing on those towers the next couple of days in a venture that we're doing with MTN.
So as you would expect when you're going into these markets their upfront costs in terms of systems and people that we need to incur and what we would expect then going forward as we would increase tenancy on these particular towers that we would be able to the expand the margins.
And I think the logical place to look is at the -- what we've seen at our U.S.
market and the ability to increase the margins in our U.S.
business with the increased tenancies and I would expect to see those same kind of trends in our international markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess the second question and it's -- I guess it relates to that point you made about increasing tenancy and I know the domestic portfolio was somewhere in that kind of 2.6 to 2.7.
I believe the international portfolio was -- is closer to 1.6 but can you give us any sort of data points to kind of show how those towers are increasing if you will the occupancy rates? And as you think about making new acquisitions overseas how do you weigh kind of buying more towers with low tenants on and maybe having not filled up the older tenants? So what's the -- how do those 2 sort of play with one another? Right.
I think the easiest metric to look at is what we call organic growth rates.
And if you take a look at our U.S.
market this past quarter we talked about an 8.5% of organic.
That's kind of the same tower sales if you will lease-up as well as amendment activity on the existing sites that we've had for over 12 months.
And so in our domestic market U.S.
market was on 8.5%.
International markets it was 9.3%.
So we're already starting to see an increased demand for those more single-tenant towers because as you properly pointed out our U.S.
market were about 2.7 tenants.
And I think in international markets we're on average about 1.5.
So we would expect a higher organic growth rate in those markets going forward for a couple of reasons.
One is that we're creating a co-location market if you will in many of the countries.
You look at Chile Peru and Colombia for example those were all single-tenant towers.
So we're creating that market creating that demand putting master lease agreements in place with all the carriers and leasing that up as well as where they are from a technology perspective because they're in many of our markets 1 or 2 technologies behind.
So as they try to in those markets continue to expand and grow those technologies that's another impetus for what we would hope to be a higher tenant growth rate.
So we are -- we would expect a higher growth rate from those markets going forward.
But I think at same tower sales or organic growth rate is probably the best metric to look at.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the guidance for this year and to what extent it reflects activities from some of the projects that are in ramp mode so Network Vision Clearwire and T-Mobile.
And then with regard to shared generators can you talk a little bit about what would dictate the future pace of those deployments? Sure Jonathan.
I mean on the U.S.
market for example our guidance currently does not include any material increase at all from Clearwire and/or Sprint -- I mean or from T-Mobile rather.
I mean T-Mobile represents kind of 2% of our lease-up activity and it has for the last couple of years and that's what I have in the guidance.
So there's no increase there and Clearwire is less than 1% and I haven't included any significant -- any increase at all from those levels going forward.
So what we have in the -- or in the guidance going forward is really what we've been seeing over the last 3 to 4 months and which reflects a nice increase in commitments in the first quarter over 20% in the first quarter.
And we would expect on a consolidated basis that to be realized throughout the year.
As you saw in the kind of the rental revenue bridges that I was trying to identify in my remarks we have roughly $18 million of outperformance happening on a consolidated basis and that's split pretty evenly between our U.S.
and our international businesses.
And that reflects what we've seen in the first quarter and what we would expect to see for the balance of the year.
And Jon it's Jim Taiclet.
As to generators it's a nice complementary adjacent business line for us primarily in the U.S.
right now.
And it's getting traction.
We've got about 1 000 units out there.
We're on track to try to get another 1 000 out in say the next 6 to 12 months.
It'll be a medium -- small- to medium-sized business line for us over time and we're hopeful that the carriers once they get through their large technology deployments will pay a little more attention to the backup power aspect of it in years down the road.
So it's a nice niche for us that we hope to grow.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I might have missed it but the guidance both current and the prior guidance does it include the 800 Brazil towers or not? No that was incremental.
That was again a transaction that has resulted out of the relationship that we had and so we've been able to develop that and we're able to close that at the end of the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 and one is to hopefully finalize this dividend discussion just so we're clear.
It sounds the 2 reasons why you expect to grow the dividend faster than AFFO is because in the near term for the next few years you can apply your NOLs and then there's also the impact of depreciation.
How do we think about the depreciation? Is that something that's going to run in a level for a certain period of time and then just kind of fall off once you fully depreciated the portfolio a certain number of years out? Or does it kind of scale down over a period of time? And just in general what is this time period where depreciation is kind of helping you out in terms of taxable income growth and therefore dividend growth? And then the second one is you're a little below the midpoint of your targeted leverage.
I'm just curious have you had any discussions with the rating agencies if you want to go towards the high end as close to 5x maybe to fund the large domestic acquisition would that put your investment grade rating at risk? Yes Brett a couple of thoughts.
First of all on the depreciation.
I mean for tax purposes our towers are depreciated over 15 years and we've had them for -- and been building them up over the last several years but have had them for several years.
So what we would see over time is kind of a step decline if you will on the depreciation and the tax shield associated with those particular assets.
So that's several years out.
With regards to the leverage I mean we ended at 3.7x.
Our targeted range is in the 3 to 5x and so -- and what I and where Jim and kind of like to keep our balance sheet where we think is kind of the sweet spot for us is in kind of that 3.5 to 4x.
And so we think that we're pretty much right where we would like to be from a targeted capital structure perspective.
With regard to discussions with agencies I mean we -- as I said we've been at that 3 -- we're still within that stated 3 to 5x.
And I think to the extent that we went north of that 5x and didn't have a window to be able to bring your leverage down below the 5x I think the agencies would look at that very very carefully.
And so from our standpoint as I said we think that we maximize the value of the firm in that 3.5 to 4x and would we go higher than the 4x? Yes sure we would and we have.
We did at the end of last year and the good news is that the assets that we're buying will come along with cash flow so that we can work our way back into it.
And to the extent that there's a transforming type of the transaction sure we would be looking at that too and be willing to go high into the 4s to the extent that it makes sense.
But clearly with a visible path to be able to get down back down to our 3.5 to 4x.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify the depreciation one it sounds like the answer is the depreciation runs at a certain level for certain -- a couple more years and then it'll be sort of a cliff at some point.
I believe this is all your domestic depreciation that matters.
Is that correct? Yes but it's several years and we acquired and picked up those assets over time right? So they all didn't come on to our portfolio at one point in time.
So it is a little bit gradual but yes I mean they're depreciated over 15 years and at that point in time they're fully depreciated and that shield you don't -- you no longer have for purposes of computing what your taxable income is.
It's kind of the math.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Prentiss of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
You guys have done an admirable job growing the international portfolio.
Sometimes I can't keep my pencil as fast as you guys are writing it out.
Could you remind us what you said about -- so Brazil I don't remember talking about it last quarter.
The relationship allowed you to get it but it closed in 2Q.
Is there a CapEx number because when you were talking about the second quarter capital I don't remember that being in there.
Yes I mean relative to capital I mean it's within our original guidance.
So our original guidance of $500 million to $600 million it cares for the CapEx if that's what you were referring to for 2012.
With regards to the purchase price that was actually $150 million was paid in Q2 and that's in the bubble chart that I had in the presentation which talked to all of the acquisitions.
I think it was $600 million to $650 million of capital that we anticipate for actually all of the acquisitions in 2012 including the 1 300 pending acquisitions which we're contracted to close which we expect to close sometime during the year.
But we've excluded those 1 300 from actually our revenue and income forecast because we don't know exactly when they're going to close during the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's great.
And to my next question I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned that the 1 300 towers that are not in guidance would be about $150 million.
I was trying to look at my notes.
Can you refer back to what you said about the 1 300 that are not in guidance? Yes that's right.
The 1 300 around $150 million in terms of purchase price and relative to revenues it's about $30 million -- $15 million in EBITDA for a full year basis.
But again not knowing exactly when they're going to close Rick we didn't include them.
We just wanted to give you a sense of what the annual impact would be had we had them for a full year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense and the $150 million that was $30 million in annual revenue and $10 million -- $15 million in tower cash flow that was Brazil I guess? No it's different.
The Brazil is actually included in the $40 million increase in revenues that we've talked about in terms of increasing guidance for the newly acquired sites.
That and the impact of our investment in Uganda largely makes up that $40 million of revenue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question on the leverage  side.
Jim I think you mentioned that the REITs that you're in their universe now are much higher levered.
According to our sheet looks like REITs are typically more like 6.5x levered.
How does that make you think about your target levered sweet spot of 3.5 to 4 when your competitors are higher levered? Can they get capital cheaper? Are you leaving money on the table to get that external growth even faster? Just how do you think about it vis-a-vis the REITs? We don't change our financial policy in this regard Rick based on the REIT comparisons because of the reasons we're at 3 to 5 to begin with are lowest cost of capital in our opinion best credit rating trade-off and flexibility to make M&amp;A deals especially in difficult capital markets.
That's the strategy of the company.
It will stay the same and I think it's a benefit for us to have lower leverage than the average REIT.
And on the other side the average tower company because it gives us more flexibility to act in the asset acquisition market than anyone else.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered but I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about income coming from the international or the taxable properties I think that Leah mentioned that the effective tax rate was going to be a little higher than initially anticipated as you've seen maybe some stronger income out of those properties and was wondering how the company thinks about that and how you can manage across the portfolio.
Jonathan it's Tom.
I mean there are a number of tax strategies that we have put in place historically and we continue to look at going forward to minimize the cash tax impact in those markets.
One is leverage and we continually look at leverage there managing through all the FIN cap rules but to put increasing unit leverage at the local market to provide additional expense at that market to help do that.
But there are also a number of other tax strategies that we continue to look at or managing and that we'll be implementing over the next 12 to 24 months.
But we have taken some steps and we're as I said just kind of managing this process going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom I think this is a question for you.
2012 seems like a relatively big year on the ground lease renewal front and I was just curious if you could provide some color on how those negotiations are unfolding and whether you're seeing any pushback from landowners or if the economics are changing at all.
Yes thanks Lukas I mean the capital that we anticipate spending at least within our guidance is in that $100 million range.
It's a little bit higher than we had spent as part of our CapEx program acquiring land in the United States last year I think maybe $5 million to $10 million.
And we look at the land just like we look at any other asset that we are acquiring or investing in and it's a very disciplined DCF type of a model and to the extent that it makes sense for us to acquire the land and we hit our hurdle rates versus just put out on another 25-year lease or whatever it would be we'll move forward and buy it.
We're actively looking at land that's kind of 3 to 5 years out in terms of it coming up for renewal.
We have in the United States I think on average kind of 80 parcels that are coming up for renewal on an annual basis.
And we have a team dedicated to doing nothing but looking at acquiring the land where it makes sense going forward.
And as I said we continue to use the disciplined approach to doing it and so we're not going to be paying more than it might be worth.
Lukas this is Jim.
I think for real estate investors ground leases are an important topic and just maybe add a little bit more context some additional facts for your review.
As you know we have about 21 300 sites in the United States.
We have ownership as Tom said or are under capital lease about 28% of those towers.
The land underneath is fully secured through those mechanisms.
The ongoing program adds about 3% a year to the 28% for example.
So that's kind of the pacing of the $90 million to $100 million investment that Tom mentioned okay? That 80 ground leases per year that are coming up for renewal over the next few years annually that's only 0.4% of the total number of towers in the U.S.
at any given year that come up for renewal.
So again very manageable.
We do take it quite seriously.
We go out 3 to 5 years at least as Tom said and go out and get those but it's a very modest exposure to renewal each year going forward.
And that's really just some of the context I think will be helpful to real estate investors to gauge our -- but we manage the land tightly and we're increasing our ownership as we go.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I'm just curious in the cases where you don't or choose not to buy the land do you see I guess pushback on the rent that you're getting charged on that land? Are the economics changing at all? I think historically it's been roughly 15% of revenue goes towards the ground lease payments.
I'm just curious if that number is increasing at all.
Again it's Jim Lukas.
I'll speak to that.
There is back and forth in any renegotiation of whether it's a customer lease or a ground lease and we tend to have again a long lead time before the final renewal date comes.
We have the ability if we choose to move the customer contracts on to another land parcel and reconstruct the tower.
That argument tends to get people to be reasonable and we have very manageable growth we think in our leasing -- land lease cost over time.
And with the higher escalator we have in our customer leases and the organic growth we get on our towers on that land I think you'll find over the years that our revenue growth will be in excess of our ground lease growth.
Your final question comes from the line of Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Richard for Phil.
Earlier I guess in your original statements you said that new leases were 60% of business versus amendments.
Was that for the overall company? And if so what's the split in the U.S.? Yes no that was on a consolidated basis.
It was a 60% for new leases and 30% for amendments.
In the United States it's about 45% 55% and internationally it's up in the 80% 20%.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess staying with the U.S.
in terms of the construction environment versus M&amp;A environment should we expect kind of similar numbers to last year? Is the M&amp;A environment getting better worse? M&amp;A's really difficult to predict in terms of where it would be.
I mean pipelines are active.
We're looking at a lot of different things on a global basis including that in the U.S.
and it's very difficult to suggest what will or might get closed throughout the balance of the year.
Our construction rate will be in the same ballpark as last year though.
Right.
Okay I think that concludes our call.
I really thank you for your interest and we've actually gone a little bit longer I think than the hour.
So I appreciate your interest.
And if you have any further questions please give Leah or myself a call and again we appreciate your attention.
Thanks very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tanisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you Ms.
Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Capital Markets you may begin.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining American Tower's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investors tab on our website www.americantower.com.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our third quarter and year-to-date results.
Then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President CFO and Treasurer will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter as well as updated outlook for 2012.
And finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2012 outlook and future operating performance including AFFO growth and dividend per share growth our pending acquisitions our stock repurchase program and REIT distribution and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2012 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our third quarter and year-to-date 2012 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for approximately 98% of total revenues which were generated from leasing income-producing real estate primarily to investment-grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 13.5% to approximately $698 million from the third quarter of 2011.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 15.7% to approximately $464 million.
Operating income increased 29.5% to approximately $296 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $232 million or $0.59 per basic and $0.58 per diluted common share.
During the quarter we recorded unrealized noncash gains of approximately $46 million due primarily to the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to over $1.6 billion of intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than our local currency.
The intercompany loans have been utilized to facilitate the funding of our international expansion initiatives and general operations.
For accounting purposes at the end of each quarter these loans are remeasured based on the actual FX rate on the last day of the quarter end.
As a result of a weaker U.S.
dollar as of September 30 2012 compared to June 30 2012 the remeasurement of these loans generated noncash gains for accounting purposes.
Turning to our year-to-date 2012 results.
Our rental and management revenue grew 18.2% to over $2.06 billion for the 9 months ended September -- from the 9 months ended September 30 2011.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 19.3% to nearly $1.4 billion.
Operating income increased 25% to approximately $840 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $502 million or $1.27 per basic and $1.26 per diluted common share.
And with that I would like to call -- turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that we had another solid quarter and are on pace to complete yet another very strong year.
Our signed new business exceeded our expectations driven by continued global leasing momentum and revenue growth was augmented by the construction or acquisition of nearly 1 500 communication sites.
In addition we signed a new MLA with T-Mobile which extended our average remaining lease term with that customer to 9 years and locked in a significant amount of incremental contractually guaranteed revenue which on a consolidated basis now stands at nearly $19 billion.
As a result of these items we've increased our full year 2012 outlook for total rental and management revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
This morning I'll begin with more detail on our third quarter financial and operational results and conclude with a discussion of our updated expectations for the full year.
If you'll please turn to Slide 5 of our presentation you will see that for the third quarter our total rental and management revenue increased by over 13% to $698 million.
On a core basis which we will reference through this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations noncash straight-line lease accounting and significant onetime items our consolidated rental and management revenue growth was over 18%.
This 18% growth includes core organic revenue growth or same-tower growth of just under 7% which was driven by the strong new business commencement activity experienced on our existing sites.
The balance attributable to growth from the addition of almost 13 000 new sites to our portfolio since the beginning of the third quarter of 2011.
Our growth from new sites has primarily been generated from our investments internationally with over 95% of our 2012 new communication sites located in our international markets.
We believe these sites will continue to see solid demand as new technologies are deployed new spectrum is issued and wireless carriers support the growing demand for wireless data on their networks.
Turning to Slide 6.
During the third quarter our domestic rental and management segment's revenue growth was driven primarily by an increase in cash-leasing revenue from our legacy properties complemented by a $4 million straight-line revenue boost from the signing of our new MLA with T-Mobile.
Reported domestic revenue grew by 10% to approximately $480 million and core revenue growth was about 9%.
Our domestic core rental and management segment organic revenue growth was approximately 6.2% in the quarter which reflects new cash-leasing revenue on existing sites in the U.S.
This leasing activity continued to be primarily generated by AT&amp;T and Verizon as they continue to expand their 4G footprints.
Notably our total signed new business in the quarter which we would expect to commence over the next year or so was the highest we have seen since 2008.
Similar to the trends we saw last year and in the first half of this year the split between signed amendments and new leases in the third quarter was about 70% and 30% respectively.
The remainder of our core growth about 3% was generated from the nearly 500 new communication sites and approximately 1 800 property interests we've acquired or constructed in the United States since the beginning of the third quarter of 2011.
Also for the quarter our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased approximately $42 million or over 12% representing a year-over-year conversion rate of about 98% which reflects our strong ongoing property-level cost management.
As a result of our growth in gross margin operating profit increased over 13% to $368 million and grew to 77% of U.S.
rental revenues.
Turning to Slide 7.
During the quarter our international rental and management segment reported revenue increased 22% to $217 million.
This segment's growth met expectations despite being negatively impacted by 0 margin pass-through revenue coming in approximately $5 million lower than originally anticipated.
International core revenue growth was over 40% and international core organic growth or same-tower growth was about 8.4% which continued to be driven primarily by strong leasing activity from tenants such as Telefónica and América Móvil in Latin America Vodafone and MTN in South Africa as well as Vodafone Bharti and Aircel in India.
Year-to-date tenant leasing activity in our international markets continues to exceed our international expectations initial expectations and we expect 2012 to be the best year of international lease-up in the company's history.
Over 90% of our signed new business internationally continues to be in the form of new leases rather than amendments.
We continue to pursue our diversification strategy by making significant investments internationally.
During the quarter we constructed 580 sites and acquired an additional 850.
In total we have added over 12 000 communication sites to our international portfolio since the beginning of the third quarter of 2011 contributing 32% to our international core growth.
As we add new sites to our international portfolio our pass-through revenue continues to increase as we are able to share a portion of our operating cost with our tenants.
During the third quarter our international pass-through revenue was about $57 million which is up about 6% from the year-ago period.
From a reported gross margin perspective our international rental and management segment increased by nearly 20% year-over-year to $136 million reflecting a 59% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenue our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate would have been 85% and 63% respectively.
This conversion rate is somewhat lower than historical trends due primarily to the addition of our newly acquired Uganda sites which have lower day-one margins than the legacy portions of our international portfolio.
Our international rental and management segment SG&amp;A expense increased by approximately $3 million from the third quarter of 2011.
This increase was attributable to costs associated with establishing our presence in our new markets primarily Uganda.
As a result of our international rental and management segment gross margin growth our International segment operating profit increased almost 21% to roughly $111 million and our International segment operating profit margin was 51% and excluding the impact of pass-through revenue exceeded 69%.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the third quarter of 2011 was nearly 16% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter at over 19%.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately $63 million primarily as a result of an increase of about $83 million in total revenue which was partially offset by an increase in direct expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense of approximately $17 million.
Finally SG&amp;A excluding stock-based compensation expense increased $3 million from the year-ago period.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 65% as compared to approximately 64% in the year-ago period.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was about 71% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was nearly 80%.
And during the quarter adjusted funds from operations or AFFO increased by approximately $26 million or over 10% relative to AFFO in Q3 2011.
Core growth in AFFO which excludes the impact of approximately $11 million related to onetime start-up CapEx in our new international markets and the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations increased by over 20%.
I'd like to point out that our levels of nondiscretionary capital spending thus far in 2012 have been somewhat higher than historical levels and consequently have impacted our AFFO growth.
This increased year-to-date spending has been primarily attributable to over $18 million in onetime market start-up capital expenditures in Colombia Ghana and Uganda where we are investing in network operations centers in a number of our newly acquired sites as we bring them up to our standards.
These costs were contemplated in our acquisition DCF valuation analysis and we expect capital improvement cost per tower to revert to more normalized levels in these markets once the majority of the upgrade projects have been completed.
As outlined on Slide 9 we deployed over $150 million via our capital expenditure program in the third quarter split about evenly between our domestic and international rental and management segments.
We spent about $79 million on discretionary capital projects associated with the completion of the construction of 644 sites globally.
Of these new builds 64 were in the U.S.
with the remainder throughout our international markets.
We continue to utilize our discretionary land purchase program in the U.S.
to acquire land interests under our existing towers and increased spending under this program to approximately $21 million in the third quarter.
Year-to-date we have either acquired or extended over 600 leases which is in line with our initial expectations despite deploying less total capital than we originally anticipated.
This is a reflection of our ability to continue to close land transactions at attractive multiples and a testament to our dedicated land acquisition team.
As a result of our land acquisition activities we've typically been able to reduce land expense growth in the U.S.
by about 2% to 3% per year and the same has held true in 2012.
As of the end of the third quarter we owned or held long-term capital leases under nearly 30% of our domestic sites and have purchased land under 2 500 of our properties and extended the lease term on additional 2 700 by an average of approximately 20 years over the last 5 years.
We will continue to selectively acquire land when we can meet our risk-adjusted hurdle rates while also proactively extending our end-of-term maturities.
Our third quarter 2012 spending on redevelopment capital expenditures which we incur to accommodate additional tenants on our properties was $18 million.
Redevelopment spending continues to be slightly higher than historical levels due to spending in our legacy Latin American markets where we are seeing strong lease-up trends and are redeveloping some of our sites to ensure that we are well positioned to capture this incremental demand for our tower space.
Finally our capital improvements in corporate capital expenditures have increased in tandem with our increasing tower assets in addition to the start-up maintenance CapEx in Ghana Uganda and Colombia I discussed earlier.
In aggregate our capital improvement in corporate capital expenditures came in at approximately $33 million during the quarter.
From a total capital allocation perspective year-to-date we have deployed nearly $1.5 billion including distributions of over $260 million to shareholders over $375 million on capital expenditures and more than $800 million for the acquisition of over 3 500 communication sites globally.
Finally we have spent about $17 million year-to-date to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant our stock repurchase program.
Moving on to Slide 10.
We are increasing our outlook for total rental and management segment revenue.
This is driven primarily by outperformance in our core business as well as the $17 million of incremental revenue that we will record in 2012 due to the signing of our new MLA with T-Mobile of which approximately $15 million is attributable to straight-line revenue.
The core business outperformance that we are seeing is attributable to continued strong new leasing trends in many of our served markets as well as contributions from newly acquired sites that we've integrated into our portfolio.
Partially offsetting some of this revenue outperformance is approximately $8 million of lower than previously forecasted pass-through revenue.
Although this impacts our top line revenue growth the impact of the reduction in pass-through is essentially 0 to EBITDA and as a result positively impacts our margins.
In summary we now expect to grow total rental and management revenues nearly 17% year-over-year at the midpoint and our core growth expectations remain at about 20% for the year.
Additionally on a core organic basis we expect the U.S.
to grow at approximately 7% for the year with our international segment core organic growth expected to be in the low double digits.
Turning to Slide 11.
We are increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $35 million.
This increase is driven by the increase in revenue outlook attributable to our signing of the new T-Mobile MLA and the additional EBITDA outperformance of approximately $16 million in the U.S.
and about $2 million in our International segment.
As a result we are now expecting adjusted EBITDA to increase to $1.87 billion at the midpoint driving reported growth to 16.9% and core growth to nearly 20%.
For the full year we expect our EBITDA margin to be nearly 66% which is about 300 basis points higher than 2011 despite the addition of more than 5 400 new assets in 2012.
Moving on to AFFO.
We continue to expect AFFO to increase to nearly $1.2 billion at the midpoint driving reported growth of over 13% and core growth of over 17%.
The conversion of incremental EBITDA in our outlook to AFFO has been impacted by a few different factors.
First of the $35 million increase in EBITDA approximately $20 million is attributable to noncash straight-line impacts largely due to the new T-Mobile MLA which are excluded from AFFO.
Additionally we have increased our outlook for nondiscretionary capital expenditures by $13 million as a result of 2 key capital projects that we've decided to commence and accelerate spending on during the fourth quarter.
These 2 projects include the deployment of a network operations center and corresponding lighting system upgrade in the U.S.
and an upgrade to our disaster recovery systems in the U.S.
With respect to the installation of our NOC and lighting system upgrade over the next 12 months we are now planning to spend about $20 million which includes the installation of monitoring equipment and the replacement of approximately 2 500 tower site lighting systems across our U.S.
portfolio.
We now expect that up to $10 million of this spending will be incurred in the fourth quarter with the remainder in the first half of 2013.
We expect this project will yield significant benefits including: reducing site operating expenses by approximately $4 million on a run rate basis beginning in the second half of 2013; increased efficiencies with our operations personnel; and lower energy usage by our lighting systems due to the replacement of incandescent bulbs with energy-efficient LED bulbs.
In addition we are planning to upgrade our disaster recovery systems in the U.S.
and are expecting to spend approximately $3 million in corresponding corporate capital expenditures during the fourth quarter.
We've decided to begin spending on both initiatives during the fourth quarter as we believe they will drive long-term benefits for our business.
As a result of these capital spending initiatives our continuing start-up maintenance capital projects in several foreign markets and the seasonality of our international cash tax payments our outlook implies that fourth quarter AFFO will be relatively flat compared to the same period last year.
And as I said early though we expect reported full year AFFO growth of over 13% and core growth in AFFO of over 17%.
Turning to Slide 12.
We continue to pursue our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
We now expect to deploy between $500 million and $550 million in CapEx during 2012 which includes spending on the construction of between 2 000 and 2 200 new sites.
Year-to-date we spent over $820 million on acquisitions and are currently projecting total expenditures for acquisitions for the full year of between $900 million and $1.1 billion.
This includes deals closed year-to-date as well as additional capital we have committed to fund the acquisition of between 500 and 700 new sites we believe we will close by year end.
Considering these investments and coupled with our expected build program on a pro forma basis we expect to have well over 51 000 sites by year end.
Finally in 2012 we continue to project that our primary method of returning capital to shareholders will be our regular dividend which for the full year we now expect will be between $0.89 and $0.90 per share or approximately $355 million at the midpoint reflecting an AFFO payout ratio of about 30%.
In addition to the dividend we also utilize our share repurchase program as another means of returning capital to shareholders and currently anticipate the pacing of that program over the last couple months of the year to increase.
By year end we are targeting a net leverage range of approximately 4x fourth quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA which reflects spending for our pending acquisitions capital expenditures our fourth quarter dividend and the impact of this accelerated buyback pacing.
We remain firmly committed to our operating target leverage range and we'll continue to manage our capital deployment strategy including share repurchases within our targeted range.
Given our robust acquisition pipeline if other accretive capital deployment opportunities arise in the next few months we may adjust the pacing of our buyback.
Turning to Slide 13.
We continue to be extremely focused on deploying capital while simultaneously increasing AFFO and return on invested capital.
Since 2007 we've invested nearly $10 billion in capital expenditures acquisitions and stock repurchases.
Concurrently we've increased both our AFFO and AFFO per share on a mid-teen compounded annual basis.
In addition using the midpoint of our 2012 outlook we are projecting a 2012 return on invested capital of approximately 10.7% which represents an increase of 170 basis points since 2007.
We believe these trends demonstrate our ability to take advantage of the operating leverage inherent in our business model to drive rapid profitable growth on a global basis while simultaneously acquiring higher-growth assets to complement our existing portfolio.
We have been successful at driving this growth through our disciplined consistent long-term capital allocation strategy which is managed with the construct of both the required return hurdles thresholds and our targeted capital structure.
We believe this proven capital allocation strategy will continue to create significant value for our shareholders.
Turning to Slide 14 and in conclusion we've had a very successful year so far and are excited about finishing 2012 strong.
We've continued to deliver solid growth in revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO as a result of robust leasing activity throughout our served markets.
We successfully completed our MLA with T-Mobile USA and as a result have an average remaining lease term with our top 4 U.S.
customers of over 8 years.
Exiting the quarter we had nearly $19 billion in contractually obligated revenue backlog globally representing nearly 7 years worth of revenue.
For the remainder of 2012 we expect global demand for our sites to provide strong momentum as we close out the year and our balance sheet remains strong with our liquidity position at $2.4 billion as of the end of the third quarter.
Looking forward to 2013 consistent with our historical practice we'll be providing you with our official 2013 outlook on our year-end call in February.
However I'd like to close out my remarks with a few expectations we have for the business.
First we expect the current leasing trends to continue with our major customers in the U.S.
remaining focused on their LTE deployments.
Internationally in markets like Brazil Colombia and South Africa we are expecting strong demand as our customers continue making investments in their initial data networks and begin to spend on the heels of recent spectrum auctions.
Second we continue to maintain a robust M&amp;A pipeline and we'll manage our capital allocation consistent with prior years targeting our leverage at year-end 2013 in the 4x range.
We believe that there will continue to be meaningful opportunities to increase our scale across many of our served markets and expect to utilize our experienced local teams to drive significant growth.
Given the trends we are seeing now and expect to see over the next 2 years we believe that we will drive continued double-digit core growth in leasing revenues adjusted EBITDA and AFFO as we move into 2013 and beyond.
Internally we've set our sights on achieving core AFFO growth in the mid-teens.
And while it is up to our board's discretion to declare dividends we expect dividend per share growth of about 20% per year over the next 5 years and believe that we are well positioned to do so.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.
Jim? Thanks Tom and good morning to everyone on the call.
First we hope that everyone joining us and their families are safe and sound in the wake of Hurricane Sandy.
As of this morning's U.S.
operational report at American Tower all of our employees are safe and none of our towers are down.
The most significant effect of the storm has been loss of grid electrical power.
Of the roughly 4 600 American Tower sites in the affected area approximately only 200 have lost grid electrical power as a result of the storm.
While the loss of power does not adversely affect the tower directly except for the interruption of aviation lighting at the top of our taller structures it does render the wireless carriers transmission equipment inoperative in cases where they have not installed backup power systems.
However in those cases where the carrier has elected to subscribe to our shared generator service we have had 100% uptime which is a credit to our operations teams.
But in any and all of these cases our field technicians are currently working closely with their customer counterparts to get wireless service back up and running for everyone everywhere that power outages have been experienced.
As in their response to the hurricane and now turning to the business more broadly American Tower's talented and dedicated employees continue to demonstrate their ability to execute on the promise of the tower leasing business on a global basis.
Once again our teams from Boston to Johannesburg delivered great results in the third quarter with over 18% core growth in tower revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share.
Our strategy is straightforward and it's working.
This is to be the worldwide leader in mission-critical real estate leasing for the fast-growing mobile communications industry.
Our company's foundation is the U.S.
market.
And based on how the domestic mobile communications industry is developing as Tom said we expect many years of increasing demand for our tower space.
All of our original hypotheses about the U.S.
are playing out.
First the American consumers will drive smartphone and advanced device penetration toward 100%.
Second that leading U.S.
wireless carriers can profitably progress toward this penetration rate.
And third these carriers will continue to invest in network quality and capacity to sustain their competitiveness.
For example AT&amp;T just reported an 18% increase in data revenues last quarter.
And based on the recent agreement with SOFTBANK Sprint is receiving an infusion of cash that will help accelerate its technology modernization program.
T-Mobile should garner cost scale and capital markets benefits from its planned merger with MetroPCS.
Verizon for its part continues to push deployment of its advanced LTE network setting the pace for the industry.
Notably we recently completed the new master lease agreement with T-Mobile in the U.S.
And the result -- as a result we now have 3 out of 4 of our major U.S.
customers or nearly 60% of our current U.S.
revenue under non-cancelable comprehensive leases with a weighted average remaining current term of over 8 years.
These contracts have enabled us to lock in medium-term committed cash revenue growth from amendments related to our customers' network upgrades while also mitigating any potential churn risk from these customers.
In addition the contract structure leaves open the opportunity for us to achieve revenue growth in excess of the original commitment levels in cases where our customers exceed established tower sites loading limits or entitlements.
As a result today we are even more confident in our U.S.
segment's ability to continue to steadily generate 6% to 8% core organic growth into the future.
We've also observed an evolving development that should enable all 4 of the national U.S.
carriers to compete successfully in very high-speed LTE-based services with high penetration of the population.
We're starting to see each of these major carriers to be increasingly matching specific categories of spectrum holdings to align with variations in population density and the resulting capacity requirements for their advanced mobile networks.
We currently expect our largest customers in the U.S.
those with the greatest depth and breadth of spectrum assets to eventually prioritize their lower-frequency cellular band spectrum holdings for an overall coverage brace across their served territory and for the bulk of capacity needs in rural and lighter suburban environments.
This is the base network.
And as the base spectrum bands become more heavily used over time they can be augmented by targeting mid-ranged spectrum bands such as 19 megahertz to be more focused on denser suburban environments for additional capacity.
And for very high concentrations of capacity demand such as in dense urban environments higher-frequency spectrum above 2.0 gigahertz can be brought online ultimately and effectively deployed to further strengthen the base of coverage as 4G networks get more and more heavily loaded over the next few years.
Over a period of time this matching of spectrum brands towards their optimal population density assignments should assist our wireless carrier customers to effectively and efficiently increase capacity to profitably then offer advanced services to an ever-increasing number of users across a full range of geographies.
This will then support strong demand for our tower sites well into the future in urban suburban and rural environments.
Over time we anticipate that this phenomenon may translate to some of our international markets as well.
That is carriers matching spectrum to capacity requirements based on population density and capacity concentration.
Furthermore as time goes on when unit cost for smartphones and LTE transmission equipment declines emerging markets with more modest GDP per capita will also be able to enjoy the benefits of these advanced technologies even with lower wireless ARPUs.
We therefore continue to believe our international diversification strategy will sustain core organic growth rates 200 to 300 basis points above the growth rates even generated by our U.S.
segment.
During the third quarter we continued to see solid leasing with the majority of our international signed new business coming from multinational investment-grade tenants such as Bharti Vodafone MTN and América Móvil.
Our international presence has positioned us to benefit from the network investments of these telecom leaders and other wireless service providers that are being made globally.
Even that our -- given that our international markets tend to be earlier or even much earlier in the technology cycle the growth opportunity for ATC should continue even further into the future.
The potential for us to attain an extended growth trajectory is one of the main motivators of our global strategy.
Another key motivator is the much broader array of asset acquisition and investment opportunities that we have available to us.
American Tower can therefore pick and choose among numerous target markets at any given time to secure the best value opportunity.
This has contributed significantly to our ability to expand both AFFO per share and importantly return on invested capital simultaneously over a multiyear period.
Before I wrap up and we take your questions I'd like to highlight our commitment to delivering compelling total returns to shareholders through a combination of growth in both AFFO per share and our recurring dividend.
On one hand we do intend to move our financial leverage ratio towards 4.0 the midpoint of our established target range through asset acquisitions and share repurchases when the pipeline's a little bit lighter.
Today we're also projecting as Tom said and given our anticipated REIT tax position and corresponding dividends requirement going forward our expected average compound annual growth rate in those dividends over the next 5 years will be 20%.
Each dividend distribution of the company will of course be determined and declared by our Board of Directors based on the circumstances pertaining at the time of each dividend proposal to them.
So thank you for joining us on the call today and we'll now open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] You have a question from the line of Ric Prentiss.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question for you on Slide 11 when you talk about the adjusted EBITDA and AFFO guidance it shows that the T-Mobile deal added $17 million in EBITDA but you had a straight-line changes of $20 million.
So I'm wondering were there's some land lease changes also in the straight line or can we think about what the cash benefit on an EBITDA basis was for T-Mobile in 2012? Yes sure Ric.
I mean of the $17 million $15 million of that was straight line.
So $2 million was from cash and then there's an additional $5 million broken into 2 pieces.
We had an -- some additional straight line in one of our international markets of a few and a couple million dollar lower straight-line impact if you will from land in the United States.
So that's how you got in the...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then obviously spending money on disaster recovery system sounds like a very good idea right now as well as the other projects.
As you think about the AFFO spending in 2013 I think you mentioned more normal levels in the international arena once the updates or upgrades are done.
What should we think about as the kind of normal maintenance CapEx level in the U.S.
and then internationally? Well as you know I mean our maintenance in corporate CapEx has historically been highly correlated to our tower base which is what you would expect.
And historically it's been in that kind of $1 300 to $1 500 per tower per year.
This year the rate is just about $2 000 just under $2 000 given those onetime CapEx spends in the field and on our systems.
I'd -- I would expect Ric that rate to approach back to those more normal levels say over the next 18 months or so.
I mean as I mentioned we have some of the U.S.
spend is continuing in the -- into the first half of 2013.
We still have some additional spending that we're doing in -- on some of the NOCs in particular in Colombia and down -- and over in Ghana.
So I guess what I'm saying I think over this -- to the second half of next year you'd see it start to come back to more and more normal levels as we've seen in the past.
But we contemplated all the capital that we're currently spending now in all of our models and it just happens to come through and impact AFFO.
So for the year we're still expecting reported over 13% growth and on a core basis over 17%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that $1 300 to $1 500 per tower maintenance should we split that between U.S.
and international? Because I assume international is a probably lower maintenance cost given the heights are lower and the costs are probably lower.
Yes and that's exactly right.
I mean in the U.S.
we're $1 500 probably to $1 700 and in the international markets in the $1 000 to $1 200 kind of range and depending upon the market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more quick cleanup.
On the straight line for T-Mo was T-Mo in for the full third quarter? So as we think about that annual adjustment of $17 million and $15 million for T-Mobile how many months should we think about was equivalent to? Yes.
What we're talking about there is roughly 4 months.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 4 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just first to quickly clarify on the extra investment in the third quarter Ghana Uganda et cetera.
Is that going to be repeated at all in the fourth quarter? Well that was -- the numbers that we've talked about there it's roughly $25 million.
That was for the whole year.
So there'll be continued spending in the fourth quarter Phil as we continue to pass it out and probably about $7 million of that will be spent in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the balance the other element of it which was the up to the $13 million a good piece of that will be spent in the fourth quarter and continue up to -- in the first half of the year.
And that's why I mentioned the additional $10 million that will be spent in the U.S.
on some of the network operations spending in the first half of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then can you give us any visibility into next year? What do you see from carriers in terms of cell splitting as they come to the later parts of their amendment activity? Phil it's Jim.
We expect for the next couple of years that again the majority in the U.S.
of network development by the major carriers is going to be in the form of amendments by and large.
In the 3- to 5-year timeframe it's going to move back towards more of a 50-50 split for what we see amendments versus new leases.
And that will be when the co-locations really materially start to kick in.
So there are obviously time differences here.
Verizon's got sort of an earlier start in some markets than say a T-Mobile.
So you'll see this migration probably begin to happen late next year into 2014.
But I think it really becomes significant in 2015 and beyond.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'd like to ask a follow-up question on the international investments.
This year you're putting about $25 million of incremental CapEx in.
As we look into next year you've talked about some projects in the U.S.
But in terms of the start-up costs on the international side will they ramp down as we go into 2013? Or should we be thinking about some continued spend there in terms of the impact on AFFO? And then secondly on the dividend growth.
It was great to give that incremental color today to hear about the 20% annualized growth rate.
I'm wondering if you think that's going to be a fairly steady growth or potentially it's slower growth in the first couple of years and then accelerates as some of the D&amp;A rolls off from the early 2000 acquisitions.
Yes.
No first Jon on the international side that's exactly right.
We would expect that spending to decline clearly in 2013.
It was largely as we stated the kind of onetime start-up CapEx as we brought those sites into our portfolio.
And with regards to the dividend and as we mentioned it's obviously subject to board declaration.
We would expect fairly steady growth over the 5-year period.
Your next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Tom I just want to go to the international profitability if I could.
I think you said that the underlying EBITDA margin was about 71% after adjusting for pass-through versus 77% in the domestic business.
How should we think about that gap over time? Is that something that we can sort of narrow over time or is that going to be fairly stable kind of profitability? And I think you talked about a $5 million lower pass-through revenue in international.
Perhaps you could just give us more color on that.
And is that something that was more of a onetime or is that something that we will see extending forward? Okay.
No sure Simon.
On the profitability we've talked about this a bit in the past.
I would absolutely expect that gap to become smaller over time.
There's no reason to expect that it wouldn't.
I mean the tenancy on international markets is about 1.5 tenants per tower versus our U.S.
market which is up in the 2.7.
So as we continue to see demand in those markets and additional lease-up in those markets we should absolutely expect to see increased profitability to getting closer to the U.S.
levels.
And with regards to the pass-through as we continue to bring these towers into our portfolio in the international markets we've estimated when we're actually going to be taking them over and being able to manage them.
And so we would expect that pass-through those towers to be coming over into our portfolio and us to manage them over the next 3 to 6 months.
So that pass-through we should absolutely see going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of James Ratcliffe.
Research Division</strong> Two if I could.
First of all maybe housekeeping.
But looking at the AFFO core growth I think in 2Q you cited there was about a $12 million gain in 1Q '12 that was an offset core growth and I'm not seeing that mentioned here.
I'm just trying to align the 2.
And secondly the 4x I assume that's net leverage.
And that certainly would imply if you've -- given the EBITDA growth you've talked about and either a pretty significant step-up in CapEx or acquisition or capital return.
I mean how are you seeing the acquisition environment now versus say 6 months ago and your ability to find attractive ways to deploy that in terms of assets versus capital return? Sure.
Jim let me give you a couple.
First of all on the onetimer that's exactly right.
In our core growth which we expect to -- as I said before to be north of 17% it's really made up of kind of 4 elements of it.
First of all there is some FX impacts in there which is roughly about 3.5% of growth.
There are -- is this spending that I've talked about which is the onetime capital spending in those 3 markets and that's about 2.5%.
And there's the refund which we backed out which is what you've talked about before and some onetime items which we've also backed out.
So we look at core AFFO the same really way that we're looking at core EBITDA or core revenue in that we are reflecting the taking out in essence the impacts of FX the additional spending as well as those onetime items which you talked about before.
On a -- on the net leverage perspective you're right.
I mean we do expect some activity.
We did -- as I mentioned in my remarks there's a couple of hundred million dollars that would -- that we would expect to close an additional 500 700 sites in the fourth quarter.
We did talk about the increase in our buyback program which we would expect in the last couple of months of the year.
So our pipeline remains robust around the world in the U.S.
as well as in our international markets.
And what we have in the guidance right now in terms of the remarks we had is what we contractually have committed to be able to close by the end of the year which will yield as I mentioned before well north of the kind of the 51 000 sites which we would expect by the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Well my first question was really the one that was just asked on I guess how you're looking at acquisitions and sort of the pipeline.
Can you just maybe elaborate a little more Tom as to -- as you sit here today versus say this time last year and you sort of look at the number of deals that were maybe bubbling up I mean do you sense that there's more potential activity looking forward over the next 12 months more or less? Or -- that's kind of one.
And then two maybe Jim could you talk just about India? And are there any resolutions to some of those auctions? And how do you sort of think about the deployment in that market? Sure Steve.
It's Jim.
I'll go and take both of them here.
Year-to-year the pipeline I would say is roughly the same.
But we've got 3 gates that we go through especially on international acquisitions and a lot of things get eliminated.
And sometimes they get eliminated at the very end because we just can't get there on acquisition price or our value doesn't meet the sellers' interest or some other bidders' levels.
So we've got plenty of activity really in every region and so I would say that there are similar opportunity sets out there.
It's a matter of which ones that we can get to the right value and then you'll see us consummate those.
And then in India as far as the auction situation goes there is progress.
There's a January 2013 expectation of this auction being conducted.
Our view is that -- and those bidders that have announced that they're going to participate are our major customers those with the financial wherewithal to actually deploy this.
And so those include Bharti Vodafone IDEA Telenor which is a Scandinavian operator that's in India a big way as well as Tata.
So all of these carriers are serious about expanding their business.
They are among our biggest customers and we're looking forward to them to get some more spectrum to keep rolling out their network.
Our next question comes from the line of Batya Levi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about the international organic growth.
I think you mentioned 8% in the quarter and that seems to be a big drop from the double digits that you talked about in the second quarter.
Is that mostly explained by the lower pass-through revenue that you talked about? And what do you think will drive it back to double digits in the next quarter? Batya that's exactly right.
I mean if we take a look at international the range over last couple of years has been 200 to 300 basis points higher than the U.S.
It reflects the growth in those markets and lower tenancy.
In Q3 as you said we generated an 8.4% growth rate expect double digits for the full year.
And the rate is being impacted by some of the different pass-through if you will on our legacy sites.
So as I said we would expect that to continue -- that growth to kind of continue into next year particularly as we see those lower tenancy sites start to pick up additional leasing activity.
Research Division</strong> And you also mentioned the lower gross margin conversion was because of entering the new markets.
When do you expect that to get to normal levels? Well I mean I would expect that in 2013 to start to back -- get back up to approach the more normal levels.
This particular quarter we had the impact of -- kind of that initial impact if you will of bringing Uganda into the portfolio.
So we should start to then see that come back up.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first question you've talked about and we've heard other tower companies talk about this as well in terms of excess on top of MLA so I guess overage.
How do we think about that? Does that show up as sort of an amendment to the MLA? Or how does that flow and how meaningful could that be? And then second question just getting back to share repurchase activity.
I think Tom you talked about it accelerating in the next couple of months.
What sort of framework should we think about for pacing you might be willing to step up to now? Jason it's Jim.
On the master lease agreements you characterized it exactly right.
There's an overall comprehensive payment that happens every month every quarter under these holistic MLAs as we call them.
And those are for certain limited rights across the portfolio and tower by tower.
So any excess whether it's the number of sites that are eligible for a certain upgrade or it's an additional equipment above and beyond the limits that were established in the MLA there will be amendments for that particular activity that will be over and above as we call it.
And on the buyback Jason we've I think year-to-date are in the kind of that $15 million to $20 million range.
I would expect that clearly to double if you will before the end of the year.
So we put as you all know 10b-5 programs in place and it's a function of where the stock price is at a given point in time.
But I think there'll be a meaningful growth in that and the balance of the year.
Your final question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
I wondered if you could discuss the terms of the T-Mo MLA in a little more detail.
How does it compare the -- to the other MLAs you've signed historically in terms of structure or what Crown and SBA have announced on their -- over the last couple of quarters? Kevin it's Jim.
We don't speak to specific parameters of our master lease agreement.
But I think in general what we can say is that we've extended the remaining term of all the T-Mobile leases with American Tower out to approximately 9 years.
Secondly that it is a holistic-type structure that's going to help enable T-Mobile to operationally speed up its rollout.
It takes out a lot of the administrative back and forth and allows them to speed up the process and the cycle time with us which is great.
Interestingly the 4G upgrade is not for all of their sites they asked for and it's for a portion of those.
And if they extend the number of sites they need to ultimately touch we'll be talking to them again about that.
So I think it's a very good deal for both companies.
We're already off and running on the introduction of that to our field teams and we're going to help T-Mobile get the 4G up and running with it.
Okay.
Well I think that concludes our call.
Again as Jim said we hope that all your families are well and that you've all -- are making it through the hurricane that's affected us on the east coast and we wish you well.
Thanks again for all of your interest here.
This concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Angel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Towers and Fourth Quarter Full Year Earning Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Ms.
Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Capital Market.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Angel.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investors tab on our website www.americantower.com.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows: first Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide opening remarks; then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President CFO and Treasurer will review our financial and operational performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 as well as our outlook for 2013.
And finally after these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2013 outlook and future operating performance including AFFO growth and dividend per share growth; our capital allocation strategy including our stock repurchase program and REIT distributions; and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2012 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Leah and good morning everybody.
American Tower's growth strategy is based on a simple observable premise: the consumers' appetite for mobile communications and entertainment are growing dramatically in the U.S.
and around the world.
The most recent industry results and forecasts confirm that we're squarely in the midst of a decade of wireless in the U.S.
based on tremendous demand for mobile data and entertainment services.
In just the first 2 years of the decade smartphone penetration increased from about 20% to nearly 60% and mobile data traffic grew by 5x in just those 2 years.
Moreover as shown on Slide 5 the most recent Cisco forecast that was just released projects that mobile network traffic will grow another 10x over the next 5 years.
The Cisco study also estimates that approximately 75% of this growth will be delivered over traditional macro sites primarily towers.
The remaining 25% of the expected growth would be on supplemental solutions such as DAS picocells and WiFi with even some of these small cell installations being used on or in connection with macro sites on towers and we're actually starting to see some of that now.
Therefore our view is that macro site network infrastructure which is predominantly tower based will shoulder the bulk of network expansion and is expected to grow at a 50% cumulative average growth rate over the next 5-year period as you see in the dark green on the chart.
So to meet this demand we expect our wireless carrier customers to continue to employ an integrated approach to their networks which will further increase demand for communications real estate especially towers.
An obvious aspect of this integrated approach is the installation of fourth generation wireless technology primarily long-term evolution or LTE.
This network upgrade requires the installation of additional equipment especially antennas to our customers' existing cell sites.
As a result site leasing rates increased due to the amendments our customers make to their existing contracts with us.
This investment cycle has been a key driver of recent revenue growth for tower operators as they install 4G.
Another important aspect of the integrated approach is the attainment and deployment of incremental wireless spectrum.
This often results in additional lease amendments for equipment that's needed to transmit the new spectrum or for other rights at our sites again contributing to our revenue growth.
However additional equipment in spectrum won't be enough to meet the exploding demand for mobile data and entertainment.
Over time new cell sites will be needed to increase the capacity and density of each carrier's 4G network.
Today less than 10% of U.S.
wireless subscribers are experiencing the speed and quality of service offered by LTE technology.
As the level of penetration of LTE devices increases and voice over LTE commonly known as VoLTE is added to carrier service offerings it's our technical view that additional cell sites will be needed as a result of the higher signal strength required to effectively deliver acceptable video and VoLTE  applications to large numbers of users.
So as site proximity and consequently network density increases American Tower expects to secure additional leases on our existing towers as well as more opportunities for new tower construction.
Of course both these activities are major drivers of our future growth.
Today the U.S.
is among the leaders in moving to 4G technology with the 4 largest domestic carriers in the process of national LTE deployments right now.
However we believe that access to the broadband data and entertainment services enabled by 4G will be in high demand not only in the U.S.
but worldwide.
In some of our 11 served markets we're already experiencing the following developments: In Germany LTE has been rolled out first in some rural areas as per local regulatory requirements but the overall deployment although it started is at least a year behind the U.S.
Further in countries such as South Africa Mexico Brazil and Colombia 3G is still even in the process of deployment while 4G is either in the planning or very early initiation phase.
In these types of countries the lag time behind the U.S.
schedule is we believe about 2 to 5 years.
And then in markets such as Ghana and India voice coverage is still being expanded while 3G service is in the introductory stage.
4G will come down the road and these types of markets we believe are 6 to 10 years behind the U.S.
schedule.
So as a result we believe our international presence will lengthen and strengthen American Tower's domestic growth trajectory.
Our management team anticipated this global phenomenon years ago and in preparing for the future our first step was to achieve a doubling of our U.S.
assets with the acquisition of SpectraSite in 2005.
This move positioned ATC as the first mover in the consolidation of the domestic tower industry and lays the financial and operational knowledge foundation for our ultimate global expansion initiative.
Then beginning in 2007 we established regional teams around the world to explore and cultivate growth opportunities leveraging our U.S.
knowledge base and our early experience operating in Mexico and Brazil.
Once again these teams used their first-mover advantage which started 6 years ago to build leading franchise positions in the most critical and attractive markets in each region for example expanding dramatically in Mexico and Brazil while adding new cornerstone markets such as India Colombia South Africa and most recently Germany.
Moreover our teams have secured deeply rooted strategic relationships with some of the world's leading mobile operators such as Telefónica MTN and Millicom further strengthening our international positions.
So given our geographic strength in mobile operator partnerships I'd argue that our strategic positioning on the international front is truly exceptional.
As a result of our growth prospects in the U.S.
and around the world we've set a new aspirational goal to once again double our asset base and our financial performance over the next 5- to 6-year planning horizon.
Our confidence in striving towards this new goal is bolstered by our company's progress over the past 5 years.
When I first set our sights on doubling the business at the end of 2007 our tower count stood at 23 000 sites.
After 5 years we more than surpassed this goal by ending 2012 with over 54 000 sites.
So turning to Slide 6.
I'll quickly review our company's consistently strong financial performance over those past 5 years beginning with rental and management revenue growth of 14.5% cumulative average growth rate that you do see on Page 6.
The next slide shows the 14.2% CAGR in gross margin.
And then Slide 8 shows the 14.1% CAGR in adjusted EBITDA.
Moreover we were successful in maintaining adjusted EBITDA margins at industry-leading levels all along the way.
Then on Slide 9 you can see that AFFO per share has grown nearly 15% per year over this period.
Moving on to Slide 10 we've also enhanced our return on invested capital at the same time.
And on Slide 11 you can see that we've also maintained our disciplined capital structure keeping our financial leverage near the midpoint of our stated 3 to 5x range.
Given this consistent track record American Tower's management team is committed to pursuing our aspirational goal of doubling the business yet again.
We expect that much of this growth will be generated organically through our worldwide portfolio of over 54 000 sites.
We also anticipate that our strategic relationships with our key customers around the globe should support a construction program of 2 000 to 3 000 sites per year.
And that our significant cash flow generation capabilities should in turn enable us to choose to invest in additional acquisitions that meet our investment criteria or to repurchase shares during periods during which available asset prices and quality may not meet our standards.
Our management objective is to deliver mid-teens growth in AFFO per share for our investors as we strive to double the business again over these next 5 years.
At this point I'll turn it over to Tom to describe in detail the company's fourth quarter and full year 2012 performance and our outlook for 2013.
Following that we'll take your questions.
Tom? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
We finished 2012 on a high note and believe we have positioned ourselves to have a solid 2013 reflecting both a strong global demand backdrop as Jim just laid out for tower space and the operational performance of our employees.
If you'll please to turn to Slide 13 of our presentation you will see that both our domestic and international segments had another strong quarter in Q4.
Our U.S.
reported rental and management segment revenue increased by 7.5% and nearly eclipsed the $500 million mark for the first time in American Tower's history.
On a core basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations noncash straight-line lease accounting and significant onetime items growth was 9%.
The majority of sites acquired during the quarter closed late in December so the revenue contributions from those transactions were relatively modest to our quarterly results.
Finally core organic growth which reflects core growth on sites that had been in our portfolio for at least 1 full year was 7.6% in the fourth quarter.
During the quarter signed new business which is a leading indicator of future revenue commencements was at levels well over recent highs.
In addition churn continues to decline and was only 1.2% during the quarter.
Turning to our international segment results.
Reported fourth quarter rental revenue growth was over 36% with core growth coming in at nearly 45%.
Core organic growth was over 13%.
Our international segment growth was positively impacted by the launch of our operations in Germany in late -- in early December which contributed about $4 million to the quarter.
Our reported consolidated rental and management revenue increased by over 15% to $740 million in the quarter with core growth of over 19%.
This growth was composed of core organic revenue growth of about 9% which was driven by strong new business commencement activity on our existing sites with the balance of our core growth attributable to the more than 14 000 new sites we have added to our portfolio since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2011.
About 90% of these new communications sites are located in our international markets and have an average tenancy ratio in the low 1s.
Consequently we expect there to be significant future new business demand for these sites over the next several years.
Turning to Slide 14.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the fourth quarter of 2011 was nearly 17% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter at about 20%.
Reported adjusted EBITDA increased by about $71 million in the quarter primarily as a result of an increase of roughly $115 million in total revenue which was partially offset by an increase in direct expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense of about $29 million including a $19 million increase in international pass-through costs.
Our direct expense growth during the quarter was favorably impacted by a onetime item in the U.S.
of approximately $5.7 million related to land rent expense.
Finally SG&amp;A excluding stock-based compensation expense increased $14 million from the year ago period driven in part by our international expansion initiatives as well as investments we've made in our domestic business.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 65% as compared to approximately 66% in the year ago period.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was about 71% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was nearly 75%.
And during the quarter adjusted funds from operations or AFFO increased by approximately $13 million or about 5% relative to AFFO in Q4 of 2011.
This reported growth was impacted by several items including about $15 million in onetime international cash tax payments primarily related to withholding taxes and audit settlements approximately $6 million related to onetime start-up CapEx in our new international markets and the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Adjusting for these items core AFFO growth was about 12%.
Now moving on to Slide 15 and discussing our full year 2012 results.
The performance of our rental and management business both in our domestic and international segments was also ahead of our original 2012 plans.
Our domestic rental and management segment reported revenue grew 11.3% to over $1.94 billion.
Our domestic segment core revenue growth was just under 10%.
And our core organic growth for the year was more than 7%.
This growth was driven primarily by the strong lease-up environment we saw all year in the U.S.
as the carriers led by AT&amp;T and Verizon continued to be extremely active in rolling out next-generation wireless networks.
Similarly as a result of the nearly 18 000 sites we have added to our international portfolio since the beginning of 2011 and the associated impacts of increased pass-through revenue as well as record levels of organic new business our international rental and management segment reported revenue increased over 34% to $863 million with over 50% core revenue growth for the full year.
Core organic growth in our international segment was 13.6%.
In 2012 our international pass-through revenue was $229 million reflecting an increase of about $53 million.
On a consolidated basis for the year reported rental and management segment grew 17.5% to a reported $2.8 billion with core revenue growth of over 21% and core organic revenue growth of over 8%.
Turning to Slide 16.
For the full year 2012 our adjusted EBITDA growth relative to 2011 was about 18.6% with our core adjusted EBITDA growth at over 21%.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin was about 65.8% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was 69%.
Excluding the impact of pass-through our adjusted EBITDA margin would have been about 72%.
In addition AFFO increased by $143 million or 13.5% relative to AFFO in 2011 and 13.6% on a per share basis.
Core AFFO growth was nearly 19%.
AFFO growth in 2012 was driven by our adjusted EBITDA growth partially offset by increased cash interest expenses associated with the funding of some of our growth initiatives.
This strong adjusted EBITDA and AFFO growth reflects our continued commitment to driving long-term cash-based returns through accretive asset acquisitions and leasing up existing sites.
Turning to Slide 17.
We deployed nearly $570 million via our capital expenditure program in 2012 split about evenly between our domestic and international operations.
Some highlights of our capital deployments in 2012 include nearly $280 million spent on discretionary capital projects associated with the completion of the construction of nearly 2 400 sites globally.
Of these new builds 250 were in the U.S.
with the remainder throughout our international markets.
In addition we continued to utilize our discretionary land purchase program in the U.S.
to acquire a land interest under our existing towers in 2012 and spent over $80 million to purchase more than 500 land parcels under our sites during the year.
We also meaningfully extended the terms of another 500 leases.
The fourth quarter represented an unprecedented level of activity in our land program.
And as of the end of the year we owned about 29% of the land under our sites and had a remaining lease term of over 22 years on the balance of our land leases.
We were able to leverage our experienced teams to close these transactions at attractive multiples underspending our original budget of $100 million.
Acquiring land parcels has historically led to a reduction of about 2% to 3% in our land rent expense growth per year and we will continue to selectively acquire land when we can meet our risk-adjusted hurdle rates while also proactively extending our end-of-term maturities.
From a total capital allocation perspective we deployed nearly $3 billion including REIT dividend distributions of about $356 million to shareholders nearly $570 million on capital expenditures and about $2 billion principally for the acquisition of nearly 6 500 communications sites globally.
Finally we spent about $46 million in the fourth quarter to repurchase shares of our common stock bringing full year total repurchases to approximately $63 million pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Moving on to Slide 18.
I'd like to spend a few minutes walking through how we expect the capital we spent on 2012 acquisitions will -- to translate into revenue tower cash flow and AFFO in 2013 and beyond.
In 2012 we acquired nearly 6 500 sites 713 in the U.S.
the remainder in a number of international markets including our new Ugandan and German markets.
On an annualized basis we expect these sites which have an average of about 1.3 tenants to generate approximately $200 million in revenues $130 million in tower cash flow and about $50 million in AFFO.
On a consolidated basis the acquisition price for these transactions equates to a year 1 tower cash flow multiple of about 14.5x or an NOI yield of about 6.9%.
Our day 1 average multiple was a bit higher in 2012 compared to past years given a greater proportion of U.S.
sites in the mix.
We continue to believe that these types of results demonstrate our ability to pursue value-creating investments through our capital allocation process.
And given the low current tenancy expect these sites to generate growth in future years.
Turning to Slide 19.
I'd like to begin our 2013 outlook discussion with an outline of our expectations for rental and management revenue growth.
Consistent with past practice these numbers only include sites in our portfolio as of today which includes the 883 sites we acquired in Mexico earlier this year plus our expected 2013 build program.
So these numbers do not include any additional pending acquisitions.
We currently expect that our full year rental and management segment reported revenue will increase from $2.8 billion in 2012 to between $3.16 billion and $3.21 billion in 2013 representing year-over-year growth of $382 million or nearly 14% at the midpoint and core growth of approximately 16.5%.
The overall increase in total rental and management revenue can be broken down further into a number of discrete items.
First of all about 4% of the growth will come from our contractual rent escalations from our existing tenants which represents about $95 million of incremental cash revenue.
Second at the midpoint we expect approximately $160 million of our revenue growth will be generated from new business including new leases and amendments on existing sites.
In addition we expect that about $210 million at the midpoint of our revenue will result from the incremental impact of our new sites which we built or acquired since the beginning of 2012 and includes our expectation that pass-through revenue attributable to our new sites will increase about $56 million.
We estimate that consolidated churn will be about 1% and offset revenue growth by about $38 million.
The holistic MLA structure that we have in place with 3 of our top 4 customers in the U.S.
is helping to keep domestic churn low.
Finally we estimate that the net impact of our noncore revenue will negatively impact our growth in 2012 by about $45 million which is primarily attributable to the impact of an approximately $30 million year-over-year reduction in straight-line revenue and the nonrecurrence of several favorable onetime items in 2012.
We currently expect minimal FX impacts on our results in 2013.
Moving on to Slide 20.
We expect our domestic rental and management segment reported revenue to grow about 7.2% via mostly organic growth.
We're projecting core growth in our domestic segment to be over 10%.
Embedded in our domestic rental and management revenue segment outlook is our expectation that the very positive leasing environment we saw in 2012 will continue in 2013 as all 4 major carriers aggressively deploy 4G.
In addition to the high level of confidence we have in revenue growth through the contractual provisions in our holistic MLAs we think we are well positioned to capture incremental revenues above and beyond those agreements.
And as you would expect we've not included any potential contributions from DISH Clearwire or a National Safety Network build-out in our outlook numbers.
Turning to our international rental and management segment.
We expect reported revenue growth of over 28% with core revenue growth of almost 30% and core organic growth of nearly 10%.
Throughout our international markets we expect the strong leasing trends we saw in 2012 to carry over into 2013 as carriers deploy newly acquired spectrum and further their investments in wireless data.
In Latin America we expect companies such as Telefónica and America Móvil to remain active in their 3G overlays.
In India we expect the large incumbent providers such as Vodafone IDEA and Bharti to increase their network investments as the regulatory and competitive environment improves.
In our 3 African markets we continue to see strong demand trends both in Uganda and Ghana where the focus is still on voice networks and in South Africa where wireless data is becoming a reality.
Finally we expect our German assets to perform well in 2013 as carriers begin their government-mandated rural 4G build-outs.
Turning to Slide 21 we currently expect our reported 2013 adjusted EBITDA to increase over $210 million at the midpoint to between $2.08 billion and $2.13 billion representing reported growth of over 11% and core growth of 14.8%.
This reflects the strong rental revenue growth I spoke about earlier as well as consistent year-over-year performance in our services segment.
In addition to driving revenue growth we continue to remain focused on controlling costs in our business and our outlook for adjusted EBITDA reflects a gross margin conversion rate excluding the impact of increases in pass-through revenue of about 78%.
In addition cash SG&amp;A is expected to come in under 10% of total revenue as we continue to leverage the investments we've made in SG&amp;A over the last several years.
We expect SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue to trend down over the next several years as we gain incremental scale in our served markets.
We are also introducing our 2013 outlook for AFFO of $1.385 billion at the midpoint representing growth of over $185 million or 15.6%.
On a core basis we expect AFFO to grow by over 16%.
Our outlook for AFFO reflects our growth in adjusted EBITDA and is impacted by the carryover of about $20 million in start-up maintenance costs in Colombia Ghana and Uganda.
In addition as we highlighted for you last quarter we anticipate that our U.S.
maintenance CapEx in 2013 will include about $15 million in spending on a network operations center and lighting upgrades for certain towers.
Once completed we expect annual OpEx savings of up to $4 million as a result of these projects.
Our goal is to continue to deliver mid-teen AFFO growth as our sites continue to produce increasing levels of cash flow.
Moving on to Slide 22.
In 2013 we expect to continue to carefully deploy our capital through our capital expenditure program and selected acquisitions.
We currently plan to spend between $550 million and $650 million in CapEx during the year which includes the construction of between 2 250 and 2 750 new sites.
In addition we spent approximately $250 million on an acquisition in January and are continuing to evaluate additional acquisition opportunities.
Given our build plans for 2013 and the acquisition we just closed we currently expect to have about 58 000 sites by year end.
Finally in 2013 our primary method of returning capital to share -- to stockholders is expected to continue to be our regular dividend.
The amounts and timing of our dividend payments are at the discretion of our board but our goal is to deliver annual dividend growth in the 20% range over the next 5 years as we discussed last quarter.
In addition as part of our REIT planning we expect to bring one or more of our international operations into the QRS structure during the first half of 2013.
Principal reason for this event is that this is likely to drive additional cash tax benefits in local markets.
Turning to Slide 23.
I'd like to spend a moment to highlight a few points in our balance sheet.
We ended the fourth quarter of 2012 with the last quarter pro forma annualized net leverage ratio of about 4.1x which reflects a full quarter adjusted EBITDA impact from the acquisitions we closed in the fourth quarter.
We continue to believe that we maximize the value of our firm by managing our capital structure within our stated target leverage range of 3x to 5x net debt and more specifically around the 4x level.
We expect to continue to manage our capital structure consistent with these ranges.
In January of 2013 we completed a 3 1/2% $1 billion senior unsecured note offering and used the proceeds to pay down existing indebtedness under our credit facilities.
This demonstrated our ability to opportunistically access the capital markets at very attractive rates and we are continuing to evaluate refinancing options to further optimize our capital structure.
We currently have liquidity of about $2 billion and believe that we are well positioned to continue to have utilized our strong stable balance sheet to fund incremental profitable growth for our business while maintaining our leverage within our targeted range.
Turning to Slide 24.
And in summary I'd like to spend a few moments just recapping our key milestones in 2012 and outline some of our goals for 2013.
In 2012 we delivered solid growth in our key revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO metrics.
In addition we continue to invest in our business by adding nearly 9 000 sites to our portfolio while entering 2 new markets.
We invested nearly $3 billion globally during the year which included returning more than $400 million to our shareholders.
We continue to believe that these investments have positioned American Tower and our shareholders to benefit from the rapid worldwide adoption of wireless services for many years to come.
As evidenced by the outlook we've issued today we believe that 2013 will be another very solid year driven by strong demand for our communications real estate throughout our global footprint.
In combination with our longer tenured assets we expect the more than $9 billion investments we have made over the last 5 years to drive compelling cash returns in 2013.
Finally we will continue to carefully manage our balance sheet and seek to opportunistically access the capital markets at favorable rates as we seek to make incremental investments in growth.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
And operator we'll now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could we get a sense of how Germany slots in your international portfolio? Before I guess you had said that South Africa India and Brazil are kind of anchor countries.
Where does Germany fit in there? Yes Phil it's Jim.
Germany is exactly in the same category.
It's we think the best market with respect to geopolitical and macroeconomic characteristics.
Of course there are 4 multinational wireless carriers there.
KPN is our counterparty but we also obviously have business already with the other 3 which are T-Mobile Vodafone and Telefónica.
So it's really right down the middle for us as an anchor store market so to speak in the European region.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And of your I guess guidance for like 2 000 builds can you give us a sense of where that would break out to kind of what countries you wish [ph] to see more builds in than less? Yes I mean -- like -- Phil like in -- this is Tom in 2012 I would expect the U.S.
to be probably north of what they did in 2012 probably in the 300 range.
We're building significantly as we have been in India so we're probably building in the 100 per month kind of range.
We would expect a little bit of a tick-up in Latin America as we're seeing more 3G being deployed in those markets with the balance in Africa.
Research Division</strong> And I guess a kind of final quick one.
In terms of SBA entering Brazil do you expect any changes or difficulty in growing in Brazil now with another competitor.
No not at all.
And your next question comes from the line of David Barden with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Tom just last year you guys were able to map out kind of a very specific range for dividends which was helpful because of the moving parts that AMT has with some of the NOL coverage of the income.
And obviously that guidance helps the market kind of peg where the rates could come out.
I know you said 5-year growth in the 20% range for dividends but if you had any more color with -- for the plan for 2013 it would be helpful.
And then the second question was just kind of digging into the core growth numbers especially for the domestic business guys obviously those numbers are going to be benefited in fourth quarter and in 2013 by the kind of acquisition portfolio.
If I was going to look at same-store sales growth for the domestic business could you kind of share with me what did the fourth quarter looked like? What are you embedding same-store sales growth for your towers into the 2013 outlook can be helpful.
Yes David.
That's an easy one.
I mean if you take a look at the chart -- I forget what page number it is -- talking about the domestic revenue growth that core organic growth metric that we talked to is exactly what you are referring to as the same-store tower.
It's the growth on those towers that we've owned for at least a year.
So I think of that as same-tower growth and it's been in the kind of the 7.5% range.
In 2013 we're looking at 7.4% core organic growth.
The overall core organic growth is a bit higher because of the decline we see in straight line in 2013 versus 2012.
But we've always talked about kind of core organic growth in the U.S.
in that 6% to 8% range we're smack in the middle of that for 2012 and 2013 and the international core organic growth to be 200 to 300 basis points higher.
And 2013 outlook is right at 10% core organic growth in our international markets.
So it's consistent with what we've seen and what we would expect.
On the dividend question I mean it's subject to the discretion of our board obviously.
What we had said last quarter -- or what we had said at this same time last year and the reason that I gave guidance out on it was that there were a lot of moving parts.
It was our first year to pay a dividend and so I know it was very difficult for investors to understand exactly where that number would be.
So we laid it out at the $0.80 to $0.90 and ended up at $0.90 in terms of a dividend or the $355 million.
So that's why in the last quarter earnings call we talked about it being a 20% growth over the next 5 years and hopefully that will give people the right expectation of what they should expect the 2013 through '17 dividends to be but even specifically 2013.
And David the other way to get to it as a confirmation is we continue to sort of guide to 100% payout of U.S.
taxable income and you can project that way as well.
But it should be a pretty fairly predictable and stable dividend flow.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just one last kind of housekeeping item.
Obviously the new market expansion expenses and CapEx were kind of a recurring onetime adjustment that we've been working through in '12.
Could you kind of map out how we should we be thinking about '13 for those expenses and the run rate? Yes we talked about kind of another $20 million of start-up CapEx in 2013 from Uganda Ghana and in Colombia.
And we would expect it then to level off.
We have some additional maintenance CapEx that we're spending in our U.S.
operations relative to the NOC and as I mentioned the lighting systems of about $15 million.
But if we didn't go into any new markets you would expect that maintenance CapEx to really just grow with the incremental towers that we would in fact be building.
So we would expect that to tail off.
Yes.
And David even though we've mentioned it on 3 or 4 calls it is the 3 same markets the whole time right the less developed Uganda Ghana and Colombia.
So those are the types of locations where we've had to upgrade some of the sites to meet our specifications.
But in countries like Germany we don't have that issue whatsoever and we didn't in South Africa either.
So those are the ways to kind of look at this to know that this is not an ongoing kind of recurring issue.
And your next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I think Jim you had mentioned some interesting commentary about the importance of densification around voice over LTE and video.
And as we see Verizon and AT&amp;T concluding a lot of their kind of initial coverage how are we starting to see that move to that second level of densification? Is that something that is going to be a material factor exiting 2013 or is that more of a 2014 factor? It'll probably begin to layer in in 2013 with certain carriers and then on to 2014 and beyond.
And the way that the engineering community kind of refers to this is Phase 1 build Phase 2 and Phase 3.
So Phase 1 build we expect to be done -- and again Phase 1 is dominated by overlays on existing sites which is driving most of the tower industry's 4G business right now.
Verizon and AT&amp;T are the 2 leaders in this deployment schedule so to speak.
Our expectation is Verizon will have Phase 1 essentially complete which in our view is 300 million POPs or more covered by the end of 2013.
AT&amp;T our expectation is it will be in the same situation again 300 million POPs covered by year-end 2014.
And then Sprint and T-Mobile will probably get their -- our estimation again is about 20 -- by the end of 2015 they'll be at 300 million POPs respectively.
So as you sequence those Phase 1 schedules out Phase 2 tends to follow very quickly after.
And so you'll see throughout -- till the end of 2015 overlaps between Phase 1 and Phase 2 among the carriers and in Phase 2 you do start to see the densification happening.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what sort of -- do you think that's enough growth to continue the same sort of trajectory the high single-digit organic that we've been seeing for the last couple of years? We do think so and it's a matter of a combination of consumer demand and the carriers the wireless carriers' ability to meet that demand profitably.
And we think as long as those 2 things continue to happen that given the competitive dynamic in the U.S.
and really most of the other markets we're in you're going to see active network deployment to stay competitive among the carriers.
And in the U.S.
that's been justifying about $25 billion to $30 billion of CapEx over the past few years annually.
As you all know we think that's fully justifiable in the next few years as these companies continue to roll out.
And it's really important to note only about 10% as I said of handsets out there today -- or less than 10% in the U.S.
are 4G LTE.
And one of the things that our technical advisers have provided to us is when they compare a 3G phone's monthly network burden to a 4G phone's monthly network requirements it goes up by 5x from 3G to 4G per month.
And so when you start going from 10% to 20% to 30% 40% 50% penetration of these phones that are using 5x capacity you're going to have to keep investing in your network.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason Armstrong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple of questions.
First on the 2013 guide.
Just as we think about the progression through the year is there anything that would make this year different as it relates to front end or back end loading and pacing of the guidance? And then second question Tom I think you've got some CMBS debt callable in the May-June time frame.
To what extent was that built into the AFFO guidance and in terms of refinancing that at lower rates? Yes sure.
Jason in terms of the loading I would say pretty consistent with 2012.
It was pretty well even throughout the year I think it was maybe 45% in the first half 55% in the second half.
I would expect similar kind of trends probably more along the 50% 50% so pretty even throughout the year.
And with regards to the financing as I mentioned earlier I mean we based our guidance based upon the towers that we had on hand and kind of the balance sheet that we have on hand so the answer's no.
We haven't reflected any changes in our future funding or the benefits or the impacts of refinancing of anything on our balance sheet.
And your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I was interested in the international core organic growth.
You gave an estimate of 10%.
And if you could maybe highlight among your largest international markets which ones you see performing strongest relative to that 10% bogey.
And then also on international with regard to the possible use of MLA structures you talked about the use of holistic MLAs in the U.S.
and to what extent might you use that internationally going forward? Yes Jonathan it's Jim.
Our active -- most active markets in 2012 I'd put South Africa right at the top of the list.
Incredibly busy leasing environment with Telkom which is sort of the government-sponsored carrier Vodacom and MTN all deploying 3G data at a pretty rapid rate.
We were the again first-mover commercial leasing company in South Africa with our Cell C acquisition and the timing happened to be very fortuitous for us on that one.
In addition to that in Latin America both Brazil and Mexico drove excellent new business both of them had Nextel deploying 3G aggressively.
But in Brazil you also had América Móvil Telecom Italia and Oi filling out their 3G networks as well at a pretty rapid pace.
All 4 of them -- actually all 5 of those carriers in Brazil are trying to get ready for the World Cup and the Olympics and there are some requirements for them to have coverage for those events that are pretty extensive.
In Mexico Telefónica was also very active along with Nextel as they try to stay competitive with Telcel in 3G.
So those are a few examples.
And then the last one I'll offer is Colombia.
Another really good surprise almost for us that our timing was as fortuitous in that again 3G is starting to roll out.
A company called UNE has a 4G of network rollout that started.
And the 2 major incumbents are again a couple of our big multinational customers which are Millicom and América Móvil there as well as Telefónica.
So those are some of the real highlight markets for us.
For 2013 we think India is going to step right back up again once the spectrum auctions are completed in August -- sorry in March rather of this year.
And what you'll see there is the major carriers with the financial capacity will have the additional spectrum in hand to go ahead and keep deploying their networks which is the right answer over there.
Finally on the MLA front first of all I want to clarify everyone's understanding of what these holistic MLAs really are really quick.
These master lease agreements aggregate all the existing individual contracts for a given carrier under a very specific set of rights.
They're not capped.
They're not all-you-can-eat.
Whenever those rights are exceeded and some of the parameters include additional equipment on towers above limits they include types of spectrum that aren't in the original rights.
They're going to number of towers that you don't have included in the deal.
So for example T-Mobile's only got 1/2 of its sites with us in the holistic deal.
There are a lot of parameters that can be exceeded.
Those parameters tend to have been based by mutual agreement with us and the carrier on the carrier's original build-out assumptions.
And if those build-out assumptions which they often do get exceeded because customer demand is greater or because technical specifications didn't quite get met by the OEM et cetera you're going to see -- and we are seeing -- fairly extensive over and above amendment billing that's going on with essentially all of our holistic deals right now.
So just to clarify that is the structure.
Secondly it tends to be useful when there's a lot of amendment activity going on.
So we don't have these deployed yet in our international markets because 95% of our new business in the last quarter in the international markets was colocations and new leases.
So there'll be a time when we'll be able to apply these holistic agreements in the more advanced markets.
That will probably be in the next few years though.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally on international you talked about bringing in 1 or more markets into the QRS and can you talk a little bit about the I guess the savings at the local level that you would hope to realize from that? Yes I mean the -- actually Jon just I want to add to Jim's comments first of all on the kind of core organic growth.
Also keep in mind that almost 1/2 of that core organic growth that we see having [ph] in the international markets is coming from escalations.
So as we continue to build and build out new markets there we have that constant escalator that continues to give us our advantage if you will in those markets.
[Audio Gap] to the REIT structure we'll look first of all at our more mature markets if you will in terms of who we would be bringing in to the REIT.
And there's a technically nuance really within the kind of the REIT structure that to the extent that we have it in our REIT we're able to recharacterize the debt in the local markets and as a result potentially have a higher rate of interest in those markets.
And so that's what's really driving the cash tax benefit in those markets.
And it can be up to $5 million to $10 million in 2013 for us depending upon the timing and the market that we bring in but we think that that justifies bringing it back into the REIT.
And your next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I actually want to go back to clarify the master lease agreements stuff that Jim was just talking about to make sure I understand this.
We're so aware of the heavy level of activity on towers now being driven by the upgrades but I think as you were pointing out all of that upgrade work -- well not all of it -- but a lot of it is covered in the MLAs meaning that it sort of is irrelevant how much activity there is.
Isn't that correct that your MLAs are really dictating the pacing of your new revenue maybe more so than the actual activity levels? I think that's a fair characterization among the big 4 -- 3 of the big 4 carriers that have the holistic agreements.
We feel that's good news which means the trajectory of the revenue growth from those 3 carriers is first of all it's positive and second of all it has a floor on it.
And the most important specific benefit in that regard of these agreements Brett is that American Tower has 0 iDEN churn exposure in the next number of years because of the agreement we have with Sprint.
So we've eliminated all iDEN churn.
We have a minimum revenue ramp growth rate with those 3 customers which as I've pointed out we are adding over and above revenues in all of those cases at some level on those.
Research Division</strong> And the reason I ask -- sorry to interrupt you.
The reason I ask is some investors point out like this is sort of a peak activity year because upgrades are so intense.
But as we get through the upgrades and we get to the point which we think we're going to get to as you refer to as your Phase 2  where carriers start adding new sites again that activity is generally above and beyond what's contemplated in the MLA.
So could we see a scenario where activity goes down because upgrades are lighter but the amount of activity that creates new revenues goes up or do I misunderstand how the MLAs work? I don't think you're misunderstanding it but I do think the carriers are going to take advantage of the rights they do have and front loading them benefits us and actually benefits them because they can get the signal out faster if they kind of front load the activity that you're talking about on our towers with the holistic agreements.
But also the Phase 2 and 3 refreshes will also go first we hope on our towers as well.
So there's kind of a mutual benefit to having the holistic agreements which allow for in theory the complete set of additional equipment you need on existing towers over a period of years right Brett so that's what the holistics are designed to do.
They are not designed to meet your Phase 2 requirements right? So Phase 2 requirements which are going to start between a year and 3 years from now your hypothesis I think is correct is that can be incremental business to ATC under these agreements.
But then again there's a schedule to the holistics as well.
We're working with our carriers to synchronize that they get increasing value for increasing tower lease revenue to us over time and we're trying to work with them so that that's both fair and benefits ATC.
And your next question comes from the line of Batya Levi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the last question.
As we see the carriers approach the end of Phase 1 do you anticipate that they will continue to spend on 3G capacity to support the higher usage that they have or do you envision 3G capacity -- 3G spending to be completely replaced by 4G going forward? Well what's I think beneficial about our holistic agreements is it doesn't matter to us right? So you have as a carrier rights to so many antennas so many lines so much ground space per existing contract with us under these holistic agreements.
And therefore we're agnostic as to whether that equipment is 3G or 4G.
At the bottom of it all we do think -- depending on the deployment schedule -- there will be carriers that we've been talking about that are going to have to continue to invest in 3G as they do their handset change-outs over the years because again it's -- all in it's less than 10% 4G handsets right now.
So 80% to 90% of what's going on out there is still being covered by 3G.
Those usage-per-month numbers are also going up so again your hypothesis I think is correct.
There'll be 3G investment but hopefully that'll add to this over and above opportunity for us with some of these carriers.
And your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim when you're looking at doubling the business over the next 5 years can you give us a sense for what that mix between acquisitions and organic growth would look like? And also what do you think is the opportunity in Europe? I think rough parameters would be we could probably get halfway there as far as doubling the financial performance of the business with our organic growth opportunity.
Another call it 10% to 15% or more with build-to-suit activity and the balance could be mergers and acquisitions.
That's a way to double essentially the AFO -- AFFO over a 5- to 6-year time frame.
Those can be some of the major ingredients.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Europe? I'm sorry could you repeat that portion? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just what's the opportunity set to expand in Europe? That will be a characteristic of the situation with the carriers in each country and their willingness to divest towers at prices that we'd be willing to pay.
We've had a team in Europe for 5 years now and we did our first deal 2 months ago.
That could be the opening of other carriers coming to the same sorts of asset price points that we can find attractive or it may not be.
So it's really just a complete function of the opportunity set as these carriers reconsider ownership of towers and what they'd be willing to part with those towers for.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did I understand you to say that 1/2 of T-Mobile sites are covered under the MLA? Yes that's right.
Half of the sites are under the T-Mobile MLA.
And if they need to exceed that there'll be another renegotiation conversation which I'm sure will be constructive if they need it between American Tower and T-Mobile.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what's the percent of coverage sites for the other 2 major carriers? They are 100% of the existing sites at the time we signed the agreements.
Just to clarify that they don't include build-to-suits since then.
They don't include acquired towers that we've brought on since then in the United States.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one quick follow-up for Tom.
Could you kind of explain for us what the land rent one-timer was during the quarter? And then sorry if I missed it but what's the budget for land acquisitions in '13? Yes.
First of all the budget for land acquisitions in '13 is around $100 million.
In terms of the particular item we looked at a transaction that we had done recently and we just adjusted the lives [ph] on that particular transaction and as a result generated a onetime benefit in the quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen with Macquarie.
Yes you have a high level of new builds in your 2013 guidance.
I was wondering if you could go through roughly what the CapEx per new tower build is by region in Europe Africa LATAM U.S.
and India.
And do IRRs differ on builds versus buys in each region? First of all just on the -- for 2013 I mean the builds is pretty consistent with 2012.
A little bit of an uptick but not significant.
There's absolutely a significant amount of opportunity for us for builds throughout the globe.
In terms of the CapEx as you well know they do vary significantly by market in the United States.
They're kind of in the $250 000 range; to Latin America they're probably in the $175 000 range; to India they're in the $50 000 to $60 000 range; and in Africa they're probably in the $190 000 to $200 000 range.
The IRRs that we're looking for with regards to capital that we're spending in those markets is consistent with the IRRs that we're looking -- and to be consistent with when we're doing a deal.
So if you take a look at the United States we're looking at high single-digit kind of cost of capital; and in Latin America it's 300-plus basis points on top of that; in Asia it's 400 on top of that; and in Africa it's 500 to 1 000 depending upon the markets that we'd be looking on top to that.
And yes the IRRs on day 1 are generally higher than they are in the acquisition side.
And that's why it's kind of our -- after paying a dividend that's the first place that we like to put our capital.
Got it.
And can you give us an update on average tenants per site by -- for the different regions.
I mean in the international markets right now it's about 1.5x.
In the U.S.
market it's like 2.6x.
So overall it's about 2x.
In our Asian market it's up in the 1.7x kind of range.
In our African markets it's probably in the 1.4x range if you will getting into some of those markets with single-tenant towers out of the gate.
And in Latin America we picked up some single-tenant towers there and it's probably in the 1.5x.
And in Germany it's about -- the deal that we had just done it's in the 1.6 to 1.7x.
And your final question comes from the line of Rick Prentiss with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of parts.
If you think about the growth organic growth I think you mentioned that Clearwire DISH and FirstNet are not in the '13 guidance.
We've been hearing that Clearwire is starting to show up on their 2 000 5 000 8 000 build plans.
So I just want to confirm Clearwire is not in your guidance and could be some upside if they were to continue.
On the external growth side of the growth appetite for carriers to sell towers around the world you had a very successful year in 2012 adding them.
It sure feels like Latin American carriers are getting it as far as colocation and selling towers so just want to make sure we're right on that.
On straight-line adjustment pretty significant drop from '12 to '13 combining revenue and expense.
It looked like a negative 132 going to a negative 104.
Just want to make sure as we think forward into '14 '15 is it that same kind of level of drop that we should see? And quick one NOLs kind of what did we do from 2011 to 2012 NOLs.
Long laundry list but I don't think they're too complicated.
How many questions do you get to ask? Let me -- I did not write it all down so let me hit a couple of them and then you'll I'm sure fill in the pieces of ones that we haven't answered.
Relative to NOLs we spent probably -- we utilized just under $200 million in 2012.
I would expect 2013 to be somewhere between $200 million and $300 million of NOLs utilized.
So that was that question.
Relative to straight line as you said we had an uptick in 2012 of about $25 million about $30 million decline as you pointed out in 2013 and probably normalized going forward kind of a consistent level of decline given the contracts that we have in place and that will largely be offset by the cash escalators that we see going forward.
What else did you have on the list there Rick? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Organic growth Clearwire I think I heard it's not in the guidance but we're seeing them actually start to show up.
Just wondering why...
That's right.
It's not in the guidance and they currently represent a relatively small piece of our overall revenue.
If we see some meaningful uptick that would impact guidance we'll reflect it there.
But there is no really impact of any Clearwire activity in the guidance as we speak.
And finally I can give you a break Tom on the willingness of wireless carriers around the world to sell tower assets.
It's increasing.
On one hand it's not increasing across-the-board with every multinational coming to the same conclusion at the same time.
But we do believe that there will be opportunities and activity in pretty much every region that we're operating in and we will use our standard evaluation process to determine if any of those assets should trade to us.
And if we meet our criteria you'll see us act.
And if we don't you may not see a trade or someone else may get it.
But I do think it's something that many carriers are considering Rick but they also view it as important and strategic and that attitude moves over time and not necessarily instantly to sell.
I think that concludes our call this morning.
Again really appreciate the time you spent with us.
And to the extent that you have any follow-up calls please give Leah or myself a call.
Thanks again.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Derek and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I will now like to hand the call over to Ms.
Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Thank you Derrick.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investors tab on our website www.americantower.com.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our first quarter results then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2013.
And finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we’ll open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I’d like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2013 outlook and future operating performance including AFFO growth and dividend per share growth; our capital allocation strategy including our stock repurchase program and REIT distributions; and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the quarter ended December 31 2012 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our first quarter 2013 results.
During the quarter our Rental and Management business accounted for approximately 97% of our total revenue which were generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 13.7% to approximately $777 million from the first quarter of 2012.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 13.4% to approximately $524 million.
Operating income increased 9.2% to approximately $300 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $171 million or $0.43 per basic and diluted common share.
During the quarter in connection with the refinancing of our 1.75 billion securitization we recorded a $35 million loss on retirement of long-term obligation which includes the write-off of deferred financing fees and an early prepayment consideration.
In addition during the quarter we recorded unrealized non-cash gains of approximately $22 million due primarily to the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to our inter-company loan nominated in currencies other than the local currency.
For accounting purposes at the end of each quarter these loans are re-measured based on the actual FX rate from the last day of the quarter end.
As a result of the weaker U.S.
dollar as of March 31 2013 compared to December 31 2012 the re-measurement of these loans generated non-cash gains for accounting purposes.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah.
Good morning everyone.
As you can see from the results we released this morning 2013 is off to a strong start with solid growth across all our key metrics supported by continuing favorable demand trends across our entire global footprint.
As expected it was another very strong quarter and commenced new business in the U.S.
as carriers continue to invest heavily in initial 4G deployments.
We also experienced very positive leasing trends in our international operations as new spectrum is deployed and more advanced wireless services are extended to more and more people globally.
While we continued our operational momentum we nonetheless maintain our focus on enhancing the company's investment grade capital structure as he completed the refinancing of $1.75 billion securitization in March.
This refinancing decreased the weighted average cost of our secured debt by nearly 300 basis points.
If you will please turn to slide 6 you will see that for the first quarter our total Rental and Management revenue increased by nearly 14% to $777 million.
On a core basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations non-cash straight-line lease accounting and significant one-time items our consolidated Rental and Management revenue growth was over 20%.
Of this core growth nearly 10% was organic with a balance attributable to growth from new sites.
Our organic growth in the U.S.
continued to be driven primarily by amendment activity resulting from all four of the major carriers aggressively deploying 4G indicative of their phase 1 network deployment initiatives.
In fact while we have seen a substantial portion of our new business activity driven by amendments we’ve also seen the average rate per amendment more than double from a year-ago period as our customers begin to add more than just initial 4G capabilities to their networks.
As a result of this trend our signed new business in the U.S.
increased more than 60% from the year-ago period.
Meanwhile our international segment continues to provide compelling complimentary growth and during the quarter our international segment contributed over 60% of our consolidated core growth.
Our focus internationally continues to be around partnering with well capitalized global wireless service providers.
Turning to slide 7; during the first quarter our domestic Rental and Management segments revenue growth was driven primarily by an increase in recurring cash leasing revenue from our legacy properties partially offset by a $4 million year-over-year straight-line revenue decline.
Reported domestic revenue grew by nearly 6% to approximately $516 million.
This growth comparison with the prior-year period was impacted by two nonrecurring revenue generating items that occurred in Q1 of last year totaling nearly $16 million.
However domestic core revenue growth which adjusts for these items as well as straight-line revenue was about 11% or nearly $50 million.
Our domestic Rental and Management segment core organic revenue growth was approximately 8% in the quarter.
This growth continues to be generated by revenues primarily from existing lease upgrades or amendments from the big four carriers as they continue to overlay 4G technology across their existing networks.
For example we saw T-Mobile's new business activity increase nearly fivefold over the prior-year period as they ramped up their challenger  network modernization strategy.
Beyond the strong new business commitments I alluded to earlier signed new business in the quarter remained at elevated levels increasing over 60% versus the same period last year and we would expect most of these contracts to commence over the next year.
Given our application pipeline we expect these favorable leasing trends to continue for the rest of the year and into 2014.
At this point about 65% of the domestic new business included in our outlook is already in that pipeline.
The remainder of our core growth about 3% was generated from more than 1 000 new communication sites we've acquired or constructed in the U.S.
since the beginning of the first quarter of 2012 predominantly from the mid-sized acquisitions we closed at the end of last year.
Also for the quarter our domestic Rental and Management segment gross margin increased approximately $30 million or nearly 8% representing a year-over-year conversion rate of over 100%.
This conversion rate includes the benefits of our strong ongoing property level cost management program particularly with respect to our land rent expenses.
We continue to manage our land cost by proactively acquiring and extending leases and during the quarter we purchased over 100 parcels and extended more than 300 ground leases by an average of 26 years.
Over the last few years our acquisitions of land under our sites have reduced operating expense growth by several percentage points a year and we expect to remain active in purchasing land.
Lower straight-line rent expense and repairs and maintenance also contributed to the higher conversion rate.
So going forward we would expect recurring gross margin conversion rates more in the 80% to 85% range.
As you can see our U.S.
operating profit increased about 7% to over $400 million the margin was 78%.
Moving on to slide 8 during the quarter our international Rental and Management segment reported revenue increased 33% to $262 million.
International core revenue growth was over 40% and international core organic growth was nearly 15% which continued to be driven primarily by strong new lease commencement activity from tenants such as Telefónica Nextel International and America Móvil in Latin America Vodafone and MTN in South Africa as well as Bharti and IDEA cellular in India.
Commencement activity was particularly strong in Latin America during the quarter when we exceeded our internal plan by nearly 15%.
We also had a solid quarter of signed new business activity in our international operations particularly in South Africa where we saw year-over-year increase of over 200%.
Consistent with the last few quarters about 90% of our signed new business internationally was in the form of new leases rather than amendments as carriers augmented their networks and added new sites.
I do just want to note that we don't expect core organic growth in our international segment to remain at the 15% level going into next quarter; particularly since we recorded about $5 million non-runrate items in Q2 of 2012 due to a revenue reserve reversal for one of our customers in Mexico.
However we do still continue to expect to see international core organic growth rates of 200 to 300 basis points above that of the domestic segment for the full year.
During the quarter we constructed about 400 sites and acquired nearly 900 more continuing on our path to meaningfully increase the size of our portfolio.
We've added over 9 100 communication sites to our international portfolio since the beginning of the first quarter of 2012 contributing 27% to our international core growth and driving our international revenue to about 34% of our total consolidated rental and management revenues.
As we add new sites to our international portfolio our pass-through revenue continues to increase as we are able to share a portion of our operating cost with our tenants.
During the first quarter our international pass-through revenue was nearly $70 million which is up about 43% from the prior-year period.
From a reported gross margin perspective our international Rental and Management segment increased by about 28% year-over-year to $166 million reflecting a 56% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenue our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate would have been over 86% and 82% respectively.
Our international segment operating profit increased almost 29% to roughly $137 million.
Our international segment operating profit margin was 52% and excluding the impact of pass-through revenue exceeded 71%.
Turning to slide 9 our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the first quarter of 2012 was over 13% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter at nearly 20%.
Over 90% of our adjusted EBITDA core growth was attributable to our Rental and Management segment which generally represents recurring run rate contributions to EBITDA as opposed to the non-run rate nature of EBITDA generated by our services business.
Reported adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately $62 million in the quarter.
Of the approximately $31 million increase in direct expenses that impacted this growth $21 million was related to international pass-through costs.
SG&amp;A increased about $14 million from the prior-year period driven primarily by our international expansion initiatives as well as select investments we've made in our domestic business.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 65% as compared to approximately 66% in the prior-year period.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was about 72% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was nearly 73%.
Despite adding over 33 000 sites in the last five years many with single tenants on day one we've been able to maintain EBITDA margins in the 65% range which we believe is at a leadership level for the industry.
This is a reflection of both the disciplined cost controls we have implemented across the business and the strong organic growth that we have seen worldwide as both our legacy U.S.
portfolio and newer international sites have experienced significant lease up.
The strong EBITDA performance we saw in the quarter also translated in solid growth in adjusted funds from operations or AFFO which increased by approximately $32 million or almost 10% relative to AFFO in Q1 of 2012.
The AFFO increase was driven by the $62 million increase in adjusted EBITDA offset by increased cash interest and cash taxes.
Core AFFO grew nearly 21% and excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations one-time EBITDA contributions from customer settlements in the first quarter of 2012 and the tax refund received during the first quarter of 2012.
However here I want to clarify the basis of our AFFO comparisons.
We've adjusted our AFFO metric to exclude acquisition or new market launch startup capital expenditures in both periods.
This quarter startup CapEx was about $7 million as compared to about $2 million in the prior-year period.
We continue to target mid-teen core AFFO growth going forward as our business continues to generate strong recurring cash based returns.
Now moving on to slide 10 as we've highlighted in the past we are extremely focused on deploying capital while simultaneously increasing AFFO and return on invested capital.
And as you can see in the chart we believe that our investment discipline has created meaningful value for our shareholders.
Since 2007 we have invested over $12 billion in capital expenditures acquisitions stock repurchases and dividends adding more than 33 000 new sites and expanding into eight additional markets on three continents.
Concurrently we've consistently increased both our AFFO and AFFO per share on a mid-teen compounded annual basis.
In addition based on the investments we’ve made to-date; we expect to have increased our return on invested capital by nearly a 170 basis points to 10.7% by the end of the year.
We feel that we’re uniquely positioned to continue to deliver these types of sustained long-term returns utilizing the same discipline capital allocation strategy we’ve used in the past.
In addition to returning significant cash to our shareholders via our regular dividend distributions we seek to maximize our returns as we deploy capital for new builds and acquisitions worldwide.
With experienced development and operational teams in place we remain focused on strengthening and expanding our existing operations while also seeking new investment opportunities.
We believe that the strong AFFO growth in ROIC expansion resulting from these efforts coupled with a meaningful dividend will continue to provide a compelling return by shareholders.
Turning to slide 11 we deployed about $124 million in capital expenditures in the first quarter including $57 million on discretionary capital projects associated with the completion of the construction of over 450 sites globally.
Of these new builds about 50 were in the U.S.
with the remainder throughout our international markets.
The majority of our international new tower build were in India where we continue to build sites predominantly for large incumbent carriers like Bharti and Idea.
We continued our discretionary land purchase program in the U.S.
to secure additional interest under our existing tower sites.
In the first quarter we invested about $15 million to purchase land under our existing sites and as of the end of the quarter we owned or held long-term capital leases under 29% of our domestic sites.
Our first quarter 2013 spending on redevelopment capital expenditures which we incurred to accommodate additional tenants on our properties was $22 million.
Finally our capital improvements in corporate capital expenditures for the quarter came in at about $23 million.
In additional to these discretionary capital spending items as I mentioned we are introducing a new category of discretionary capital expenditures called startup capital projects to provide further transparency into our capital expenditure activity.
This capital specially relates to costs associated with either an acquisition or a new market launch.
We see this spending concentrated around initial 12 to 18 months after we launch a new market or close an acquisition and primarily consisting of capital projects as it's opening a new market office upgrading certain security and monitoring systems or structural capacity enhancements at newly acquired sites to meet our global standard requirements.
During the first quarter of 2013 spending on startup capital projects was about $17 million.
As we said on our Q4 earnings call for the year we expect spending on startup capital projects to be about $20 million.
From a total capital allocation perspective we deployed nearly $500 million during the first quarter including declaring a dividend of $0.26 per share or approximately $103 million about a $124 million on capital expenditures and about $245 million for acquisitions.
During the first quarter we added 22 communication sites through acquisitions in the U.S.
and nearly 900 communication sites internationally.
Finally during the quarter we spend over $12 million to repurchase about 160 000 shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
We continue to expect that we will manage the pacing of our stock repurchases based on market conditions and other relevant factors.
Moving on to slide 12 we are reaffirming the full-year 2013 outlook for rental and management segment revenue that we issued just two months ago on our fourth quarter earnings call.
In the U.S.
we continue to expect core organic revenue growth of over 7% for the year with our international operations expected to generate core organic growth of about 11%.
Consistent with historical practice we have not included any contributions from pending acquisitions in the outlook we are issuing today.
Should these transactions close during the year we will update our outlook accordingly.
And virtually should these transactions not come to provision consistent with prior periods we would expect to increase the pacing of our buyback activity.
We are also reaffirming our prior outlook for adjusted EBITDA due to the expected leasing trends I just spoke about as well as our continuing focus on property level cost controls.
We continue to leverage the co-location model to drive strong flow through from the top line to the EBITDA level and expect our rental and management segment to drive essentially 100% of adjusted EBITDA growth for the full-year.
Finally we are raising our full-year AFFO outlook at the midpoint by $60 million to account for the recurring impact of reduced interest expense we will incur as a result of the refinancing of our securitization in March at a weighted average interest rate of about 2.65%.
This transaction reduced the cost of our secured debt by nearly 300 basis points and illustrates our ability continue to access the capital markets at favorable rates to fund our global growth initiatives.
Additionally we had excluded the previously mentioned $20 million in startup capital expenditures we expect to incur during the year from our AFFO metric.
Turning to slide 13 the securitization refinancing that I just mentioned as well as our issuance of our $1 billion in senior unsecured notes in January and other recent debt market transactions have enabled us to significantly extend our debt maturity profile while reducing our cost of debt to further improve our best in class industry balance sheet.
As of the end of the quarter we had extended our average remaining term of our debt to nearly seven years while simultaneously decreasing our average effective interest rate to approximately 4.4%.
We continue to manage our leverage around the midpoint of our range of three to five times net debt to adjusted EBITDA and as of the end of the quarter we ere at about four times with liquidity of over $2 billion and our proven ability to opportunistically access the capital markets at favorable rates we feel we are very well positioned to continue to fund our global expansion initiatives.
And now on slide 14 and in summary so far this year we have been able to sustain our strong growth trajectory in our served markets while materially improving our already investment grade balance sheet both in terms of tenure and costs.
We continue to remain focused on capitalizing on the secular trends we’re seeing in the global wireless space and believe we are in excellent position to continue to expand our portfolio in operations while simultaneously growing recurring cash flows in support of our goal to double our AFFO per share over the next five years.
We remain very encouraged by the demand trends we are seeing across our global footprint and continue to expect carriers in 2013 to be more active than they were in 2012.
Further more given what we are seeing in terms of our application pipeline as well as the trends in wireless data we continue to expect the current demand environment to continue well beyond 2013 as carriers continue to prioritize network quality as a differentiating factor in their offerings.
We believe that our diverse portfolio of nearly 56 000 sites provides us with a unique ability to leverage these trends and drive meaningful incremental revenue and recurring cash flow for many years to come.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Jim.
Jr</strong> Thanks Tom and good morning everyone on the call.
American Tower’s solid financial performance in the first quarter reflects the gathering strength of advanced mobile network deployment in the U.S.
and around the world.
As Tom pointed out our company strategy is to leverage these domestic and global trends to both maximize the performance of our assets today and to position our company for an enhanced growth profile over a very long time horizon.
In our most advanced mobile communications market the U.S our major tenants are all currently in the midst of initial fourth generation technology deployments resulting in the addition of equipment to tens of thousands of transmission locations.
This technology known as 4G LTE provides for a very high broadband transmission rate to support rapidly growing wireless data and entertainment applications such as streaming video.
Moreover by adding incremental equipment and new cell sites to support broadband data and entertainment our customers are now beginning to look towards the deployment of voice over LTE also known as VoLTE.
Based on recent independent technical assessments that we’ve commissioned we now believe that VoLTE will result in significant network densification or cell splitting for coverage in suburban highway and rural areas.
I’ll elaborate on these findings a little later in my remarks.
But first I want to take a few moments to layout American Tower’s overall global strategy to provide the context for our technical analysis of the long-term impact of LTE data and VoLTE on mobile infrastructure.
Our strategic positioning in 11 countries on five continents enables us to benefit from three successive stages of wireless technology deployment around the world.
In the forefront are the advanced wireless markets such as the U.S.
and Germany where consumers have had access to 3G mobile technology for a number of years now and where carriers are experiencing significant data usage on their networks already including mobile ecommerce and bandwidth intensive screening video.
Mobile carriers in these countries are now in the process of deploying 4G to meet increasing demand and to grow their revenues.
A few years behind are the rapidly evolving wireless markets such as Mexico Brazil and South Africa where carriers are in earlier stages of wireless data network deployments while an ever increasing number of subscribers become engaged in intermediate mobile applications such as email and basic web browsing on their handsets.
In most of these countries 3G is still being deployed and planning is a part of process for initial introduction of 4G soon.
A few more years behind the front-edge of the technology deployment curve are emerging wireless markets like India and Ghana where reliable voice coverage is not yet universally available and wireless carriers are selectively beginning to make investments in third generation data networks at the moment.
This morning I'll focus primarily on what we currently see evolving in our core market the U.S.
which we think provides the further window into the future of mobile communications worldwide.
Ultimately we believe that the dramatic expansion and data usage that we're currently seeing in the U.S.
and the corresponding demand for tower space will be replicated across our other markets.
Consequently we expect to significantly elongate our Company's growth profile by discipline investing in these geographies and thereby establishing a leading position for independent commercial tower leasing in each of them.
In the U.S.
we're in the midst of a wireless data explosion and as we touched on in our fourth quarter call the projections for wireless data growth here over the next five years are through the roof with Cisco expecting mobile data traffic to increase tenfold over the next five years in the U.S.
Today we are seeing carriers attempt to meet the initial stages of this demand by deploying overlays of 4G LTE equipment across their existing networks introduced a relatively thin level of 4G coverage.
The four national mobile operators in the U.S.
are in the process of this initial phase of their LTE build programs.
Currently Verizon and AT&amp;T have stated their expectations of completing this initial phase 1 of nationwide LTE over the next 6 to 12 months.
Meanwhile Sprint and T-Mobile are aggressively ramping up their LTE deployments and it’s anticipated that they will complete phase 1 in 18 to 24 months.
Our experience in both 3G and 4G phase 1 deployments in the U.S.
has been a roughly 80 to 20 proportion of amendments to collocation new leasing revenue.
Therefore phase 1 LTE amendments have driven the strong organic growth we've reported in the U.S.
over the last several quarters.
However given that LTE handset penetration is currently below 10% in the United States phase 1 networks will simply not be able to keep pace with the volume of data that will be generated as more consumers switch to high bandwidth 4G handsets and tablets.
As this LTE device penetration increases and data usage exponentially also increases we believe that the carriers will shift from their initial coverage investments into phase 2 which will focus on both increasing network capacity and improving single quality of the outer ranges of existing cell sites.
Based on our recent technical analyses and review of third-party research and carrier public statements we expect the phase 2 will involve significant cell splitting and network densification and this activity will begin to ramp up over the next 12 months.
A major catalyst for phase 2 mobile operator network planning we believe will be the introduction of voice over LTE or VoLTE which I mentioned earlier.
We believe VoLTE is likely to necessitate further network densification even beyond data as we move forward and we think it represents significant opportunities for tower leasing as VoLTE is deployed.
Recent statements from our customers as such Verizon indicate that the first commercial deployments are scheduled to incur within the next year.
So what exactly is VoLTE and why does it appear to make sense for the carriers to deploy it given the incremental network density we think it will require? First and foremost the difference between traditional voice and VoLTE lies in the fact that rather than being circuit-switched to traditional voices VoLTE delivers voice in data package that move through the Internet similar to the way the existing networks deliver wireless data.
By utilizing VoLTE carriers can achieve increased efficiency regarding their wireless spectrum and also eventually reassign some of this spectrum to 4G data and entertainment services.
In addition VoLTE has the potential for improving handset battery life.
And finally for CDMA providers like Verizon VoLTE will allow simultaneous voice and data sessions on phones with the single chipset thereby improving the user experience while reducing device costs.
As a result of these benefits VoLTE seems to be a compelling investment for the carriers to free up some much needed spectrum and deliver a better experience to customers.
The question is then how does the migration from dedicated voice service to VoLTE impact towers? The answer lies within the fact that the packet switch nature of VoLTE is far more vulnerable to signal degradation than in pure data session using LTE or voice session that utilizes the old circuit-switch technology.
In a typical data session over LTE as a subscriber gets farther away from a cell site and closer to the cell edge he or she can usually handle some degree of signal degradation in the lower quality of service that you'll experience.
At this weakened signal area on the cell edge an Internet browsing or social networking section for example may be slowed down or paused as indicated by the little spinning icon that we all stare and frown at on our phones.
But the section usually does continue.
Conversely with a voice section over LTE the listener must continuously be able to comprehend what the person on the other line is saying in order for the session to be successful.
Only getting every other sentence or every other phrase just won't cut it for voice.
Therefore the quality of service requirement is elevated especially at the outer ranges of cell sites.
As a result to avoid garbled or dropped voice calls on VoLTE our independent estimate is that the effective radius of a given cell site could be reduced by 10% to 20%.
Consequently in order for carriers to effectively rollout VoLTE cell sites may well need to be closer together than they are in a network design for data only LTE.
The exact amount of further cell site identification to deliver high-quality VoLTE service depends on a number of factors including existing network layout and spectrum characteristics.
But our initial estimates indicate that networks may ultimately have to be up to 20% to 30% more dense than an already densified data-only LTE equivalent network.
As a result we anticipate that the implementation of VoLTE is likely to drive meaningful and incremental leasing revenue opportunities due to the strengthened signal coverage requirement at the cell edge.
This will be in addition to cells fully required to handle the elevated capacity needs of pervasive 4G data.
Moreover while 4G capacity requirements are likely to first be experienced in more densely populated urban environments and then move out into suburban and rural environments VoLTE-driven densification will stand all types of geographies immediately such as urban environments but also including suburban highway and rural areas where cell sites are further apart in towers predominately.
As VoLTE deployments coming into play concurrent with the carriers’ plans for data driven capacity builds we've continued to expect our core domestic business to show significant growth for a number of years to come.
This strong domestic growth outlook provides a solid foundation for our Company as we do generate about two thirds of our revenues from our 22 600 U.S.
towers.
But we are also energized about the unique opportunities we have in our international markets where we now have over $33 000 towers.
As I mentioned earlier we anticipate that over time the trends that we’re seeing in the U.S.
including 4G data and LTE voice will be replicated overseas first in rapidly evolving wireless market such as South Africa and Brazil and then in the several emerging markets in which we operate.
As we move towards the end of the current decade carriers in emerging markets are likely to be in phase 1 of the deployment of their own 4G network build outs which extends our visible growth trajectory based on known technology road maps far into the future.
And that is what our international strategy is all about.
Finally I wanted to take a moment to thank our investors and business partners for their messages of concern and support following the terrorist attack at the Boston Marathon.
Though our offices are just a block away from the scene we were very fortunate that none of our employees nor their family members were harmed.
We're thankful for that but also our thoughts go to those who suffered losses and we are grateful to all those who helped others in need from that difficult day.
Turning back to the matters in hand thanks to everyone for joining us on the call today.
And at this point we will ask the operator to open-up the line for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Jim thank you very much for the VoLTE discussion.
That was very helpful.
Question for Tom you’ve got some nice improvement in the AFFO this year.
Your leverage is coming down you’ve done some modest buybacks.
Can you just help us think about how you're thinking about that incremental dollar and in particularly around dividend policy you’ve obviously put out that long-term growth policy for dividends is there the ability perhaps to raise that growth rate and perhaps you'd update us on where the NOL balance is and how you expect that to play out over the next couple of years? Thanks.
Yeah.
Sure Simon.
I think we're really focused on the 20% compounded annual growth rates in dividends.
We think that provides a nice compelling accelerating growth over the next several years.
With regards to our NOLs I think I mentioned in the last call we ended the year with about $900 million of NOLs and we expect to use somewhere between $200 million and $300 million of NOLs this year.
I think that with regards to our capital structure as a mentioned we do have a number of things investments that we are looking kind of in the pipeline but as you all know those may not come to fruition and to the extent that they don’t then we’d increase as we did last year towards the end of the year the pacing of our buyback program.
We think that’s a good use of cash and we can keep some predictability to the growing dividend stream going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Prentiss with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
Thanks guys and our thoughts were definitely with you in Boston and glad you were okay.
First question if I may in your guidance which you left operational guidance unchanged can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing from Clearwire and have you started seeing anybody going over their MLA so far in the U.S.? With regards to Clearwire it's been exactly kind of what we expected Rick it's not a significant amount of activity going on there but again  that is really what we expected.
And with regards to the amount of business over and above the MLAs as you put it we are seeing activity on all of those carriers and as you'd expect and I think it's largely due to some of the things that Jim talked about not just in their initial 4G rollout for data but now we will start to see it with the rollout of VoLTE.
I think we will continue to see what we call additions to pay or revenue over and above that – those MLAs that we put in place.
So yeah all the carriers have been very aggressive and I think that's consistent with the increase in commenced revenue that we are seeing in the Q1 and the sizeable application pipeline.
Jr</strong> And just to add to that Rick it’s Jim.
There is no clear substance of significant Clearwire future of new business for this year in the guidance at all either so the point of exceeding MLA limits when we speak of holistic or comprehensive master  lease agreements we should all know that those are very tightly negotiated as far as what the equipment limits are how many sites you can be on at certain points in time even spectrum constraints that some of these deals have been included in them so we work with the carriers to help support their initial expectations of build out and as you can hear from some of the commentary really across all the sector calls that you’ve heard over the last week or so we’re seeing additional needs by the carriers to be based on their success in bringing 4G handsets into the population.
So that’s where the over and above comes from.
It’s that joint success between the carriers raising their revenues and operating profits through advanced data and our partnerships with them to support those network goals.
Inc.</strong> Makes good sense.
On the leverage question obviously you’re at four times the middle of your range if there was a large portfolio there has been obviously every couple of months speculation on a large U.S.
portfolio may be coming out what are your thoughts about taking leverage above your target range or issuing equity for a particularly large transaction? Well the good news with some of those types of – all those types of transactions they come along with a sizeable amount of cash flow right.
So over a period of time after the acquisition you have kind of the natural evolution back to more appropriate levels relative to your net debt-to-EBITDA.
But to the extent of the transaction as we have said in the past Rick it is strategic we will go above the five times but to the – but we know that the cash flow we will be able to bring it down naturally over the next kind of 6 to 12 months period after that.
To the extent that it goes up sizably over the five times and we think it is very strategic and very accretive to our business we think that our shareholders would also think that and yeah we’d use form of equity.
Inc.</strong> Makes sense.
Thanks Tom.
Thanks Jim.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan with Evercore Partners.
Jonathan (indiscernible) your line is open.
Operator let's take the next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Thanks guys.
Two questions.
Can you talk a little bit about the pricing trends in the market both here and more importantly internationally with the strong demand do you think you can maybe start to get higher pricing that you’ve got in the past and then secondly Tom maybe can you talk about the multiples in the private market have they changed much from where they were in the last few years I think they have kind of being running in the 20 21 times EBITDA range have you seen much change there? And I know that's post synergy type numbers.
Thanks.
Jr</strong> Tim I will take the first one.
This is Jim.
Pricing is relatively stable for new colos build-to-suit and amendments for the reason that we cited in the past which is the factors of production for the next best alternative to leasing a tower is building your own if you are a carrier.
Those factors  of production don't change that much.
So for a given unit of capacity whether it’s weight or wind load on the tower or ground space we have got pretty stable pricing and again the good news is the volume of those incremental units has been moving upward based on the success of 4G data deployments in the U.S.
and 3G and 2G in other markets.
And Tim just with regards to some of the transactions as you know we look at transactions on a ten-year DCF basis risk adjusted depending upon where it might be done.
But generally speaking in the international markets than in the Latin America they continue to be at kind of the 11 to 13 times kind of range.
In the U.S.
market yeah they are in the high teens 20 to 21 times rather and again it’s a function of where they are what kind of lease up we see potentially going forward after we’ve acquired the towers and as you well know we’ve turned down a number of transactions over the last 12 months where we didn’t see the kind of value that others thought it could be created.
It sounds like prices have been fairly stable on that market? Yeah I think it has.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
Great.
I just wanted to talk about the cell splitting.
If we think about some of your competitors this quarter they talked about how some of the new properties they've acquired in 2012 have been a source of cell splitting already so obviously the T-Mobile assets for Crown and the Mobility and Tower co-assets for SBA.
And you haven't really made that many meaningful acquisitions in the U.S.
market over the last at least 12 maybe 24 months.
And I'm just curious if you see as big of an opportunity for cell splitting particularly as it relates to your current portfolio or do you think that when you think about cell splitting going forward you're going to actually have to build a lot more towers to get that opportunity? Thanks.
Jr</strong> This is Jim.
We feel that our 22 600 towers that we bought and built mainly from original legacy 800 carriers are extremely well positioned for collocation and for future growth.
The issue around U.S.
M&amp;A is not the growth profile which I think all the towers communicatory is strong; it's on your investment decision-making process and the availability of investment opportunities beyond the U.S.
market.
So what we do regarding U.S.
mergers and acquisitions is we're very focused on the U.S.
market first of all as I said is three-thirds of our revenue as we did the first industry consolidation in the U.S.
with SpectraSite almost a decade ago.
But we also need to make sure that we meet our investment criteria and for U.S.
assets frankly we look at the current performance profile which we think we understand very well with our existing asset base.
We compare that to the characteristics of what may be on offer.
And if the price point for sale makes that whole equation work based on our investment criteria then we're going to go ahead and go through with the transaction.
When you see it not go through with such transactions that means that we think that we're better off frankly buying stock at those acquisition prices than going through with the deal.
So we do an apples-to-apples comparison of our tower base which is substantial versus what again maybe for sale and the purchase price of that if the math doesn’t work we'll keep the money spend it in other markets or as Tom said repurchase our own stock.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
Early on you made a comment about amendment rates increasing.
I don't know if that was a reference to on a unit basis or not but can you clarify why that would be the case if LTE has been kind of the source of amendment activities in the last several quarters? And then on Tom's comments about startup capital I'm wondering how those projects translate into kind of an end-stage G&amp;A expense level across your various regions what do we end up on kind of the G&amp;A expense side? Thanks.
Hi Jonathan it's Tom.
I think with regard to – remember what we're seeing now is that we are passed kind of – for so many of the carriers.
Some of that initial coverage rollout that the carriers were doing with regards to LTE and now we're starting to see more equipment being added to the towers the existing platforms to be able to handle some of the additional capacity requirements that they're now seeing as more handsets get out into the market.
So I think that's largely what's probably driving the increase in the amendment pricing per unit if you will.
The second question was relative to some of this startup CapEx.
As I mentioned we have $20 million of startup CapEx this year.
It's largely in our new markets obviously down in Colombia and over in Africa.
And like our SG&amp;A which we need to incur out of the gate to be able to support these markets I mean our strategy is to get denser and deeper into each of those existing markets.
So while our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was hovering around 10% this quarter we would expect that to come down over the next two to three years as we've been able to work into if you will those types of some costs.
And so we would expect over the next three years or so to get back down into kind of that 9% range if you will.
And again it's a function of us just getting deeper and into the markets and driving the densification on our towers.
LLC</strong> And then finally is there any update on progress towards reclassifying some of your international properties into more the REIT qualified income? Jr</strong> As we mentioned last quarter I believe we're going to be bringing Mexico into the REIT.
It will be effective in the first quarter.
That's the only one that we have planned bringing to the REIT at this point in time.
We'll continue to look at some of the other properties.
And that was largely driven by our ability to generate some cash tax savings in the local market.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi Investment.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Two questions.
First I was hoping you can talk a little bit about the opportunities for further refinancing and maybe where you think the average cost it gets you over the next couple of years assuming the rate environment were to be unchanged from its current form? And then secondly if you could talk a little bit about the DAS market in a little more detail in terms of the opportunities there whether you think it's time to get more aggressive on the outdoor side? Do you see any change in carrier behavior towards DAS just be curious for your feelings on that? Thanks.
Michael this is Tom.
On the debt front we still have two tranches of debt less than $1 billion I think in total that were put in place prior to our becoming investment grade and make (indiscernible) on those were pretty expensive.
Right now we've just got some indicative pricing yesterday I think still for a 10-year unsecured note we're still on that kind of 3.5% range.
We have driven down the two really I think the cost of borrowings I think our capital markets group have done an outstanding job in terms of driving that cost down and we'll continue to be opportunistic going forward and determining what kinds of products and what kinds of tenures we would look at.
But as you've seen our strategy is to continually look at longer tenures driving down the average cost of debt which better matches our fundamental master lease agreement rents and I think we've done a nice job over the past.
It's very difficult to say going forward where that – what that rate environment might look like.
Jr</strong> Mike its Jim.
Regarding the DAS or Distributed Antenna Systems we're actually I think still the leader in numbers of indoor and outdoor DAS venues combined it's about 300.
It was about 250 in the U.S.
and the balance outside U.S.
actually.
So we're actually globalizing that kind of business.
But again entry pricing is really important to us so we've decided that based on the characteristics of DAS asset performance over time that a build strategy is more appropriate for us versus a large acquisition strategy for a number of these existing venues.
And we actually have a partnership going into a couple of markets with major carriers to work together on these things as launch customers which then gives us the head start on leasing others up later because of the good locations that we can collaborate with our carriers on to get started.
So we're very interested in all this happening in the DAS business but we invest in it in the context of a very successful and well understood macro state business which is the core of the company.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Hi.
This is Richard for Phil.
Given the strong start to the first quarter in both domestic and international it's kind of hard to not move to the high end of guidance.
Is there some headwinds that we should be thinking about for the year or are you just staying conservative especially given the VoLTE comments which should probably help the back half of the year? Richard this is Tom.
We just released our guidance 60 days ago and we did increase guidance of our AFFO by $60 million.
So I think where we are we'll look at it in the second quarter and to the extent that there is a need for a change we'll make it then.
Jr</strong> And there are strong underlying trends as you pointed out.
And mid-year we'll look at everything including our currencies are landing and give you all an update.
Great.
And I guess can you give us a little more color on the generator business I guess that seem to have picked up and kind of what are you seeing there and what are the plans for that? That share generators are a nice adjacent business for us by less than a percent of revenue as we speak today.
But given the track record of storms and other issues that have been experienced in the U.S.
which is where we had that business predominantly we’re seeing increased demand for it.
So we’re again I think the early industry leader in share generator systems we have an extremely good relationship with one of the leading carriers and essentially seed us with opportunities.
We build those opportunities and they’ll lease them up.
So I think it will be again a nice adjacent business line for us as we move forward.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Jason Armstrong with Goldman Sachs.
Hey thanks good morning.
Couple of questions; first can you talk through what percent of your sites are on LTE at this point maybe what the pacing has been on that? And then maybe second just sort of bigger picture I guess it’s a philosophical question that what's the better credit environment for you to do deals the low rate environment seems like the obviously answer but low rate environment also means you’ve got a lot of competition for deals.
I’m wondering would a steeper rate actually benefit you guys enough that it may benefit you to wait for a larger deal because it may mean less competition and lower multiples.
Thanks.
Sure.
On the first question I would say probably 30% to 40% of our sites have some form of LTE technology sitting on them today and it varies by carrier as you would expect.
And I think with regards to the rate in environment it will vary by market.
What we are trying to do now is really to leverage the position that we have in each one of those markets.
And I think that gives us a very compelling positioning if you will in that market.
And there’s certain transactions that I’ve been told that we weren’t even the high bidder on but it was as a result of the people that we had in the market the capability and the skills of the people that we have in the market that really positioned us to be able to close those particular transactions.
And I think from a carrier perspective particularly from a CTO’s perspective they want to make sure that the assets are being put in the hands of people that can manage them maintain them and grow with them and support their further growth in wireless broadband.
So it's very difficult to say in terms of looking at kind of the interest rate environment and how that may play out as I said I think it's critical for us to be as disciplined as we have been on all of these transactions and being able to look at all of these investments on a risk adjusted basis.
I think that from a capital structure perspective we are uniquely positioned in terms of looking at our tenure and cost and so we could be in a better position than others.
But at the end of the day it's going to be a function of where we think the value is and what kind of value we think we can create from these transactions.
Hopefully that’s helpful.
Yeah.
Thanks Tom.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking the question.
And Jim thanks for the discussion about how you’re seeing that we’re poised to move from a period of mostly network overlays to densification and so I wanted to ask two follow-up questions on that.
The first is that when we start to see an increase in the deployment of new cell sites and I think we’ve already started to see a little bit of that in the industry.
That typically is beyond the scope of your MLAs.
So could you just help us understand what that means for your business from a revenue standpoint is it exclusively in enhancement to the organic revenue growth rate or do the MLAs actually have some step-downs in them or decelerators in them once the upgrade periods have been completed.
And then the second question is some of this densification will be accomplished through small cells.
Do you think you could maybe increase your investment there for example do you see any interesting opportunities in rooftops or WiFi? Jr</strong> Okay Brett let me start with generally how our major master lease agreements were.
By in large with some modest exceptions they don’t include new co-locations or global suites across these comprehensive agreements in general again with a few small exceptions.
And there is absolutely no decelerator based on the trend inside of each carrier of amendments versus co-locations.
So these are fixed escalators plus used rights over a period of X numbers of years that we have negotiated.
And within those used rights again for the existing base of contracts there’s some flexibility in there at which we’re getting paid for for the (indiscernible) so no decelerators whatsoever.
Getting back to small cells we’re again very aggressive on some traditional DAS.
The only difference between the newer small cell offerings in traditional DAS is that it's a mini base station instead of being fibered back to a central base station all via antennas.
That still leaves a couple of issues for either DAS or small cells.
First of all from a carrier perspective while your initial equipment cost maybe similar so a macro sites runs about $250 000 for OEM equipment today.
Small cells or DAS nodes could be sort of $25 000.
So if you do 6 to 10 cells small cell instead of a big macro cell your equipment cost is about the same.
That’s not the problem the problem is soft cost upfront much more expensive for either the tower company or the carrier itself to get the project zoned construct is building permits put in place legal costs and longer duration of actually getting these things approved.
And then the carrier faces higher operating cost afterwards.
And again not so much from the leasing side necessarily because I think the industry is pricing DAS leases up probably 100 or 200 basis points above the tower leases.
So it's actually a reasonable lease cost.
But the issues around DAS that I would suggest are for the carrier more on backhaul fiber connections or better to each of those kind of 10 cells versus one fiber connection to a tower and they have also got added utility costs.
There are more locations to the [truck rolls due] if anything goes wrong.
The switching costs are higher.
The storage costs in the back of the network are higher and the handoffs are tougher to engineer.
So from a carrier’s perspective the macro site tends to be again more of the priority and we're focused on that but we’re also focused on the complementary aspect of small cells.
And in the middle as you pointed out on rooftops we’ve got about 3 000 rooftops sort of on offer today.
We’re adding to those and getting some easements in place in other sites we don’t even have access to today.
So we’re active on all fronts I would say but we’re mindful that the carrier’s ongoing operating costs are higher with small cells and that they’ll be introduced in an appropriate rate in the appropriate geographies which tend to be pretty densely populated.
Okay thanks; and just to be clear is with regards to the first quarter.
If we were to see a continuation of new site deployments particularly into next year that is that’s incremental in other words we don’t have to ratchet down anything in the run rate from the MLAs? Jr</strong> Correct.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we have reached the allowed time for questions.
Are there any closing remarks? No I just want to thank everybody for joining us on the call.
And to the extent you have any questions or follow-ups please give us a holler.
Thank you.
And thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower second quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to pass this call over to your host Ms.
Leah Stearns vice president of investor relations and capital markets.
Ma’am you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our second quarter and year to date results then Tom Bartlett our executive vice president chief financial officer and treasurer will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2013.
And finally Jim Taiclet our chairman president and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2013 outlook and future operating performance and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2013 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to slide four of the presentation which provides a summary of our second quarter and year to date 2013 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for approximately 98% of our total revenues which were generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 15.7% to nearly $789 million from the second quarter of 2012.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 12.5% to approximately $524 million.
Operating income increased 15.6% to approximately $313 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $100 million or $0.25 per basic and diluted common share.
During the quarter we recorded unrealized net credit losses which negatively impacted net income attributable to American Tower Corporation of approximately $114 million or $0.28 which is due primarily to the translational impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to approximately $1.1 billion of intercompany loans which are denominated in currencies other than local currency.
We have utilized these loans to facilitate the funding of our international expansion initiative general operations.
For accounting purposes at the end of each quarter these loans are remeasured based on the actual foreign currency rate on the last day of the quarter end.
As a result of a stronger U.S.
dollar as of June 30 2013 relative to March 31 2013 the remeasurement of these loans generated noncash losses for accounting purposes.
Turning to our results for the first half of 2013 our rental and management revenue grew 14.7% to approximately $1.57 billion from the first half of 2012.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 12.9% to approximately $1.05 billion.
Operating income increased 12.4% to approximately $612 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $271 million or $0.69 per basic and $0.68 per diluted common share.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discussion our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah.
Good morning everyone.
As you can see from the results we released this morning we had another solid quarter with our core business once again outperforming internal expectations as our global customer base continues to rapidly invest in their networks.
Over the last few quarters we have seen the initial shift towards sales splitting take shape and new leasing activity in the U.S.
is picking up.
Meanwhile our international portfolio continues to see colocation activity in the form of new leasing as our customers seek to expand their network coverage and increase network capacity by utilizing our towers.
From a financing perspective during the quarter we refinanced our 2011 revolving credit facility reducing the draw and borrowing costs by over 40 basis points extending the maturity date by two years increasing our credit available under the facility to $1.5 billion while also providing us with the ability to draw in certain foreign currencies.
Towards the end of the quarter the translation of our international segment’s performance was impacted by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against many of our international market currencies.
This resulted in a headwind in the second quarter 2013 international rental and management revenue of approximately $7 million and adjusted EBITDA of approximately $3 million versus the rates assumed in our previously issued outlook.
We view the recent movements in foreign currency exchange rates as noncash translational impacts to our results as the cash flows we are generating offshore are substantially being reinvested into our markets to add additional scale to our existing portfolios.
As a result of these foreign currency exchange rate movements we have adjusted the assumptions implicit in our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Despite these headwinds which for the full year we expect will be roughly $40 million to revenue $20 million to adjusted EBITDA and $15 million to AFFO we are reiterating the midpoint of our 2013 outlook for our total rental and management segment revenue and raising the midpoint of our outlook for adjusted EBITDA and AFFO.
This is an indication of the strength we see in our underlying organic business and our confidence in the secular demand trends we are seeing throughout our global footprint.
If you please turn to slide six you’ll see that for the second quarter our total rental and management revenue increased by nearly 16% to $789 million.
On a core basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations noncash straight line lease accounting and significant one-time items our consolidated rental and management revenue growth was over 18%.
Of this core growth nearly 9% was organic with the balance attributable to growth from new sites.
As we mentioned last quarter the nonrecurrence of a $5 million revenue reserve reversal in Mexico from the second quarter of 2012 negatively impacted our core organic growth this quarter.
Adjusting for the impact of that discrete item our consolidated core organic growth would have been nearly 10%.
Our organic growth in the U.S.
continued to be driven primarily by amendments although as I mentioned earlier we began to see an increase in new leasing activity during the quarter from certain customers reflecting the beginning of a shift from coverage to capacity builds in certain geographies.
It’s important to note that we do expect the amendment cycle to remain strong as customers such as Sprint and T-Mobile continue to deploy LTE across their top markets.
In total our new business commitments in the U.S.
during the quarter increased by over 70% compared to the year ago period and the average amendment rate continued to exceed $700 per month reflecting a significant amount of new infrastructure which is being added by our customers.
Meanwhile our international segment posted yet another strong quarter of core business outperformance.
Continuing the trend from the first quarter our international operations drove over half of our consolidated core revenue growth and we saw a new business momentum throughout our international footprint.
Our international business continues to be a significant source of profitable growth for the company and the consistent long term returns we are generating throughout our global footprint remain compelling as the reach of wireless service continues to expand worldwide.
Turning to slide seven during the second quarter our domestic rental and management segment revenue growth was driven primarily by an increase in recurring cash leasing revenue from our legacy properties partially offset by a $4 million year over year straight line revenue decline.
Reported domestic revenue grew by about 10% to approximately $521 million.
Our domestic core revenue growth which adjusts for the impacts of straight line revenue was nearly 12% or about $52 million.
Our domestic rental and management segment core organic revenue growth was 8.8% in the quarter which exceeded our ongoing 6-8% core organic growth goal for the U.S.
This growth continues to be primarily generated from the big four carriers as they continue to overlay 4G technology across their networks.
This includes ongoing contributions from both AT&amp;T and Verizon and is now being augmented by significant increases in new business from both T-Mobile and Sprint as they continue their respective network modernization initiatives.
Domestic signed new business in the quarter also remained at elevated levels exceeding the year ago period by 60%.
We would expect the vast majority of these signed contracts to commence within the next 12 months or so and consistent with our commentary last quarter our application pipeline remains very robust and suggests that the favorable leasing trends we’ve seen so far this year should continue into 2014 supporting our outlook of core organic growth at nearly 8% in 2013.
The balance of our second quarter core growth in the U.S.
about 3% was generated from the more than 1 100 new communication sites we have acquired or constructed in the U.S.
since the beginning of the second quarter of last year.
Our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased over $40 million or 10.5% in the quarter representing a year over year conversion rate of over 85%.
This conversion rate is indicative of our strong ongoing property level cost management program including our land lease management initiatives.
We continue to proactively acquire and extend land leases under our sites during the quarter purchasing nearly 150 parcels and extending an additional 355 by an average of 29 years.
For the full year we continue to expect capital spending on land acquisitions of $95 million at the midpoint.
Finally as a result of our growth in gross margin in Q2 operating profit increased over 10% to nearly $402 million.
Moving on to slide eight during the quarter our international rental and management segment reported revenue increased 28% to $268 million.
International core revenue growth was nearly 32% and international core organic growth was about 9% which continued to be driven primarily by strong new lease commencement activity from tenants such as Telefonica Nextel International and America Movil in Latin America Vodafone and MTN in South Africa as well as Bharti and Idea Cellular in India.
As we had discussed last quarter our Q2 international core organic growth was negatively impacted by a revenue reserve reversal of about $5 million during the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding this discrete item the international segment generated 11.8% core organic growth which was about 300 basis points higher relative to the U.S.
as both of our rental and management segments continued to outperform our core organic growth expectations.
Continuing with the trend seen in the last few quarters about 90% of our assigned new business internationally was in the form of new leases rather than amendments as carriers augmented their networks by adding new platforms of equipment onto our existing sites.
For the full year we expect international core organic growth rates of over 12% which is roughly 400 basis points above that of our domestic segment and well ahead of our internal goal of at least 200-300 basis points above that of our domestic segment.
During the quarter we constructed more than 300 sites and acquired over 100 more allowing us to further expand our international presence.
We’ve added over 8 200 communications sites to our international portfolio since the beginning of the second quarter of 2012 contributing over 22% to our international core growth and driving our international revenues to 34% of our total consolidated rental and management revenues.
As we add new sites to our international portfolio our passthrough revenue continues to increase as we are able to share a portion of our operating costs with our tenants.
During the second quarter our international passthrough revenue was over $71 million which is up about 29% from the prior year period.
From a reported gross margin perspective our international rental and management segment increased by almost 25% year over year to $169 million reflecting a 56% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of the passthrough revenue our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate would have been 86% and 77% respectively.
Finally our international segment operating profit increased over 17% to roughly $137 million.
Our international segment operating profit margins was 51% and excluding the impact of passthrough revenue exceeded 69%.
Turning to slide nine our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the second quarter of 2012 was nearly 13% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter at nearly 15%.
Over 90% of our adjusted EBITDA core growth was attributable to our rental and management segment which generally represents recurring run rate contributions to EBITDA as opposed to the non-run rate nature of EBITDA generated by our services business.
Reported adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately $58 million in the quarter.
Of the approximately $33 million increase in direct expenses that impacted this growth $16 million was related to international passthrough costs.
SG&amp;A increased nearly $19 million from the prior year period driven primarily by our international expansion initiatives as well as selected investments we’ve made in our domestic business and several corporate initiatives.
In addition the nonrecurrence of a bad debt reversal from the year ago period in Mexico accounted for approximately $4 million of the increase.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was 65% as compared to approximately 67% in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of international passthrough revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was about 71% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was approximately 61%.
We continue to maintain industry leading adjusted EBITDA margins in the 65% range even with the addition of over 33 000 sites over the last five years many with just a single tenant day one.
As a result of our continued focus on driving colocation activity across our portfolio and the material conversion rate of revenue to adjusted EBITDA that occurs we are able to transform previously underutilized wireless infrastructure assets into profitable high-margin components of our overall portfolio.
The strong EBITDA performance we saw in the quarter also translated into solid growth in adjusted funds from operations or AFFO which increased by over $60 million or more than 19% relative to AFFO in Q2 of last year.
Core AFFO grew over 18% after excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and a $4.5 million nonrecurring tax refund received in one of our international operations during the second quarter.
We continue to target at least mid-teen core AFFO growth going forward as both our domestic and international operations continue to generate strong recurring cash based returns.
Turning to slide 10 we deployed about $157 million in capital expenditures in the second quarter including $73 million on discretionary capital projects associated with the completion of the construction of over 400 sites globally.
Of these new builds about 100 were in the U.S.
with the remainder throughout our international markets.
Our international new tower build for the quarter was split fairly evenly between Latin America India and Africa.
We continue our discretionary land purchase program in the U.S.
to secure additional interests under our existing tower sites.
In the second quarter we invested about $17 million to purchase land under our existing sites and as of the end of the quarter we owned or held long term capital leases under approximately 29% of our domestic sites.
Our second quarter 2013 spending on redevelopment capital expenditures which we incur to accommodate additional tenants on our properties was $23 million.
Our capital improvements and corporate capital expenditures for the quarter came in at about $35 million.
The increase in capital improvement and corporate capital spending was largely attributable to incremental investments we have made in IT infrastructure as well as a few capital improvement initiatives we have spoken about previously in the U.S.
including a lighting system upgrade and network operations center.
Finally we spent approximately $8 million on startup capital projects in Q2.
For the full year we currently expect to spend approximately $525 million to $625 million in total capex which reflects a slight reduction in discretionary capital projects related to a slower international build plan primarily in India.
We are now forecasting to add approximately 2 000 new sites to our portfolio in 2013 through our build to suit pipeline.
From a total capital allocation perspective year to date we have deployed over $900 million including our first and second quarter dividends of $0.26 and $0.27 per share or about $210 million; about $281 million on capex; and nearly $360 million for acquisitions.
During the second quarter we added 34 communications sites through acquisitions in the U.S.
and nearly 119 communication sites internationally.
Finally we have spent about $75 million to repurchase about a million shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
We continue to expect that we will manage the pacing of our stock repurchases based on market conditions and other relevant factors.
Moving on to slide 11 based on the continuing favorable demand trends we are seeing across our global footprint and the momentum in our core business we are reiterating our full year 2013 outlook for rental and management segment revenue of $3.16 billion to $3.21 billion.
We expect the underlying performance of our business globally will offset the negative impact of translational FX fluctuations at the rates implied in our guidance and as a result we now expect our core growth in rental and management revenue to be nearly 18% at the midpoint.
This robust leasing activity also translates into stronger core organic growth which we now expect will be over 8% in the U.S.
and over 12% in our international segment.
In addition to reiterating our rental and management segment revenue outlook we are increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $5 million at the midpoint.
We anticipate that the strong performance of our global business including stronger than planned organic growth and continued property level cost controls will allow us to more than offset the expected translational FX headwinds to EBITDA relative to our prior outlook which is driving our increase in core growth by 140 basis points.
We continue to leverage the colocation model to drive strong flow through from the top line to the EBITDA level and expect our rental and management segment to drive almost all of the adjusted EBITDA growth for the full year.
Finally we are also raising our full year AFFO outlook at the midpoint by $10 million.
This increase reflects the robust core performance of our business which is now expected to generate core AFFO growth of over 21%.
Irrespective of the translational FX impacts as mentioned previously we have now increased the midpoint of our AFFO outlook by $70 million or over 5% since we issued our initial 2013 guidance in February primarily from recurring cash flow sources.
If you’ll turning to slide 12 I want to provide some incremental color on the components of our revised outlook.
In terms of rental and management segment revenue we are reiterating the midpoint of our existing outlook despite our anticipation of about $40 million of translational FX headwinds relative to our prior outlook assumptions.
This is being driven by the core outperformance of both our domestic and international segments as well as approximately $4 million in incremental straight line revenue.
The core revenue outperformance in the U.S.
is attributable predominantly to stronger than anticipated new business commitments as our major customers continue to make progress in the 4G network buildouts.
Similarly in our international markets a significant portion of our expected core revenue growth is being driven by new business commitments.
In addition approximately $5 million of the increase is attributable to an incremental passthrough revenue we expect to receive in Africa due to higher ongoing fuel usage.
Overall we are raising our outlook for core rental and management segment revenue core growth by 1.4% to nearly 18%.
In addition we are raising the midpoint of our adjusted EBITDA outlook by $5 million which translates into core growth expectations of 16%.
We believe that the business outperformance I just mentioned will enable us to more than offset the forecasted $20 million adjusted EBITDA impact from unfavorable foreign currency translation.
Of note adjusting for the $5 million in incremental international passthrough revenue I mentioned earlier the international conversion ratio of core revenue to core adjusted EBITDA is expected to be nearly 80%.
In the U.S.
this conversion ratio is lower largely due to a one-time land rent benefit recorded in Q4 of last year.
In addition we anticipate an approximately $4 million contribution from the impacts of incremental straight line revenue to flow through to EBITDA.
The growth in core adjusted EBITDA that I just discussed combined with some favorability in expected cash taxes for the year has allowed us to raise the midpoint of our AFFO outlook by $10 million while raising our core AFFO growth projections for the year to over 21%.
The $10 million increase includes an incremental $5 million in corporate capex that we are spending to augment our IT systems in the U.S.
We believe that our ability to raise our outlook for adjusted EBITDA and AFFO even in the face of foreign currency translational headwinds clearly illustrates the strength of our core business.
Now moving on to slide 13 as we’ve highlighted in the past we remain focused on deploying capital while simultaneously increasing AFFO and return on invested capital.
And as you can see in the chart we believe that our investment discipline has created meaningful value for our shareholders.
Since 2007 we’ve invested over $12 billion in capex acquisitions stock repurchases and dividends adding more than 33 000 new sites and expanding into eight additional markets on three continents.
Concurrently we’ve consistently increased both our AFFO and AFFO per share on a midteen compounded annual basis.
In addition based on the investments we’ve made to date we expect to have increased our return on invested capital by nearly 200 basis points to 11% by the end of the year.
This sustained growth in AFFO and ROIC reflects the disciplined capital allocation strategy we have used in the past and will continue to utilize in the future to drive long term profitable growth.
In addition to returning significant cash to our shareholders via our regular dividend distributions we continue to seek to maximize our returns as we deploy capital for new builds and acquisitions worldwide.
Our extensive methodical investment evaluation process combined with our experienced development and operational teams across the globe provide us with a competitive advantage that we believe is unmatched in the industry and our track record of generating significant returns speaks for itself.
We are focusing our efforts on continuing to drive strong growth in AFFO and further improving our ROIC metric and believe our meaningful rapidly growing dividend in combination with our ability to grow the business will provide our shareholders with a compelling total return over the long term.
Turning to slide 14 I wanted to briefly talk about how we’ve seen our segment level return on invested capital metrics trend by segment since 2007 to highlight the underlying strength of our legacy business while also framing the opportunity we believe is embedded in our recently acquired assets.
Starting in our international segment as you can see in 2007 our legacy operations in Mexico and Brazil were generating ROIC of approximately 17%.
This was a reflection of the leasing momentum we had seen in those countries since the early 2000s and the value we added to the initial investments we made as a result of our ability to add new tenants to previously single tenant sites which we acquired from carriers such as Nextel International.
Since 2007 if you isolate those legacy international assets you can see that we have consistently grown ROIC on this portfolio which stands today at approximately 22%.
Over the same time period we have added over 30 000 sites to our international portfolio many of which like our legacy Mexican and Brazilian assets were initially single tenant sites acquired from carriers.
Further in 2010 2011 and 2012 the vast majority of our acquisitions were completed during the fourth quarter and as a result the end of year impact to return on invested capital was muted.
This illustrates the underlying thesis of our investment philosophy which seeks to acquire nonperforming tower assets from multinational wireless service providers and turn the properties into shared infrastructure solutions that can be leveraged by multiple tenants.
We believe that this growth will drive significant improvements in the cash generation characteristics of our recently acquired international assets and will drive a corresponding increase in the returns on invested capital into the future.
Turning to the U.S.
where we have not added new assets to the extent we have in our international markets you can clearly see the steady trajectory of ROIC improvements since 2007 once again reflecting our ability to drive meaningful organic cash flow growth on our assets over time.
Given the very high conversion of organic revenue into EBITDA and ultimately into operating cash flow we would expect to see this trend continue in the U.S.
Taken as a whole we think that these long term trends are extremely effective in communicating the way that we look at the business.
We have invested heavily over the last several years in less mature assets in rapidly growing wireless markets because we believe that the trends we have seen in Mexico and Brazil and the trends we have seen in the U.S.
will ultimately be replicated in other emerging markets.
The short term diluted impact on ROIC that these high growth investments have in our view pales in comparison to the long term potential for meaningful sustained cash flow growth that they should provide.
Finally on slide 15 and in summary our core business in American Tower continues to outperform our internal expectations.
The secular trends we are seeing in the global wireless sector continue to translate into robust demand for our tower space generating strong revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO growth.
As a global leader in communications infrastructure we believe that we are in an excellent position to continue to expand our portfolio and operations while simultaneously growing recurring cash flows in support of our goal of doubling our AFFO per share over the next five years.
The disciplined investments we have made throughout the world over the last decade continue to yield strong returns and provide a solid foundation for us to build on going forward.
In the U.S.
we are in what we believe is a compelling demand environment with all four major U.S.
carriers aggressively deploying 4G and the leader is starting to transition from the initial coverage build to cell splitting and infill activity.
In our international markets our large multinational carrier partners are also investing heavily in their networks to provide their customers with ever-advancing wireless technology solutions.
Taken as a whole we believe we are extremely well-positioned to continue to leverage our diversified asset base throughout the world to generate significant sustained long term returns for our shareholders.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Tom and good morning to everyone on the call.
During our first earnings call of the year back in February I outlined to you our aspirations to once again double American Tower’s key operating and financial metrics over the next five years.
We did and still do firmly believe that the rapid expansion of 4G mobile data and entertainment deployment in our core U.S.
market coupled with the advancement in our international markets through 2G 3G and onto 4G will support the midteens annual AFFO growth required for us to get there.
On the last call I identified the specific demand drivers that we are seeing in the United States that will play a critical role in the growth of our domestic business.
These include our customers’ 4G LTE network investment cycle where we are seeing carriers progress through the coverage buildout phase while simultaneously preparing to bolster network capacity as demand for data services continues to grow at a rapid pace.
As a quick update here’s our view on each of the four major U.S.
carriers’ network plans that we’re confident will drive the 6-8% core organic growth that we expect in our domestic business which still delivers 75% of our rental and management segment’s operating profit.
Verizon Wireless has completed its first phase LTE coverage build but it’s now increasing capacity by the deployment of AWS spectrum which will provide additional amendment revenue in addition to brand new cell site colocation leases that they’re deploying to densify their networks.
AT&amp;T Mobility continues to invest aggressively to achieve its coverage goals of 270 million people by the end of this year growing to 300 million by year-end 2014.
AT&amp;T is already engaged in site densification as well to support growing LTE adoption.
Sprint and T-Mobile are racing towards the 200 million population coverage milestone by the end of this year and we fully expect both companies to pursue wider and deeper coverage well beyond that.
Each of these carriers has recently secured financial and strategic successes that significantly strengthen their respective abilities to fund and implement competitive 4G networks in the United States.
Sprint now has access to the SoftBank funding and Clearwire spectrum and subscribers.
T-Mobile meanwhile has bolstered its own financial subscriber and spectrum positions through its merger with Metro PCS.
As a result it’s our view that the recent strategic activity between Sprint SoftBank and Clearwire and between T-Mobile and Metro PCS has significantly enhanced the prospects of having four very competitive mobile operators in the United States.
We anticipate that all four will continue driving toward nationwide 4G deployment which is very positive for our company.
Not only will the four leading mobile operators in the U.S.
seek to leverage consumer excitement around 4G to grow their revenues and profits to advance data and video utilization but they’re also evolving these new networks to carry high-quality voice traffic to more efficiently employ their valuable wireless spectrum.
This will be done by a voice over internet protocol technology using 4G LTE all better known as VoLTE.
Already Verizon is planning to roll out VoLTE beginning in 2014.
As you may recall we also spoke of the technological requirements of VoLTE on our last earnings call which we believe necessitates further cell site densification in the near to intermediate term and thereby elevates future demand for tower space for all four U.S.
carriers.
Since we focused on our U.S.
market environment on our previous call today I will devote most of my remarks to reviewing the strong performance of our international business which we believe is the perfect complement to our U.S.
operations.
We’ll cover the international segment’s legacy assets how these assets expand our company’s scale while diversifying our customer base and how our international markets will lengthen and strengthen the growth trajectory of our business.
We’ll also identify some of the key wireless network investment trends across our global markets that will underpin this continued growth.
As a quick FYI during our next earnings call I’ll provide our thoughts behind key wireless technology developments which we believe will further support long term growth across our business globally.
Turning to our international initiatives in 2006 soon after the integration our acquisition of SpectraSite in the U.S.
which was the first major domestic industry consolidation we began preparing the company to expand overseas beyond our established presence in Mexico and Brazil that Tom has talked about.
Importantly to compliment the senior management team we had in place at the time we added some new members with broad expertise and experience in global business development and operations.
Today each of my five direct reports as well as myself have run international operations for leading public companies.
And the four new executives that have joined us since 2006 bring the capabilities that they developed at large established multinationals including United Technologies Verizon Motorola and National Grid.
Each of my direct reports in turn have recruited their own senior teams of experienced management including both ex-pats and regional leaders from Latin America South Asia the U.K.
Germany and South Africa among other sources.
Of one thing I’m very certain.
We have the domestic and international talent base to redouble the size of the company over the next five years and to deliver on our performance targets both in the U.S.
and internationally.
So having established the global leadership team we embarked on an evaluation country by country to determine the areas of investment focus we would pursue.
This country selection process involved a rigorous market risk assessment including conducting due diligence on political legal regulatory and business environments as well as each country’s respective macroeconomic condition and forecast.
Special attention was and is paid to the tradition of rule of law in that country the track record of judicial independence and respect for property rights specifically with regard to existing foreign investments.
To confirm this we often actually interview U.S.
and European company executives that are already operating in these markets.
Further we evaluated the competitive characteristics of each target country’s wireless industry and we narrowed the list to where there were three or more wireless service providers a growing demand for voice and/or data services and a government which was actively making required spectrum available.
Finally we assessed various strategic entry strategies which typically consisted of either an asset purchase from an existing carrier and in most of these cases was an existing customer of ours in another market.
Each identified transaction opportunity is assessed to weigh its specific risks and relative to the assets of the counterparty and while being benchmarked for returns based on our expectations of future organic revenue growth.
This whole process is conducted and quantified using a 10-year discounted cash flow analysis with conservative risk adjusted target return hurdles which outside the United States are well above our domestic target returns.
As evidenced by our international customer base today we have strategically aligned ourselves with strong multinational wireless operators with solid financial foundations and we’ve leveraged these relationships across multiple countries and even regions.
For example we have purchased assets or have coinvestment projects and/or have significant commercial lease arrangements with the following multinational telecoms in addition to many others: Telefonica in Mexico Brazil Chile Colombia Peru and Germany; Vodafone in Germany South Africa Ghana India and the U.S.
via its substantial ownership position in Verizon Wireless; America Movil also in Mexico Brazil Chile Colombia and Peru and also in Germany through its part ownership of KPN; AT&amp;T in the U.S.
of course and indirectly those same five Latin American countries through AT&amp;T’s part ownership in America Movil; T-Mobile in the U.S.
and Germany; and Millicom in Colombia and Ghana.
And there’s many other examples.
The growth we’ve pursued across our international segment has enabled us to meaningfully increase our scale and global brand recognition while allowing us to diversify our market exposure and broaden our revenue sources with over 50% of our international tenants rated as investment grade.
We’re confident in our ability to successfully apply this thorough evaluation process to every international investment prospect and to effectively operate our business globally.
As a result of the international investments we’ve made over the last five years we’ve established a diverse portfolio of international properties which span 10 countries in various stages of the wireless technology cycle.
Our early stage markets include India Ghana and Uganda which are all primarily focused on bolstering the speed quality and coverage of voice networks while beginning to introduce data services.
Our transitional markets include five select countries in Latin America as well as South Africa which has extensive voice coverage and are ramping up their data network investments utilizing 3G and 4G.
And our advanced phase market is Germany which has seen the deployment of 3G for several years to address subscribers’ expanding data usage and where 4G deployments are now bringing greater speed and capability.
Next let’s review a few examples of how America Tower has executed on our international investment process looking at our legacy markets Mexico and Brazil and two of our newer markets South Africa and India.
I’d like to mention that the industry specific that I’ll periodically reference throughout these portions of my remarks are data points provided by our external technology advisors.
Let’s begin with those pioneering initial investments in Mexico and Brazil which we launched in 1999 and 2000.
As Tom illustrated earlier our pre-2000 eight legacy sites today generate the highest level of return on invested capital in the business at 22%.
Our Mexican and Brazilian legacy sites today have tenancy rates and generate revenue and profit margins per tower that are in excess of our assets in the U.S.
At the time of our international initial investments the wireless profiles of these countries were characterized by nascent voice penetration and initial 2G buildouts and they’ve evolved today to roughly 100% voice penetration as carriers shift their focus to early data network investments via 3G and 4G deployments.
So one might characterize that the wireless markets in Mexico and Brazil were and are about five years behind the U.S.
but on a similar network development trajectory as we have experienced here domestically.
Our portfolio has benefitted tremendously from these compelling secular growth trends as evidenced by the strong returns generated by our long-held towers in Mexico and Brazil.
The more recent transactions we have completed in Latin America are also generating solid performance for the business.
For example the portfolio we acquired from site sharing in Brazil in 2011 is seeing robust leasing activity.
Since integrating these sites into our portfolio just under two years ago on a currency neutral basis we have grown revenues by over 20% and EBITDA by over 15% on these assets.
Again all in less than two years.
Further we’ve increased the occupancy rate on these sites by over half a tenant which is higher than initial expectations.
Over the next several years we expect to continue benefitting from solid industry trends in Latin America as carriers in Brazil work toward building out 4G spectrum in advance of the 2014 World Cup and 2016 summer Olympics.
In both Mexico and Brazil mobile data is still early in the adoption phase while smartphone penetration in both markets was just 15% at the end of 2012.
It did grow rapidly though at a 67 per year annual pace.
Also RPU driven by data is approximately 23% for Brazil and 37% for Mexico compared to the U.S.
at just over 40%.
This signals that demand for more complex wireless services and sophisticated handsets is increasing as markets move down the technology curve over time.
We fully expect that this trend will result in robust and long term leasing activity across our asset base in Latin America and elsewhere around the world.
South Africa is our cornerstone country in Africa and another example of a key wireless market in transition from a focus on voice services to data services.
By year-end 2012 25% of RPUs there were data-driven and subscribers’ adoption of mobile internet remains on an upward trajectory.
Consumer trends are similar to when mobile email and web browsing started taking off in the U.S.
during the 2005 to 2007 timeframe back when Blackberry use here was on the rise and the original iPhone was introduced.
As overall internet usage continues to expand in South Africa we anticipate that the vast majority of this growth will continue to be captured in the mobile network given South Africa’s very low wireline penetration of 9%.
Already the strong subscriber ramp up in data is fueling significant need by the carriers to invest in 3G capacity builds.
MTN and Vodacom for example have recently reported plans to increase their 3G deployment activity.
This is resulting in leasing activity across our South African sites well in excess of our original expectation.
Our acquisition of towers from Cell C which represented our launch into South Africa is a prime example of this success.
Upon acquisition the portfolio had on average just over one tenant equivalent per tower.
Within just three years of integrating these assets we have grown the occupancy rate to nearly two tenant equivalents per tower and today are generating return on invested capital of approximately 20% in local currency.
It has been through our disciplined approach to identifying and evaluating investments like this that’s enabled us to achieve these types of results.
However we believe we still have substantial upside to grow in South Africa.
Today smartphone penetration is only 20% so there’s significant upside to data adoption as handsets become cheaper and more accessible for those consumers.
Further down the road we view LTE deployments as a longer term growth driver in the South Africa market and anticipate that carriers will largely use the spectrum they have been allocated to provide more advanced services such as mobile video.
South Africa like our other transitional markets in Latin America therefore represent another opportunity to elongate our growth profile by 5 to 10 years beyond what we were seeing domestically.
Lastly let’s turn to one of our early days wireless markets India.
In this nation of nearly 1.2 billion people subscriber trends continue to be marked by rapid growing voice penetration.
At the end of 2012 wireless subscriptions in India were at 75% which represented a 33% compounded annual growth rate since ’07 and only 16% of the RPUs from these folks were generated from data usage.
We estimate that today’s stage of wireless network investment in India would be equivalent to what we saw in the U.S.
around 10 years ago.
And due to the lack of wireline infrastructure wireless communications is the first and only mode of communications available for a large portion of this population.
So back in the mid-2000s as we assessed the investment opportunity India presented these long term subscriber trends stood out to us as being compelling for the tower colocation model.
We want to participate in the evolution of these trends which we believe complimented our market exposures in Mexico and Brazil.
However at that time asset valuations for portfolios in the market were notably higher than our investment process supported.
As a result we opted to launch our Indian operations not through an acquisition but through a massive power construction program primarily with the large incumbent carrier.
We then proceeded to increase our scale in India through M&amp;A only when the asset prices moderated and met our investment criteria.
Furthermore with our long term perspective we strategically aligned ourselves with the incumbent well-capitalized players in that market with the belief that the wireless industry would and it did see consolidation of the smaller operators.
Our Indian assets have experienced strong leasing with relatively low churn and today average nearly 2 tenants per tower resulting from the robust secular growth trends across the region and our focus on those major national operators.
Recently carriers have made notable efforts to stimulate further 3G subscriber penetration in India.
In mid-2012 for example most of the large incumbent carriers cut data service pricing to promote 3G update.
Overall consumer internet penetration wireless and wired across the country is only at 10% and we believe that this demand will grow rapidly with the vast majority of people getting online by the mobile network.
We therefore view the Indian market as a long term growth investment.
In conclusion we believe we are extremely well-positioned to deliver strong operational results from both our domestic U.S.
segment and our international segment over many years.
We believe the investments we’ve made and our commitment to doing business with integrity everywhere will enable us to meet our goal of doubling AFFO per share over the next five years.
Further as demonstrated by the success of our current legacy international portfolio assets which generate approximately 600 basis points of incremental return on invested capital versus our legacy domestic assets we believe we’re being prudent in our assessment of risk adjusted hurdle rates the prices we’re willing to pay for assets in the U.S.
and abroad and our overall deployment of capital.
And with that operator can you please open the call for questions? [Operator instructions.] Your first question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for that deep dive on your international.
I think that was very helpful.
Sort of along those lines you have been a little less active this year in terms of acquiring portfolios.
I know you’ve done some deals but still below your recent run rate.
You have a huge liquidity position.
I was hoping you could share with us some thoughts on the opportunities you see out there both domestically and internationally and if you don’t identify an attractive deal soon what other types of options do you have for that cash? The pipeline continues to be incredibly busy.
As you know we have a very disciplined investment approach and while we’ve closed on a couple hundred towers if you will in Q2 we’ve passed on many opportunities just because they didn’t meet our investment hurdles.
But I can assure you that there is a significant pipeline globally in just about every market that we’re represented.
To the extent that those don’t pan out as we’ve done in the past and will continue to use is our buyback program.
We have just over a billion dollars of buyback available under the plan that the board put in place just a couple of years ago and so as we did this past quarter we increased the pacing of that buyback and to the extent that opportunities that meet our hurdles don’t pan out over the balance of the year we’ll continue to use that as a means of returning capital back to shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Prentiss with Raymond James.
You reduced the tower build program primarily in India.
Can you talk a little bit about what’s going on there in particular in regard to Jim’s comments? And then as you look at the transactions internationally buying a portfolio versus building how do you think about the price per tower necessarily? Is it a premium to the build cost? And kind of how that relates.
Our tower build program especially in India in our original budget submissions was very aggressive and we recognize that here but we wanted to make sure if there was that much opportunity in the market to build sites this year that did again meet in each particular individual case our hurdle rates there.
We wanted to make sure we had the capital to do it.
And so just based on carrier budgets and timing and schedules it wasn’t as aggressively deployed as far as new builds as we thought.
And by the way the colocation business did quite well so far in India as an aside to that.
So we definitely budgeted more than we ever had for India to build towers.
The team was very aggressive and kind of overshot frankly.
So we’re scaling back the guidance a little bit in that regard.
When it comes to build versus buy price per tower is a derivative outcome of our investment process.
And as you know whether it’s one tower or 10 000 we use the same model framework.
So a price per tower is going to depend on build costs it’s going to depend on how many customers we think we can get on it and over how long a period.
What’s the amount of equipment and therefore rent that the first customers signing up to pay? There’s a host of inputs that go into whether we’re going to decide to build a tower or not.
And the two things that fall out of our 10-year DCF whether it’s one tower or 10 000 are what was the multiple of cash flow and what was the price per tower? So those things are derivative answers from an investment processes that’s going on a 10-year DCF.
In rough prices the build in the different regions is it still kind of 60-ish in India 150-ish in Latin America? Or just kind of broad build costs? Yeah about $50 000 in the U.S.
depending on whether it’s a rooftop or whether it’s a ground-based tower to $150 000-ish down in Latin America $250 000 if you will in the U.S.
And in Africa in kind of that $150 000 range.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about cash that you receive on a prepaid basis for capital reimbursement.
And maybe you can give us a sense of what kind of number that is on an annual basis.
And then also how much of the amortization related to those cash payments do you see in your revenue or in your AFFO on an annual basis? We actually have additional disclosure in our release that you can probably point to.
It’s actually on page 12 of the release.
We talk about the balances on year over year balance and you can see that our beginning balance actually was quite a bit higher than last year largely due to bringing on some new markets and the fact in Germany we get a lot of the cash actually up front.
You can see the cash component of it that we actually received in the quarter was about $18 million.
But what we actually run through the P&amp;L is what runs through AFFO which is about $14 million.
And you can see for the first six months in 2013 the delta’s about $18 million.
So we received cash of about $45 million but we amortized that over the balance of that lease as GAAP tells us to do and so we amortized about $27 million and that’s in essence what runs through our P&amp;L and our AFFO.
Was that the question? Yeah that’s actually very helpful disclosures with that detail.
And can you just review for us how you think the fair way is to present these types of numbers within the AFFO or what the practice is from your research into when you looked at other REITs and other companies that try to define AFFO what you think the most fair practice is? I think what we’re trying to do is present what the recurring cash flow nature is of our business.
And I think the way that we reflect it is what runs through the P&amp;L runs through AFFO is the way we should be looking at it to give our investors a notion of what they should expect to be on a recurring basis.
And so we think that this is the appropriate way of disclosing this type of an event.
Just to cap it it’s consistent through revenue EBITDA and AFFO for us.
It’s all treated on an amortized fashion.
We think that’s the right way to go.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Jim when we get through the amendment process here and we start seeing more cell splitting what do you think that means for overall revenue growth? Because you’re obviously growing at a really healthy pace at this point.
And then secondly is there much variance in what customers pay you internationally for collocating on your cell sites? Maybe the original tenant pays more or less than what you think the market rates are? Or is it just fairly even? Whether it’s amendments or new colocations via cell splitting the way we view the market is that it all flows from subscriber demand and the population for paying more for advanced mobile services.
And we see that happening everywhere around the world.
It’s most prominent and obvious here in the United States.
That subscriber demand then flows through to revenue and cash flow to the carriers which makes them feel comfortable investing at the levels that they have been over the last few years.
You know collectively among the big carriers $20-plus billion a year.
There’s so much on the network side.
There’s so many projects amendments new sites that the engineers want.
There’s plenty of things to spend money on.
I look at it as a cash supply and demand.
There’s plenty of demand from the engineers to put more cell sites in to put more equipment out there to improve their network.
And will the investor base of the carriers support the cash supply to do that.
We see that happening and therefore we think the overall run rate that you’re seeing today whether it’s the mix of amendments and colo changes the supply of cash is going to be similar over the next three or four years to roll these networks out and so we think our demand is going to be similar.
So it may result in a different amendment split for us but I think the overall area under the demand curve for leasing activity is going to come out very similar in cash terms.
And on the second part of the question as you would expect the rental rates are going to largely be from the carrier’s perspective based upon the divested capital to actually build the tower.
So if you take a look at our average rates which have continually been trending positive if you look at the United States our average rates on a rental basis are in the $2 500 range.
Going down to Mexico and Brazil they’re in the couple thousand dollar range.
Ghana’s a little bit higher.
South Africa is in that range.
And India which you would expect where the tower costs us $50 000 to build the rental rates in India are in the $500 to $600 range.
So it’s reflective of the ROI from the carrier’s perspective and they do vary in each of the markets depending upon the level of investment that it takes to build the tower.
Your next question comes from the line of David Barden of Bank of America.
Just a couple on FX.
I guess the first question would be just confirming Tom that the revenue guidance midpoint off of the first quarter currency expectations would have been $40 million higher but for the change in the expectations for forex that we’re making this year.
That’s exactly right.
So I guess two questions then.
One is with respect to the rates that you’re choosing to guide to now can you walk us through how you come to those expectations? For instance why is a 2.2 real the right number if the spot rate’s 2.9? And then the second question is walk us again through the thinking on hedging or not hedging and why not hedging is the right choice.
With regard to the selection of the points we’ve used a process since I got here a consistent process right from the beginning.
And we look at Bloomberg [unintelligible] for the balance of the year which is an average the number of the banks and use that rate as a rate and disclose it as it’s disclosed on page 4 of our release to give investors the transparency in terms of what we’ve selected.
So we’ve said for the second half of the year you picked [RAI] of being 2.2.
And so there’s a consistent process that we’ve used.
People can use different rates if they would like but we think that this is a process that’s been consistent and is appropriate.
And as a result it results in that $40 million of headwinds at the rental and management revenue level.
With regard to hedging as you well know we don’t currently actively hedge our international FX exposure on a material basis.
We do hedge specific transactions and have done in the past if we’ve had cash going out the door on a specific date and wanted to lock in an attractive exchange rate at a local time.
Given virtually all of our international revenue operating expenses and SG&amp;A are denominated in local currency we’ve got an implicit operational hedge in place without actually entering into any specific hedging transaction.
As you know substantially all of the cash generated by our foreign operations is reinvested right back into those same markets so hedging that cash flow has not made much sense to us at this point particularly in light of the costs involved.
Translational hedging is really just cost prohibitive.
And so since we’re not repatriating any meaningful cash from our international operations to the U.S.
if we were to hedge we would essentially be sending real cash out the door in order to hedge strictly translational FX impacts which generally has not made sense to us given those costs.
And so if we do reach a point in the future where we’re actually repatriating substantial amounts of international cash back to the U.S.
it may make some sense to reevaluate our hedging strategies at that time.
But in the meantime we’re constantly evaluating potential hedging opportunities but would not expect to hedge our international operations material for the time being.
Your next question comes from the line of Batya Levi with UBS.
A question on the U.S.
You mentioned organic growth of about 8.5% for this year exceeding your target.
Can you talk a little bit about if that includes any increased activity from Clearwire? And also looking out to ’14 you do expect leasing activity to remain strong.
How should we think about how that translates to organic growth for next year? Relative to Clearwire not meaningful candidly.
A little bit of an uptick so far but I wouldn’t say they’re a meaningful contributor to the 8.5% growth.
And as I mentioned before in my remarks significant new signed activity in the quarter.
We would expect that to be commenced if you will over the next 12 months.
We’ve consistently said our goal is the 6% to 8%.
We’re quite a bit over that if you will for 2013 and hopefully we’ll see some of those similar trends in 2014.
But it’s really too early to kind of tell at this point in terms of where that might be in the curve but I think we’re seeing some really positive signs in the U.S.
market.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
First you gave us a lot of great color in terms of the uptick in new lease activity.
And I was just wondering if maybe you could give us some additional detail on whether this is incremental to the amendment activity or whether this is a shift in demand.
And maybe in that give us the breakdown of activity between new cell sites and amendments.
And then secondly we’ve gotten a lot of questions about what it’s going to mean for the tower companies.
Sprint defines a higher capex plan and potentially comes out with a network vision too if you will.
And just wanted to get a sense as to given your MLA being different from some of your partners under what scenarios will you benefit from an uptick in spending from Sprint.
Speaking first to new lease activity and how it is incremental to our MLA run rate these master lease agreements we have with three of the four national carriers are very well defined when it comes to how many sites can be used in most cases how much equipment can be on a single platform how much vertical space you can operate on and ground space if you’re a carrier and spectrum-constrained.
So going over and above any of those parameters results in what we call additions to pay beyond what we call the holistic use right of doing some amendments within those boundaries.
And so there is a significant proportion of our new business now that’s coming from these additions to pay because carriers are needing more equipment.
Sometimes they’re needing two transmission elevations on the tower.
Sometimes they’re needing more ground space.
So all these things are outside of the parameters and therefore they result in additions to pay which in the U.S.
have been significant for us.
In addition to that most of these agreements don’t have any provisions for new colocations and none of them have any provisions for build to suit sites.
We’re one of the most prolific builders in the United States of new towers right now and of [DAS] systems and so those are outside of these agreements.
And any acquisitions we do in the United States are also outside these agreements.
So there’s a complete portfolio of addition to pay opportunities I guess I’d call them and we’re seeing a lot of that now.
The split in the U.S.
currently is 70% amendments and 30% otherwise.
Again colocations new build to suits [DAS] installations things like that.
So that’s really where we get the turbocharger on these master lease agreements through that structure and those additions to pay.
Secondly when it comes to Sprint I think it’s always important for us to lead off to say we have zero Nextel related churn risk with Sprint.
And that is because in the holistic agreement we’ve put together with them we gave them some more flexibility on CDMA and ultimately 4G and network vision to prevent any churn with the Nextel equipment and [prices] were going to come down which they are as they are as we speak.
That agreement had limitations as well and there are some additions to pay with the Sprint agreement.
As far as network vision two again there’s a limitation on total number of sites which if exceeded will be completely outside this agreement.
So we think there is some upside to us with SoftBank funding and with Clearwire’s spectrum being able to be controlled by Sprint.
Your next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen.
There’s been a lot of change in who owns what spectrum certainly recently in some deals that have been done but also carriers now just deploying spectrum that they’ve been holding on to.
Can you just remind us as carriers start to deploy new spectrum - so Verizon for example deploying AWS - how that could potentially benefit you especially in consideration of the MLAs that you have? It has a very direct benefit especially in the case that you cite which is Verizon AWS.
So let me step back for just a second.
We think the two most important things going on in the U.S.
market right now is this ability for carriers to have the financial foundations to deploy national 4G competitive networks and also to have the spectrum that enables them to actually do that in a quality way.
So when spectrum gets in the right hands so to speak to someone that can actually put it out there in the field and install equipment on towers that’s going to benefit our industry.
And AWS spectrum that Verizon has secured is an excellent example of that.
When it comes to our agreements we tend again to have spectrum limitations or definitions around what could be on the tower but more importantly almost all that new spectrum tends to come with additional equipment because you don’t necessarily want to dilute your existing transmission operation to add the spectrum which would be counterproductive.
So carriers often add equipment to bolster their ability to transmit.
And so in the case of AWS there’s sort of an amendment standard of bill of materials that Verizon tends to put on for an AWS upgrade if you will.
We have rates by region of the country for those and that is complete additional amendment revenue for us with our arrangement in that particular case.
Your next question comes from the line of Imari Love with Morningstar.
Just wanted to touch back internationally on zoning restrictions ground leasing dynamics access to licensing.
If you can just speak to maybe just on a high level things getting on the margin easier to make moves build in acquisitions internationally specifically in Latin America.
Or are things starting to get a little tighter from maybe a regulatory backdrop perspective? Broadly zoning and permitting restrictions are increasing in difficulty in every market at a different pace but they’re increasing everywhere.
But also I think it’s important to reiterate that zoning is not what makes a franchise tower.
What makes a franchise tower is the economic disincentive to build next to to an existing site because the existing site is able to capture on its own within its territory all of the license holders in that location.
So if there are five license holders and we have a tower there we’ve got five potential customers.
For someone to build next to us once we’re already up and running and have say a couple of those customer already on is economically foolish.
Because we’ve already got two of the five customers and then in theory they’d be splitting the opportunity for the rest and so no one really does that in any market.
Rationality has come to all of the competitive tower markets that we operate in.
And so the biggest disincentive to someone building near your tower and sort of damaging the franchise potentially is an economic incentive that is universal.
If you add to that the zoning restrictions which are difficult and getting more difficult especially in places like Chile and Brazil Mexico South Africa Ghana is very tough right now India’s increasing.
So municipalities are sort of enhancing our franchise value kind of as we speak.
But the main franchise protector is economic.
Your final question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
I was wondering about the property level cost control that you mentioned that contributed to the EBITDA raise and what was that and where was that which market? And then wondered about Latin America.
It sounds like your new tower builds are [unintelligible] towards Mexico.
What’s driving that? And is Mexico still going to be where you do the preponderance of your new builds in that region? On the first one it’s largely in the U.S.
As we have done historically we continue to either extend leasing contracts with landlords or buying towers.
Last year we effected about a thousand parcels.
We have effected roughly a thousand parcels in just the first half of this year and the goal for our U.S.
tower team is 2 000 parcels.
And they just assured me that they’re going to hit that number.
So it’s largely just a function of buying parcels where it makes sense and extending them where the landlord is not interested in selling.
He just wants to go back out on a renewal.
And the other element globally is we are becoming I think quite capable in fuel management in the markets where we have to deal with that.
And so you can actually drive down fuel costs put in programmatic power contracts with your customers where there’s actually some profitable upside.
A little bit of profitable upside sometimes.
But we’re getting very good at fuel management and that’s helping us to manage our costs.
And from 2007 to 2012 land lease expense as a percentage of domestic rental revenues continued to decline from about 16% to 13% illustrating that our revenue growth significantly outpaced any increase in our land expense.
And when it comes to construction this is one of the things we’re proud of in the company.
We built 400 sites last quarter.
Almost 100 of those were in the U.S.
by the way just last quarter.
Mexico was actually fourth frankly behind India and one of our African markets.
There’s 48 towers built in Mexico much of that driven by just the transition as we’ve talked about from a strong 2G network to a much stronger 3G network that can deliver data.
There’s density requirements especially in regard to spectrum that’s being deployed that need to be addressed and so tower building is helping with that.
Thanks everybody.
I really appreciate all of your ongoing support and to the extent that you have any further questions Leah and I are both here for you.
So thanks again Good morning.
My name is Tekitria and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower third quarter 2013 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our third quarter and year-to-date results then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President CFO and Treasurer will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2013.
And finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this will call contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2013 outlook and future operating performance including AFFO growth and dividend per share growth our pending acquisitions and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2013 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our third quarter and year-to-date 2013 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for approximately 99% of our total revenues which were generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 14.2% to approximately $797 million.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 13.9% to approximately $528 million.
Operating income increased 4.5% to approximately $309 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation declined to approximately $180 million or $0.46 per basic and $0.45 per diluted common share.
The decline was primarily related to unrealized non-cash losses attributable to our intercompany loans.
Turning to our year-to-date 2013 results.
Our rental and management revenue grew 14.5% to over $2.36 billion.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA increased 13.3% to nearly $1.58 billion.
Operating income increased 9.6% to approximately $921 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $451 million or $1.14 per basic and $1.13 per diluted common share.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss the results in more detail.
Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
Our team has delivered another solid quarter results in Q3 which was a direct result of nearly 11% core organic revenue growth generated on our existing properties.
Over the last year we've also added just under 8 000 tower sites across our global footprint driving an additional 8% of revenue growth.
During the quarter we also announced two acquisitions which will expand our portfolio of properties across the U.S.
Mexico and Brazil.
We completed our acquisition of GTP on October 1 which included over 5 000 tower sites in the U.S.
a well-positioned network of managed rooftops and an established presence in Central America.
In Latin America our acquisition of sites from Nextel International is expected to close during the fourth quarter and deepens our scale in the rapidly growing Mexican and Brazilian wireless markets.
We continue to experience excellent organic growth overseas and anticipate these sites will positions us well.
We believe that our legacy businesses strong organic growth coupled with these acquisitions will position us to continue to deliver significant value to our shareholders in 2014 and beyond.
If you please turn to Slide 6 our total rental and management revenue in the quarter increased by over 14% to $797 million.
On a core basis which we'll reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations non-cash straight-line lease accounting and significant one-time items our total rental and management revenue growth was over 18%.
Of this core growth nearly 11% was organic with the balance attributable to new sites.
Our organic revenue growth in the U.S.
continue to be driven primarily by our tenants network investments largely in the form of lease amendments.
We anticipate that over the next 12 to 18 months our tenants will gradually shift their focus from coverage to capacity-driven network investments leading to an increase in new tenant co-lo's.
As a result we continue to target core organic growth at or above the high end of our long-term 6% to 8% range.
Meanwhile our international segment posted yet another strong quarter driving about half of our consolidated revenue growth.
As a result of our diversified pool of our customers we are experiencing demand across our entire international footprint.
In our emerging wireless markets including India and Ghana 3G is in its early deployment stages.
Increasing data usage is driving capacity deployments in our evolving Latin American and South African markets.
And 4G deployments are underway in Germany.
We believe these investment trends will continue and as a result expect our international segment to continue to deliver double-digit core organic growth.
Turning to Slide 7.
During the third quarter our domestic rental and management segment revenue growth was driven primarily by an increase in recurring cash leasing revenue from our legacy properties.
Reported domestic rental and management segment revenue grew by over 10% to approximately to $530 million and our domestic core revenue growth was over 12%.
This is the highest core revenue growth we have reported in U.S.
in the last five years.
Our domestic core organic revenue growth was 9.2% in the quarter significantly exceeding our ongoing 6% to 8% core organic growth goal for the U.S.
AT&amp;T and Verizon continue to lead the pack in terms of new business commitments with T-Mobiles Sprint and a number of other customers also making meaningful contributions.
In addition to our contractual escalators and guaranteed payments under our holistic MLA agreements we again saw significant additions to pay activity in the quarter.
Domestic signed new business which we would expect to commence within the next six to 12 months remained at elevated levels during the quarter exceeding the year ago period by 13%.
While domestic commenced new business it's still over 70% amendment related we are starting to see signs of a shift to new leases in our new business pipeline where our co-lo applications make up closer to 40% of that total.
The balance of our core growth in the U.S.
about 3% was generated from a more than 1 000 new communication sites we acquired or constructed in the U.S.
since the beginning of the third quarter of 2012.
Included in the 1 000 are about 350 new built-to-suit towers and we expect that our U.S.
new build program will increase over the next 12 months.
Our domestic rental and management segment gross margin increased over $46 million or 12% in the quarter representing a year-over-year conversion rate of about 94%.
Our strong conversion rate trends are a result of our robust organic revenue growth complemented by our ongoing property level cost management program including our land lease management initiatives.
We continue to proactively acquire and extend land leases under our sites during the quarter purchasing a 170 parcels and extending over 300 by an average of over 30 years.
As of the third quarter we owned land under approximately 30% of our domestic properties and have on average only 1% of ground leases up for renewal per year over the next 10 years.
Combined with our recent acquisition of GTP about 90% of our domestic tower sites are located on land that we either own or have land leases under for at least 10 years.
Finally as a result of our growth in gross margin in Q3 operating profit increased 11.4% to over $410 million.
Moving on to Slide 8.
During the quarter our international rental and management segment reported revenue increased about 23% to $267 million.
International core revenue growth was nearly 32% and international core organic revenue growth was over 14%.
During the quarter foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted our growth by about $6 million when compared to the rates we assumed in our outlook.
Our organic growth continue to be driven primarily by strong new lease commencement activity from tenants such as Telefónica Nextel International and America Movil in Latin America; Vodafone and MTN in South Africa; and Bharti Vodafone and Idea Cellular in India.
Unlike the U.S.
our international segment organic growth is primarily generated by the addition of new tenant co-locations across our existing properties.
This is a result of the lower average tenancy across our international portfolio which today stands at about 1.6.
As you recall many of the towers we've acquired internationally over the last three years were single-tenant towers on day one.
These properties had not previously been marketed or made available to other wireless service providers.
Given our established presence and relationship with our customers as a leading independent tower operator we are well-positioned to drive incremental leasing on these assets.
We expect this organic growth to increase tenancies across our international portfolio and will also result in substantial margin improvement for the segment.
During the quarter we constructed more than 400 sites and acquired over 500 more.
We have added 6 800 communication sites to our international portfolio since the beginning of the third quarter of 2012 all of which contributed over 17% to our international core growth.
As we add new properties to our international portfolio our pass-through revenue continues to increase reflecting our ability to share a portion of our operating costs with our tenants.
During the third quarter our international pass-through revenue was over $71 million which is up about 25% or $14 million from the prior year period.
From a reported gross margin perspective our international rental and management segment increased by 25% year-over-year to $170 million resulting in 69% gross margin conversion rate.
Excluding the impact of pass-through revenue our gross margin and gross margin conversion rate would have been 87% and 96% respectively.
Finally our international segment operating profit also increased nearly 25% to roughly $138 million.
Our international segment operating profit margins was 52%.
And excluding the impact of pass-through revenue was over 70%.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our reported adjusted EBITDA growth relative to the third quarter of 2012 was nearly 14% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth for the quarter at over 17%.
All of our adjusted EBITDA core growth was attributable to our rental and management segment which generally represents recurring run rate contributions to EBITDA as opposed to the non-run rate nature of EBITDA generated by our services business.
During the third quarter our services segment contribution to adjusted EBITDA declined on both a sequential and year-over-year basis as a result of the completion of a specific project related to a customer network upgrade initiative.
During the fourth quarter we expect activity will increase in our service segment as a result of a new services project and drive activity closer to our second quarter of 2013 levels.
For the quarter our adjusted EBITDA margin was over 65% which increased compared to the prior year period despite the addition of nearly 8 000 new sites since the beginning of Q3 2012.
The average day one tenancy of the 8 000 new sites was just over one.
This results in lower initial margins and provides a platform for margin expansion over the next several years.
And excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was nearly 72% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was over 80%.
Moving on to Slide 10.
The strong EBITDA performance we saw in the quarter also translated into solid growth in adjusted funds from operations or AFFO which increased by over $72 million to $367 million or $0.92 per share.
AFFO and AFFO per share of growth were over 24% relative to the third quarter of 2012.
Core AFFO grew by about 26% after excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the impact of a $3.5 million one-time favorable international cash tax refund received during the quarter.
This strong growth in AFFO reflects a significant organic new business growth in a number of successful opportunistic refinancing transactions which resulted in 100% conversion of adjusted EBITDA to AFFO during the quarter.
Looking forward we continue to target at least mid-teen core AFFO growth and believe that we're extremely well-positioned for long-term upside from our recently announced acquisitions and the continuing underlying demand trends we are seeing across our global footprint.
Turning to Slide 11.
We are raising our full year 2013 outlook for rental and management segment revenue to between $3.25 billion and $3.28 billion.
This includes an incremental contribution from GTP and Nextel Mexico of approximately $86 million plus $5 million of incremental straight-line revenue from our existing business partially offset by a $13 million negative impact of FX fluctuations relative to our prior outlook $6 million of which impacted our Q3 results.
We expect to close the NII tower acquisition in Brazil late in the fourth quarter and consequently have excluded the benefits of those assets from our outlook.
For the year we now expect our core growth in rental and management revenue to be over 21% at the midpoint.
The robust leasing activity we have assumed for the rest of the year also translates into stronger core organic growth which we now expect will be nearly 9% in the U.S.
and about 13% in our international segment.
We are also increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $55 million at the midpoint.
This includes a $58 million contribution from the GTP portfolio and the NII sites plus a $4 million net straight-line benefit partially offset by about $7 million in unfavorable FX fluctuations.
We expect core growth and adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be more than 19%.
Finally we are also raising our full year AFFO outlook at the midpoint by $10 million.
This increase reflects the impact of our recent acquisitions and the debt we raised in August used to help close the transactions anticipated in Q4.
It is important to highlight that we've included the interest expense impact of the full financing in our outlook but have not layered in the associated EBITDA for the Brazilian portfolio.
Also we've included just two months of EBITDA contributions from the NII Mexican portfolio given an expected close in November.
We now expect to generate core AFFO growth of over 22% for the year.
This growth reflects the immediately accretive nature of the GTP and NII transactions.
Moving on to Slide 12 and walking through our 2013 rental and management segment revenue build.
You can see that we expect consolidated core organic growth in 2013 to be about 10% composed of cash growth from escalators new leases and amendments on existing sites partially offset by some churn.
The balance of our core growth about 12% is attributable to the nearly 12 000 sites we've added to our portfolio since the beginning of 2012.
10% would be the highest full year core organic growth rate we have achieved in over five years which we believe is an excellent indicator of the momentum we are seeing across the business.
Our ability to not only leverage our strong balance sheet to deploy capital for accretive transactions but also grow our large base of business organically is in our view a clear indication of the quality of our properties in global scale.
The foundational principle of the tower business is centered on organic growth given the extremely high flow through of revenue to margins in low levels of required incremental capital spending.
We have been focused for a number of years now on positioning ourselves to generate significant sustainable organic growth from our operations and are now seeing the fruits of those initiatives.
We expect to generate continued strong organic growth across our global footprint into 2014 and beyond.
Turning to Slide 13.
We remain committed to the long-term financial policies that have enabled us to deploy over $17 billion in capital since 2007 to fund accretive acquisitions our CapEx program and the return of cash to our shareholders through our repurchase programs and REIT distributions.
As a result of our acquisition of GTP we expect to end the year at 5.8x net debt to adjusted EBITDA on a pro forma basis.
We intend to delever back to our targeted range of net debt to adjusted EBITDA over the next 12 to 15 months.
We anticipate that this deleveraging process will be driven by a combination of adjusted EBITDA growth from both our legacy and newly acquired assets as well as selective debt repayments utilizing the significant free cash flow generation of our business.
Pro forma for our recently completed term loan and our acquisition of GTP we have liquidity of about $2.6 billion including about $700 million in cash on hand.
Turning to Slide 14.
And in summary we've had an excellent year so far in 2013.
We believe that we have improved our competitive positioning and ability to drive solid returns through our recently closed acquisition of GTP and our announced transactions with Nextel International.
We have established our status as a global leader in telecommunications infrastructure and as a result of recent acquisitions expect to have over 65 000 sites on five continents.
We have positioned our company to benefit from the next generation network technology deployments around the world.
In the U.S.
we believe our recently expanded portfolio of over 27 000 sites positions us to benefit from an unprecedented demand environment that we believe will continue through 2014.
All four nationwide carriers are aggressively deploying 4G networks with Verizon and AT&amp;T leading the group and T-Mobile and Sprint working hard to keep pace.
We have deliberately positioned our U.S.
business to better serve these large well-funded carriers.
Pro forma for the GTP portfolio.
We will derive nearly 80% of our domestic rental and management segment revenues from the top four carriers.
With over 60% of our portfolio located in the top-100 markets and significant incremental capacity and the vast majority of our tower sites we believe we are poised to benefit from the carriers continued investment in their networks for a number of years to come.
The acquisition also increased our presence in top key markets such as New York San Francisco and Washington D.C.
In our international markets where we will have nearly 40 000 sites once we close the NII transaction our large multinational carrier partners are also investing heavily in their networks to provide their customers with increasingly bandwidth-intensive wireless technology solutions.
In our anchor Brazilian and Mexican markets where we have demonstrated a proven ability to generate return on invested capital in excess of 20% on legacy tower sites our portfolio will expand over 15 000 sites.
As the largest independent tower operator in those regions we intend to use our portfolio on long-standing relationships with key customers such as Nextel International Telefónica and America Movil to continue to generate sizable returns.
In Brazil as the World Cup and Olympics approach we anticipate a strong demand environment to continue through 2014 and beyond and are well-positioned to capitalize on this investment cycle.
We're especially excited to start leasing up to nearly 2 800 predominantly single-tenant sites we are acquiring from Nextel given their favorable locations and the fact that they have never been actively marketed previously.
In Mexico where we will also have the largest independent tower portfolio in the country we expect solid demand trends we have seen so far in 2013 to continue into next year as carriers such as Nextel America Movil and Iusacell continue to aggressively invest in their 3G networks.
We anticipate that 4G network deployments in Mexico will commence in the near-term as well which will be another driver of organic new business for our portfolio of over 8 000 sites.
We expect demand trends in our other international markets to remain compelling as well.
Our customers in Africa and India are expected to be continue to invest in their networks as wireless services continue to expand.
As we've talked about previously the distinct lack of fixed line infrastructure in these regions make wireless a compelling value proposition for the end-user.
And as a result we expect to see solid growth in these emerging markets going forward.
Although we will wait to issue formal 2014 guidance until our Q4 call in February we are confident that we will once again be able to achieve core organic growth rates at least in the high-end of our target ranges of 6% to 8% in the U.S.
and at least 200 basis points to 300 basis points above that in our international markets.
We anticipate that this organic growth in combination with EBITDA contributions from our 2013 acquisitions and the repayment of borrowings under our credit facilities will enable us to delever back to our target leverage range.
Further the impact of our GTP and NII acquisitions should contribute approximately $0.25 to $0.30 to our AFFO growth in 2014 further demonstrating the accretive nature of the investments we have made on behalf of our investors in 2013.
In summary we believe that our legacy business performance complemented by the accretion associated with our recent acquisitions will position us well for another strong year in 2014.
We believe that this growth in cash flow coupled with the anticipated growth in our dividend will create meaningful value for our shareholders.
And with that I turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Tom and good morning to everybody on the call.
As evidence by our elevated third quarter and year-to-date core organic growth rates the rapid adoption of advanced mobile services continues to drive demand for tower space.
Today I'll take some time to briefly review the technical foundations of the essential role of the tower in the delivery of wireless service.
These fundamentals routing the physics of radio wave obligation provide a strong validation of our future revenue and cash flow expectations.
Our recent strategic initiatives notably the GTP and NII transactions demonstrate our confidence in these technical foundations and will add approximately 10 000 high-quality sites to our three most long-standing markets U.S.
Mexico and Brazil as Tom mentioned.
From an investor perspective I believe there is just one fundamental technology concept to keep in mind.
Modern wireless service is delivered in two basic stages.
The analog voice and they travel through the airwaves between your handsets and the tower-mounted antenna and the digital portion of the signal path that is routed via the internet or landline telecom network.
The tower is the physical point for analog and digital converge and analog wave physics drive tower economics.
Therefore as we assess the impact of mobile technology development it's essential to differentiate between analog and digital considerations.
Analog factors determine tower density and tower loading requirements while digital factors primarily impact the wireless operators for network needs for base stations switches routers storage and servers.
At the most basic level the two most important analog wave characteristics for our business are spectrum frequency and signal strength attenuation.
So let's address each of these separately with respect to 4G LTE deployments in the U.S.
as our example.
First as you all know spectrum propagation distance is inversely proportional to frequency.
In other words the higher the frequency spectrum the shorter the effect of distance.
Therefore all else being equal higher frequency spectrum requires greater cell density and for us more tower leases.
All four national wireless carrier have begun their LTE deployments with initial spectrum either in the 700 megahertz range Verizon and AT&amp;T or the PCS or AWS range inclusive of 1.7 gigahertz to 2.1 gigahertz and that would include Sprint and T-Mobile U.S.A.
But based on their respective public statements and announced transactions we believe each of these carrier is or will be adding higher band spectrum to its initial LTE network design.
Verizon has already deployed AWS spectrum and is likely to later refurbish PCS spectrum to LTE.
We expect that AT&amp;T will apply on repurpose AWS PCS and even WCS spectrum at 2.3 gigahertz over the next few years.
Sprint is likely to pass the Clearwire 2.5 gigahertz spectrum for a widespread LTE coverage.
And T-Mobile will potentially migrate to Metro PCS spectrum in the AWS band to LTE as well.
Consequently it's our view that U.S.
carriers will need to add cell-sites for coverage and/or capacity especially in light of the shorter propagation spectrum being introduced for LTE.
The second critical analog signal factor is the level of signal strength required to deliver a competitive user experience to your handset or device.
Again the basic physics of wave propagation result in signal strength diminishing as the wave travels outward from its source.
Advanced mobile applications enabled by LTE such as video music broadband internet access and voice over LTE or VoLTE they require higher signal quality than 2G circuit switched voice or even typical 3G data application such as email.
As a result if its signaled at a given distance from the tower provided a viable user experience for 3G applications it may actually prove inadequate for a likeable 4G video stream for example.
Consequently the additional signal strength needed at the cell edge for many 4G applications will further encourage greater cell-site density and hence more tower leases over time.
So to summarize we expect the introduction of higher band spectrum combined with the increasing signal quality requirements of LTE services will drive significant new leasing opportunities for our business.
This conclusion rest on basic principles of analog wave physics and addresses the coverage requirements of evolving wireless networks and large capacity applications.
But in addition to these coverage considerations other capacity constraints based on the physics of analog radiofrequency transmission also come into play.
Wireless spectrum in bands usable for radio frequency transmission are as you know of limited resource.
An incremental wireless spectrum measured in megahertz in a given band has a limitation on how much information it can carry.
Further there are electrical power constraints at both the cell-site and especially in the handset due to a host of factors such as device battery life regulatory restrictions signal interference thermal considerations et cetera that also put limitations on the effective capacity of an analog radio frequency signal.
Against these special and tower limitations is the exploding consumer demand for bandwidth.
As subscribers upgrade from 2G to 3G to 4G devices and applications the amount of information being transmitted and receive grows dramatically.
The average megabytes per month of information transmitted from a 3G device as compared to a basic 2G device has been measured in approximately a four times increase.
However data consumption of the average 4G device today is 1 300 megabytes or 1.3 gigabytes per month and that's nearly 200 times that of the basic 2G feature phone.
Given this very heavy usage pattern U.S.
wireless carriers are already beginning to experience capacity challenges in major market since the electrical power settings are generally fixed and dedicated 4G spectrum is also relatively limited at this time.
These early capacity challenges have emerged during the year in which 4G device penetration in the U.S.
grew from 10% to only about 20% of devices.
As 4G penetration and usage patterns double again from 20% to 40% and then again from 40% to 80% we expect that mobile operators will be adding additional equipment loading to their current cell-sites resulting in the elongation of amendment revenue opportunity for the US.
Moreover in addition to traffic volume the introduction of additional spectrum bands that we talked about such as AWS WCS and 2.5 gigahertz spectrum will further support tower loading on existing cell-sites as dedicated antennas are often installed to optimize the different propagation characteristics of each of those bands.
Finally given the anticipated enormous increase on data throughput as the majority of subscribers end up connecting to LTE we expect cell splitting for capacity in addition to coverage to complement that coverage-driven network identification effort that I mentioned earlier.
We covered a lot of ground on the analog or tower base side of the wireless network so let's turn to the digital or core side of the network for just a few moments.
The analog signal to and from a handset or device is handled by the antenna up on the tower as you can see.
Below the antenna either tower-mounted or in the base station on the ground is a component known as the radiohead.
This component performs the analog digital conversions needed to connect your phone or device to the core network over the airwaves.
The base band receiver or base station then provides the digital signal processing to begin to guide your signal to its ultimate destination via fiber or other wire backhaul.
Most of the current development activity in wireless technology that we read about today effects the digital core side of the network.
Some examples of this are software defined networks of FDM cloud-based radio access networks or Cloud RAN and LTE-Advanced.
While these technologies hold promise for more efficient spectrum utilization then signal path optimization we don't view them as changing the trajectory of significant growth from either cell-site identification or tower loading as the baseline limitations on the analog or tower site of the network remain intact.
Lastly while we so far today focused most of the conversation so far on the U.S.
market we expect a similar migration towards 4G LTE in all of our served markets.
As a comparison of mobile data market development the U.S.
wireless industry derives around 40% of its ARPU from data with Brazil as an example only at 23% or about half.
Our general expectation is that these evolving markets will track three to five years behind the U.S.
from advanced data network deployment.
With earlier stage markets such as Ghana tracking five to eight years behind thereby lengthening our growth trajectory.
To wrap up in advance of taking your questions in our view the combination of greatly expanding consumer demand for advanced high-quality wireless service in both the U.S.
and globally plus the fundamentals of analog radiofrequency physics combine to pave a clear path to continue the robust growth for our business as Tom described.
Our recent acquisitions of GTP which significantly expands our U.S.
asset base as 4G deployment trends upward here and with NII which further improves our position in our two largest international markets will both enhance our AFFO per share performance.
These two important transactions will also contribute significantly to our aspirational goal of doubling our AFFO per share from 2012 to 2017.
So thanks to all of you for joining our call today.
Now we look forward to celebrating with you all the impending Red Sox victory in World Series.
Operator you can now open up the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss with Raymond James.
Apologize for joining the call while in progress it's been a busy earnings day obviously.
On your guidance certainly very exciting time globally for wireless and towers.
Within the guidance for '13 can you walk us through a little bit about how much of the increase was from the acquisitions Global Tower Partners and Nextel Mexico? There is a slide in there that that is in the appendix that I didn't talk to that actually gives a walk of the revenue EBITDA and AFFO growth from our prior outlook versus the new outlook.
And so you can see that looking on that Page 16 the impact of GTP and NII in itself is about $86 million at revenue $58 million for EBITDA and $53 million for AFFO less than the $36 million which is the financing which is there was some pre-funding in there because we actually raised some debt in August for that.
And that includes the GTP acquisition as well as the assets in Mexico which we anticipate closing for two months of the quarter not for the full three.
And we then anticipate closing Brazil late in the quarter before the end of the year and haven't included any of the benefits of that portfolio just because of the shorter timeframe to be in the quarter.
So the GTP and NII Mexico transactions from a revenue perspective will generate that $86 million that we have on Page 16.
And obviously a little continued weakness back in the third quarter from the FX more than what we had? In my remarks I mentioned we had about $6 million of FX headwinds versus our prior outlook and we expect another $7 million in the fourth quarter.
So that gives you the total impact of '13.
Just to round out the revenue we had some additional straight-line in some of our legacy assets as well as a couple of million dollars of even positive results to generate that full $80 million increase at the midpoint.
And I think you also mentioned that $0.25 to $0.30 of AFFO per share growth in '14 is coming from the Global Tower Partners and both Brazil and Mexico for NII.
Can you remind us about how much impact those two transactions had as far as maintenance CapEx and SG&amp;A spending because I will assume that's baked into that number as well that's a net benefit? That's exactly right.
All of those costs are baked in there.
On the transactions I want to say it was roughly $10 million of maintenance CapEx for 2014.
NII is largely going to be integrated right into the business so there is very little SG&amp;A that's required maybe a couple of million dollars.
And with regards to GTP there are some synergy benefits but it's about I want to say $527 million of incremental SG&amp;A.
As you recall from our last call when we talked about GTP we anticipate spending $10 million to $12 million of integration expenses and as a result we expect synergies of $5 million.
I think it was in the first year thereabout and growing to about $10 million over the 24-month period.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin with RBC.
My questions are on international and except Germany perhaps can you summarize to the degree to which you've got more versus less zoning protection by region and therefore some degree of competitive installation for your structures.
And then on any future hypothetical carrier transactions how open do you remain to considering the joint venture structure where the carrier retains ownership of the assets and ownership stake in the assets? I'll start off the first part by just sort of reiterating that the main barrier to entry for a particular tower site isn't necessarily the zoning restriction placed by the local government but it's just the economic reality of the franchised value of the site meaning if there is a limited amount of licenses in any given territory to build next to somebody else is essentially an economic mistake because you cut your available market in half.
So it's not a sensible thing to do from a business perspective but then further supporting our franchised value is the zoning barrier and in the U.S.
it's varied across the country but been fairly high.
And what we're seeing is in almost every other market the trend is towards sort of the U.S.
level if you will.
So if you take Brazil again it varies across Brazil but in some of the major cities and especially historical districts zoning barriers is just as high as they are anywhere in the U.S.
When you get to India as an another example again when you are in Delhi and Mumbai zoning restrictions can be very very difficult and existing sites become thereby more valuable as you say.
And then the last example I'll give you is Ghana where it's probably one of the toughest new-build environments anywhere from a regulatory perspective.
So everything is trending sort of towards the U.S.
on the local regulatory side but the most important factor again is just the economic rationality.
As for the JV structure if we can work with a regional or global leading telecom partner we'll entertain the opportunity for minority states and retention by those partners in those countries.
So we have those with MTN and Millicom at the moment and we would entertain them going forward and it also helps some risk sharing and an alignment of interest in countries that are new to us as well.
So we will look at it but our goal ultimately or even additionally often is 100% ownership.
Your next question comes from the line of Batya Levi with UBS.
Couple of questions first on your outlook for 2014 of at least 8% organic growth in the U.S.
can you talk about what that assumes in terms of activity especially coming from Sprint is it the level of activity we're seeing today or are you making some assumptions that they will continue to overlaid at 2.5.
And also just in terms of this third quarter it looks like the core growth from existing sites were higher than the new sites and we haven't seen that historically.
Can you talk a little bit of that what drove that difference? I mean on the last question it's just timing.
I mean the strong organic growth we've seen throughout the year.
And as you know when we look at kind of new site growth we look at those assets that we've just haven't owned for full 12 months.
And so given some of the timing of the transactions it's less if you will in terms the overall core revenue.
Strong growth on all those new sites but just in terms of the way we build the core organic and the new site revenue the core organic growth is higher.
And by the way as I mentioned it's among the highest levels that we've achieved which I think is a reflection of just the demand we've seen throughout the world which kind of gets into your second question from what we seen in 2014 and we'll talk about guidance in February.
The rates that what I'm talking about now for 2014 are just building from the rates we have now.
So I'm not anticipating any significant growth if you will coming from any particular carrier.
It's just continuing with the deployment schedules that we are realizing at this time.
And what I would add on the U.S.
market is we're seeing what we expected over the last few years continuing into the next few years which it there is such terrific consumer demand or such interesting new devices and applications coming out that's driving carrier investment in the networks to handle all of that.
They are figuring out a way to do it profitably and smartly.
And therefore they are increasing their demand more tower spaces as we go again whether it's on existing sites through amendments and more equipment or new sites to densify the network.
So it's a positive trend that continues along all of the fundamentals.
And then if you take a look at the individual companies or even their public statements as late as yesterday it suggests that they're going to up their investment in these trends whether it was Verizon at their Analyst Day or AT&amp;T who is talking about $20 billion a year of total CapEx for the next few years; and T-Mobile and Sprint who with their new structures and in this case of Sprint its new parent are bullish on investing in the U.S.
market.
So all of those are going to support the kinds of expectations we will be delivering in detail to you in our next call.
Just one more follow-up question can you remind us what percent of your revenues in the U.S.
are on fixed escalators of 3.5%? The lion share I mean the 80 plus percent are on the fixed escalator in that 3.5% range Batya.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bowen with Pacific Crest.
I was just wondering if you could give us an idea at this point of what you're expecting with regards to small cell activity both currently and going forward.
And if you tend to volunteer what percentage of revenue that is currently and also what you think that could grow to in 2014? There is activity in the small cell universe.
We look at it in two major categories; one is traditional distributive antenna system technology which we are active in.
And we are seeing actually some of the best organic growth in some of the most interesting new venues to deploy those DAS systems in this year so it's active but having said that it's about 2% of our total revenue.
And would we love to get it to 3% or 4%? Yes we would but the tower business is growing so significantly that that's a hard race to run to increase the DAS percentage against the strong growth on the tower side.
So it will probably be low-single digits for the foreseeable but it's definitely additive and it's helpful.
And then on the sort of more distributed even single small-cells the carriers are making very public statements about that.
The deployment numbers depending on what you count can be high but many of those deployments are for homes or small offices where the radius is 50 to 100 feet so it doesn't really lend itself to co-locations if you will and really not a competitive kind of product for what we do.
So where we can compete effectively on large venues with DAS systems that can handle lot of traffic we're right in the market and with these other smaller cells you will see the numbers but they won't really be a competitive product I do believe.
And then one quick follow-up Jim with regard to Verizon are you seeing them accelerate their small cell activity and I guess also do you see any small cell activity internationally as well? I think it's best to ask the individual carriers what their technical plans are for their network.
But there is interest across the major carriers in DAS and the U.S.
as various levels frankly.
And internationally it's starting to pick up interest and we've deployed some venues in Latin America and African and we're looking at in Asia now.
So there will be some opportunity in those places as well but again compared to the big macro network on towers it will be a complementary offering for us.
The next question comes from the line of David Barden with Bank of America.
Tom could you kind of give us a sense as we look both now versus last year and maybe thinking about some of the drivers for 2014 how two things are changing.
One the mix of new cells versus amendments activity from the carriers and then second the amount of activity you're seeing that then historically is encompassed by MLAs that are capturing some of these amendment revenues versus off MLA incremental revenues at the margin? Sure David.
I mean first of all in the mix I mean in the U.S.
we have see some new co-location growth but as a percentage clearly the total we're still seeing 70-plus percent coming from amendments albeit the amendment pricing is actually rising which actually indicates the carriers themselves pretty more up on those existing portfolio on those existing platform.
So I think it's a precursor then for them just start to shift to more new co-lo's which we're starting to see now in the application pipeline.
And so as I mentioned in my remarks we're starting to see about 30% to 40% of the application pipeline actually being co-locations so I think we will continue to see that growth in volumes over the next 12 to 18 months as the carriers are now going to be starting to have to split cells and increase leasing as the LTE penetration continues to grow from there kind of the mid-teens up to the north of 20 which we would expect again over the next 12 months.
So I think it's a natural trend David which we've seen in the past with prior deployments.
Relative to the question on kind of the MLAs and holistic MLAs which I think is what your question was.
About half of our core organic growth in the U.S.
is actually now fixed which is largely the escalators plus the right to use fees that we have on our holistic agreements with the balance coming from the activity from our non-holistic related master lease agreements are less than churn.
So we're actually seizing a sizeable portion of our organic growth rate now as a flow or as a fixed rate.
And if I pick that together and then I look at your 9% core organic year-over-year growth during the third quarter and then think about your comments about coming in with the higher end of core growth of 6% to 8% for next year.
Are there reasons that based on Jim's comments that you can name here now that the growth would be as slow as 6% to 8% relative to the 9% you're generating now in third quarter on a core organic basis in U.S.? Well I think what I said David was that we would expect to be at least at the high end.
So without giving formal guidance which we will in February we would expect the pacing to be consistent with where we are now.
There is no reason to think that it would slowdown.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski with Barclays.
Just following-up in terms of overall opportunities in the U.S.
market here.
I was wondering if you could talk about some of the pricing trends that you folks are seeing with respect to some of these new sites? I mean it does seems though that based on the amount of equipment that needs to go up on the towers the amount of support that they need to provide with some of these high bandwidth applications.
Our check suggest that you folks are getting a step-up when it comes to pricing with respect to an LTE tower versus what we've seen from a traditional 3G sense.
And I was wondering if you could provide us a little bit more color there? I mean overall if you take a look at the trends candidly over the last four or five quarters in the United States I mean clearly our average lease rate per customer per month is up 10%.
So I think what you're suggesting is right.
There is more infrastructure going on the site themselves which is driving the increase in revenue per lease per tower.
And as well as just more of as what Jim was referring to more of the radioheads more of the electronics is actually coming up on the tower itself.
And we have seen a nice growth in the U.S.
market over the last four or five quarters just in terms of that lease rate per month.
And it's been about as I said kind of on a q-over-q basis it's probably about 10%.
So one could surmise that as you start to see increase cell identification from the carriers which I think seems to be now be consensus for you amongst the carriers in terms of the public commentary that could be a beneficial trend when it comes to overall pricing trends continuing.
Absolutely.
And then if I may just one follow-up question.
Now GTP deal is completed.
Obviously we've seen what's happened with the AT&amp;T tower sale process.
How do you folks view ongoing M&amp;A opportunities going forward? I just wanted to get a better sense in terms whether or not the pace of M&amp;A particularly the pace of M&amp;A of significant scale is likely to slow going forward at this point? Obviously there are fewer large portfolios even theoretically available in the United States right now.
Others will be determined by their owners if ever and when they might come to market.
We would always be interested in any of those at the right pricing terms and we're pretty disciplined on how we do those calculations but of course we show interest and review each opportunity.
But there is always smaller tower acquisition options in the U.S.
as time goes forward and we'll be very active in that market too.
In fact GTP was quite good at that and we're going to absorb some of that talent into our company and keep our eyes open.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Most of them have been answered but maybe we can drilldown a little bit deeper in terms of the question David asked about amendments in new cell sites.
At PCIA Leah had made some comments about and maybe for Verizon and AT&amp;T being further down the path in terms of the transition.
And so maybe you can give us a little bit more color on where those guys are in terms of their amendment versus new cell-site deployment as potentially indicated for where we might see the rest of your client base go? Jon I want to continue in respect to our customers individual rollout plans again refer you to them on specifics.
But if you just look at the pattern of initiation of LTE network deployment obviously Verizon started fairly early AT&amp;T was right behind them and then Sprint T-Mobile really picked up the pace recently.
So the historical pattern has been a significant overlay I'd say two-thirds of your site.
Then do the grooming that this involves to understand what the usage patterns are then you may go back and start cell splitting and filling in coverage holes etc cetera.
So we are again seeing Verizon and AT&amp;T logically being the first to enter that phase two of the standard deployment cycle and Sprint and T-Mobile will enter a bit later.
So I think aside from that it would be best to get more specifics from each of them.
And Jonathan just to follow-on that I mentioned that if you take a look at the pipeline that we have from an application perspective of about 40% our co-lo's versus 60% amendments' that was 35% four months ago.
So we're actually seeing the growth overall in the new co-lo's and we're seeing that candidly in the application pipeline which we would expect to bring online in the next six months.
And your final question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Tom I heard you were talking about deleveraging over the next several quarters but I did notice you did do some buyback in the quarter? Perhaps you can talk about your appetite for continuing buybacks going forward assuming no M&amp;A? And then also a little bit more on dividends and how you're NOL position is changing with some of the recent yields that you've done? Sure Simon.
I mean the buyback program we actually put on hold when we announced the GTP transaction.
So that was the activity prior to the announcement of that particular transaction.
And I think in the light of what we're trying to do over the next 12 to 18 months in terms of delivering there will be very little buyback in our program.
With regards to the NOLs we ended the year at about $900 million and we'll use about $250 million this year so we have about $650 million at the end of the year which we will then use over the next three to seven years if you will.
The dividend as we've said in the past it's obviously subjected to our board but what Jim and I have talked about is our 20% compounded annual growth in our dividend.
And so we would anticipate that our dividend will grow at that rate over the next several years.
That concludes the call this morning.
Everyone we really appreciate your call.
I'm sure you heard kind of the energy around what we were able to generate in the third quarter.
We think we're on path for a really solid 2013 and really well-positioned for again another solid 2014.
And we're excited about being able to share those results in February with you.
So thanks again for the call.
Bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmine and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now turn the call over to Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Carmine.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website <a href="http://www.americantower.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.americantower.com</u></a>.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide opening remarks.
Then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 as well as our outlook for 2014; and after these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2014 outlook and future operating performance including AFFO growth and dividend per share growth our capital allocation strategy including our redistribution and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect U.S.
in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2013 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that I’d like to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Leah and good morning to everyone.
A year ago we reestablished an aspirational goal of once again doubling our AFFO per share by 2017 as we had previous done in the 2007 to 2012 timeframe.
Today I’m pleased to report that we’re well on track to meet our re-doubling goal.
In 2013 we drove record levels of organic growth in both our U.S.
and international segments and added over 10 000 sites to our global asset base through the acquisitions of the GTP and NII portfolios and our ongoing site construction program.
We continue to implement our disciplined investment strategy and to drive operational execution which we believe has positioned American Tower for sustainable and consistent growth for years to come.
During the more than 12 years that I have been at the company we’ve purposely and methodically expanded our asset base to over 67 000 towers that deliver strong organic growth as well as the highest margins in our industry.
Today I’ll cover three main topics before turning it over to Tom for the details on our 2013 results and 2014 outlook.
First I’ll discuss the solid foundation we built in the U.S.
in which we expect to generate 66% of our 2014 rental revenue through our high quality asset base operational acumen and solid customer contracts.
Next I’ll summaries how we extended our expertise to take advantage of robust wireless growth trend outside of the U.S.
through prudent investments and partnerships with large multinational wireless carriers.
And finally I’ll outline how our legacy portfolio and newly acquired assets together should enable us to continue generating at least mid-teen annual core growth and AFFO per share for the foreseeable future.
So turning to slide five the quality of our U.S.
properties and our strong contractual arrangements with the big four wireless carriers have led to sustained out performance in our domestic business.
Throughout our history we have focused on purchasing assets constructed by third party tower providers like us or by cellular operators both of whom have traditionally invested signification timing capital in developing the quality and maintenance of the tower structure along with relatively generous ground space with favorable land lease terms.
We believe that our domestic sites are very well positioned for the long-term growth for a number of reasons.
First of these is the structural capacity of our towers is substantial.
With approximately 2.5 tenants per tower versus the design capacity of typically around 5 tenants the vast majorities of our properties in the U.S.
have significant incremental structural capacity without the need for redevelopment capital spending.
Our average tower height of approximately 210 feet provides ample vertical space for numerous platforms of transmission equipment as well.
Second we believe that the locations of our U.S.
sites position us well to capture significant incremental co-location.
With the majority of our towers in suburban rural areas our portfolio can take advantage of strong wireless usage trends in areas where macro-sites are and will remain the preferred deployment option for carriers and this is from a cost technical performance and spectrum efficiency perspective.
In combination the structural strength and location distribution of our assets has yielded strong performance in our domestic business today and provides solid upside for future leasing activity.
Third our U.S.
assets are predominantly owned macro-towers which generate approximately 95% of our domestic revenues today.
It’s our experience that traditional tower structures continue to generate the highest leasing demand and the most resilient long-term recurring cash revenue streams.
Our focus therefore continues to be on maximizing the quality and efficiency of our macro tower portfolio.
Finally our domestic assets have a very strong land rights profile.
Currently we own the land under 28% of our U.S.
towers and conduct a highly active program to either purchase additional land or extended ground lease depending on what’s most economically attractive in each case.
Today over 50% of our U.S.
land leases have remaining terms of 20 years or more with an average remaining lease term of 24 years.
Turning now to slide six with the proliferation of advanced data services such as mobile video music and gaming wireless date consumption trends in the U.S.
continue to drive up Average Revenue Per User or ARPU for our carrier customers.
Demand for wireless data continues to rise and the latest Cisco VNI report projects wireless data carriers over macro networks to grow at a nearly 50% cumulative average growth rate through 2018.
So to preserves quality of service and minimize their customer churn our carriers are spending significantly more CapEx to bolster the quality and coverage of their networks.
As you can see in this chart total domestic wireless CapEx was over $30 billion in 2013 compared to historical levels of between $20 billion and $25 billion per year.
These record levels of spending have supported our domestic growth over the last several years and given the further explosion in data usage and upcoming voice over LTE deployments we believe carrier activity will remain elevated into the future.
Each of our customers is at a different phases in the 4G rollout cycle.
While Verizon has finished its initial LTE coverage build out and AT&amp;T is largely complete T-Mobile and Sprint continue to work on achieving their coverage goals.
The leasing environment in the U.S.
remains very strong and with the overall 4G coverage base progressing well we are now seeing mobile operators in the U.S.
moving into expanding capacity and driving new lease activity as they densify their networks to handle 4G traffic.
Then turning to slide seven as the major carriers began investing aggressively in their networks we negotiated with them comprehensive long term contractual arrangements to drive strong domestic core growth for American Tower while streamlining application and installation processes and reducing time lines for our customers.
What we call the holistic master lease agreement that we have in place with three of our four largest customers provide compelling time-to-market advantages to them making us then a preferred provider of tower real-estate.
Furthermore given the aggressive network upgrade programs that carriers have in place in many cases the limits establishing our holistic agreements have been exceeded and resolved in incremental revenue for us above and beyond the initial contract.
Our master lease agreement contracts and operational capabilities in areas such as rapid lease amendment processing and in-house structural engineering have contributed to elevated core organic revenue growth reaching a record of 8.7% in 2013.
Further we continue to leverage our strong asset base to driver additional leasing activity across our sites at minimal cost to our company.
In most cases because of the quality of the assets our towers require no development capital expenditures to support incremental co-location.
In those circumstances where CapEx is required we spend an average of less than $20 000 of net investment per project.
In addition to low redevelopment costs we also have low historical maintenance CapEx with an average between $1 500 and $1 700 per property per year.
So taking together our solid asset base operational excellence and strong customer relationships have led to consistent recurring long-term growth in our domestic business.
With our recent GTP acquisition and our continuing emphasis on driving organic leasing growth carefully managing site level costs and maintaining an active construction program we believe our domestic segment will drive a substantial portion of our projected growth and AFFO per share up to and beyond our 2017 time rise.
Now turning to slide eight we’ve been able to extend our rich operating history and experience in the U.S.
to selective international markets where we are strategically aligning America Tower with many of the worlds leading multi-national mobile operators.
Over the past seven years we have consciously positioned the company to take advantage of a well-diversified set of international opportunities ranging from voice centric to data centric markets.
Given the minimal wireline telecom cable and fiber infrastructure in most of our international markets we expect wireless deployments will be the primary means to achieve nationwide broadband deployment and the associated economic benefits of functions such as online commerce and mobile banking.
As subscribers continue adopting high bandwidth applications in devices overseas we anticipate seeing even further investments in these networks which will continue to driver demand for our international sites.
As a result we’ve already seen substantial co-location activity on our non-U.S.
towers and given the early stage of technology deployment in many of these markets as compared to the U.S.
we expect this trend to continue over many years.
Turning to slide nine it’s clear that leasing activity on the international sites we’ve built and acquired to-date has been quite strong.
In the years following the 2008 financial crisis we were able to secure a significant number of international tower deals at attractive prices.
Since integrating a majority of these new assets into our portfolio in 2011 we have achieved organic growth rate ahead of our target range and we continue to believe our international operations will consistently generate a core organic growth rate 200 to 300 basis points in excess of our domestic operations.
Now moving to slide 10 we provide some quantitative evidence of our ability to make disciplined strategic investments for the business that have then generated solid growth delivered by our operations teams around the world.
Let’s first take a closer look at the significant leasing activity and margins we’ve been able to achieve with out assets in the U.S.
that we’ve operated for 10 or more years.
Specially we have more than doubled the revenue per tower and increased gross margin percentage by over 1 300 basis points on sites that have been in our portfolio since the end of 2003 or using a wine connoisseur's perspective our pre 2004 tower vintages.
Our ability to achieve this kind of financial performance on these towers is largely predicated on the key areas of focus I discussed earlier; the quality of the assets our solid contractual agreements with our customers and our operational ability to maximize the leasing on these towers.
Between 2011 and 2013 we’ve added over 6 000 new properties to our U.S.
portfolio which we believe provide us with an excellent opportunity to replicate our prior success.
As you can see on the chart sites that we added to domestic portfolio over the last three years current generate revenues per tower and margins well below that of our early vintage U.S.
assets.
As we drive leasing activity onto these new sites including the excellent the GTP portfolio that we just acquired we expect to driver incremental revenues and improve our margins significantly on these new assets.
Now turning to slide 11 we have demonstrated a similar track record with the investments we’ve made in our international markets.
As shown on the left hand side of the chart we nearly doubled our revenue per tower on a constant currency basis for our international sites in place since the end of the 2003 while simultaneously increasing the gross margin percentage.
Excluding pass through revenues such as ground rent and generator fuel in the relevant markets these sites currently generate gross margins significantly in excess of 90% today.
We believe the new properties we’ve added to the portfolio since 2011 will produce a potentially even stronger trajectory given the quality of these assets their lower initial tenancy of just over 1 per tower and their correspondingly lower gross margin profile.
Further these sites have solid structural characteristics and attractive geographic distribution where we anticipate seeing tremendous lease up opportunity over the next few years.
In turning to slide 12 our strong organic growth and acquisitions in 2013 have positioned us well heading into 2014 and as you can see we are ahead of the growth trajectory we set forth as an aspirational goal just last year.
As a result we are well on our way to again doubling our AFFO per share by 2017.
It’s important to note that a component of our future success is the company’s commitment to a strong balance sheet.
We continue to contain our exposure for the possibility of rising interest rates with just 20% or so of our capital structure being comprised on floating rate debt.
We currently have no material near term maturities and since the beginning of 2013 we’ve extended the average duration of our debt to nearly six years while reducing our average borrowing cost to about 4%.
Further we are increasingly utilizing local currency debt to create an addition hedge for fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
So in conclusion through years of disciplined investments and operational focus America Tower’s built a high quality global asset base that largely hosts the worlds leading telecom providers as tenants.
We demonstrated an outstanding track record for achieving solid leasing and financial performance on our assets and we are highly confident that the recent investments we have made will generate similar success.
Our 2013 results and outlook for 2014 which Tom will discuss in further detail reflect this expectation for continued strong performance.
As a result we are well on our way to accomplishing our five-year aspirational goal of achieving at least $6 of AFFO per share by 2017.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Tom.
Hey thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
We finished 2013 with a very strong fourth quarter adding over 10 000 new tower assets achieving very strong global organic growth and building on long standing relationships with our wireless carrier customers.
2013 was an excellent first step towards achieving our goal of doubling our AFFO per share from 2012 levels to 2017 and we feel we are very well positioned for another terrific year in 2014.
If you’ll please turn to slid 14.
We achieve solid growth across all of our key metrics in the fourth quarter.
On a core basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and non-cash straight-line lease accounting and significant one-time items our total rental and management revenue growth was nearly 31%.
Our organic core growth was over 11%.
The balance of our core revenue growth came from the over 16 000 new properties we’ve added to our portfolio since the beginning of October in 2012.
This core growth includes the nearly $100 million in revenues generated by our newly acquired GTP and NII assets.
We converted this solid growth in rental revenue into significant adjusted EBITDA growth which on a core basis was over 27%.
Substantially all of this growth was attributable to our rental and management segment where we generate recurring contractually based cash flows rather than the project base type of revenues generated by our services segment.
Additionally our international segment which accounted for roughly 25% of adjusted EBITDA during the quarter contributed close to 40% of the total growth in EBITDA.
This was a result of both solid organic growth and our recent acquisitions including the NII sites in Brazil and Mexico.
Finally we generated core AFFO growth of over 27% in the fourth quarter significantly above our long-term mid-teen target range.
Our newly acquired GTP and NII towers generated just over $0.05 of the $0.22 in core AFFO per share growth in the quarter.
Turning to slide 15 we also generated excellent full year results.
Our total rental and management segment core revenue growth was over 22% with nearly 10% attributable to organic core growth and the remainder driven by the nearly 22 000 new assets we’ve added since the beginning of 2012 with an average of about 1.3 tenants per tower on day one.
Due to the significant wireless carrier network investments being made worldwide 2013 represented a record year of activity for us both in the U.S.
and internationally.
Global commenced new business rose 20% versus 2012 while signed new business was up nearly 30%.
Our 2013 core adjusted EBITDA increased by almost 20% from 2012.
On a reported basis we ended the year with adjusted EBITDA over $70 million above the mid-point of our initial 2013 outlook despite FX headwinds of an incremental $30 million.
Similar to the fourth quarter substantially all of our adjusted EBITDA growth for the full year was attributable to our rental and management segments.
Our EBITDA margin for the year was sustained at nearly 65%.
AFFO growth in 2013 was over 23% on a core basis and reflects the strong adjusted EBITDA growth we experienced net of the funding costs associated with our acquisitions.
Virtually all of our AFFO growth were distributable to our rental and management segments and was complimented by opportunistic refinancing activities and our continuing access to capital markets at very attractive borrowing rates.
For example we refinanced our $1.75 billion 2007 securitization in March with an interest rate savings of nearly 300 basis points while extending the weighted average expiration to about eight years.
We continue to believe that our prudent balance sheet management will continue to play an important role in our growth going forward.
2013 was a terrific year for us with core growth in rental and management revenue of over 22% adjusted EBIDA of nearly 20% and AFFO of over 23%.
We ended the year with over 67 000 site in 13 markets around the globe and believe the dispositioning will generate strong growth again for our shareholders in 2014 and beyond.
Moving onto slide 16 our expectations for 2014 rental and management revenue growth reflect our belief that the strong leasing levels we experienced in 2013 will continue.
At the mid point of our outlook we expect core rental and management revenue growth of 23% driven by about 9% of organic core growth with a balance being generated from new properties including the new sites we expect to construct in 2014.
We’re forecasting a consolidated churn of about 1.5% which reflects the high contract renewal rates of our tenant base as well as the protective impact of the holistic agreements we have in place with three of our top four tenants in the U.S.
On a reported basis we expect rental and management revenue growth of about 18% at the mid point which includes about $150 million of negative impacts from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and straight-line revenue accounting.
Turning to slide 17 we expect the 2013 drivers of both our domestic and international segments to carry forward into 2014.
U.S.
wireless carrier CapEx spend projections for the year are nearly $35 billion as all four major nationwide carriers continue to spend aggressively on their various network initiatives.
Demand for wireless data continues to rise and the latest forecast project wireless data carried over macro networks to grow at a nearly 50% compounded annual growth rate through 2018 as Jim described.
In addition with both these rated to come online over the next few years we believe the network densification initiatives throughout the U.S.
will need to accelerate even further for our tenants to maintain a consistent quality of service for their customers.
With a domestic portfolio of nearly 28 000 own towers more than 300 dash systems and access to a nationwide managed rooftop portfolio we believe we are extremely well positioned to capture the incremental U.S.
demand for communications real estate generated by these drivers.
We believe that the underlying growth drivers in our international markets are equally compelling.
Large multi-national carriers are investing aggressively in 3G and 4G networks throughout our served markets and we expect the relationships we’ve built with those carriers to continue to yield significant benefits both in terms of new business commitments and future tower acquisition opportunities.
In 2013 for example nearly 50% of our total signed international and new business was driven by five carriers including Vodafone MTN and Telefónica and of our total international revenue in 2013 more than 50% was attributable to investment grade tenants reflecting our ongoing focus on aligning our sales with large well positioned multi national carriers.
We have very carefully and deliberately positioned the company to benefit from a broad range of network development and deployment activities across our international footprint.
Ranging from initial 3G network rollouts in India Ghana and Ugandan to 3G densification and initial 4G builds in Brazil Mexico and South Africa to more mature 4G build outs in Germany.
As our international markets progress throughout the voice centric and data centric migration path we expect to participate in each successive network deployment cycle just as we have done in the U.S.
As a result we believe our international operations will continue to generate organic core growth rates significantly in excess of our domestic operations.
In our view the long-term growth story in international is very exciting.
Moving onto slide 18 as a result of these demand drivers we expect our domestic and international rental and management segments to show significant growth in 2014.
In the U.S.
we expect core revenue growth of over 20% with organic core growth of between 8% and 9%.
We expect our organic core growth to also include about 12% in new property core growth with the majority coming from the newly acquired GTP portfolio.
Outside of the U.S.
we expect our markets will generate core growth of roughly 28% including organic core growth of about 11%.
Core growth from new properties including the recently acquired NII portfolios in Brazil and Mexico is projected to be about 17%.
Our international organic core growth is projected to outpace that of the U.S.
by about 250 basis points which is trending towards the high end of our long-term target range and is indicative of the aggressive investments our international wireless carrier customers are making in their networks.
As has been the case over the last few years we expect the majority of our new business outside of the U.S.
to be driven by large multi-national carriers like MTN Telefónica Vodafone and Bharti.
Turning to slide 19 we also expect solid growth and adjusted EBITDA and AFFO in 2014.
Beginning with adjusted EBITDA we are forecasting core growth of over 22% at the midpoint of our outlook with reported growth of about 16%.
We remain focused on property level cost controls as well as the SG&amp;A costs and expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to fall to approximately 9.6%.
Accordingly EBITDA margins are expected to be in the mid-60% range and as we generate incremental new business across our portfolio of properties we expect our margins will expand over the long term.
Turning to our outlook for AFFO we expect core growth of almost 21% at the midpoint which will be driven by the growth and adjusted EBITDA net of cost associated with our recent acquisitions including interest expense and maintenance CapEx.
We expect substantially all of our AFFO growth to be generated by our rental and management segment.
At the midpoint of outlook and assuming a weighted average diluted share account of about 400 million shares our outlook for AFFO per share will be roughly $4.30.
Moving onto slide 20 in 2014 and consistent with the last several years we expect our primary method of returning capital to stock holders will be our REIT distribution.
The amounts and timing of our dividend payments are at the discretion of the board but our goal continues to be to deliver annual dividend growth of at least 20% over the next five years.
We currently plan to spend between $850 million and $950 million in CapEx during the year which includes the construction of 2 500 sites at the midpoint.
We expect to build between 400 and 500 sites in the U.S.
compared to just over 300 in 2013 in response to increased carrier network densification activity.
Pro form for our construction pipeline and additional sites which we may acquire pursuant to previously announced acquisitions we expect to have over 70 000 sites by year-end.
In addition we expect to spend about $110 million on land acquisitions while also targeting to opportunistically extend over 2000 leases domestically in 2014.
And finally we continue to maintain an active deal pipeline and expect to continue evaluating acquisition opportunities around the world.
Our capital allocation priorities in 2014 continue to support our corporate strategy of growing our asset base while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
In turning to slide 21 and in summary we believe we had an excellent year in 2013 with solid growth across all of our key metrics.
As a result of the acquisition of the GTP tower portfolio we re-levered the company to our home U.S.
market where all four major carriers continue to aggressively invest in their networks.
Internationally we continue to deepen our presence in our legacy markets particularly in Mexico and Brazil through the acquisition of towers from NII while continuing to build on existing relationships with major carriers throughout our global footprint.
We continue to proactively manage our balance sheet extending our average debt tenure to about 5.5 years while reducing our average drilling cost to about 4% as of year-end.
By combining our newly acquired and built towers the solid organic growth we generated in 2013 and our strong balance sheet we believe we’ve positioned ourselves to achieve another terrific year in 2014.
So in conclusion we expect another year of global heightened customer demand for our communications real estate in 2014 and as a result expect to post strong organic core growth of about 9% core adjusted EBITDA growth of over 22% and core AFFO growth of nearly 21%.
We believe that this type of growth coupled with our anticipated dividend will generate meaningful shareholder returns in 2014 and position us well to drive strong sustainable returns for many years to come.
And with that we’d like to open up the call for your questions.
Operator.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Follow-up on the guidance around doubling the AFFO per share.
Does that envisage some of these opportunistic acquisitions or do you think that you can get there even if you don’t do any deals from here and perhaps you just talk a little bit about the landscape.
It seems like in the U.S.
there’s not a whole lot left of any scale.
You know Latin America we’ve had a lot of transactions.
Where do you see the most fruitful areas for expansion going forward? Thanks.
Sure.
Hey Simon this is Tom.
With regards to doubling the AFFO per share there are few components of it.
Clearly the organic growth of 6% to 8% in the U.S.
and 200 to 300 basis points on top of that extending that to 2017 really gets us a half way through the target.
The build program that we had ongoing was just 2 300 sites last year and 25 at the mid point 100 this year.
We would expect to continue that.
Get to another 10% to 15% to 20% of the target and the balance will come from the additional cash that we’re generating either buying back shares or to the extent that the opportunities are there moving forward with some acquisitions that hit our cost of capital requirements.
So we think we have all of the ingredients in place candidly to be able to achieve that $6 plus per share.
Simon its Jim.
Hi Jim.
In summary is we’re not dependant on the additional acquisitions internationally or domestically we think to hit our target with the asset base we have along with everything that Tom just pointed out is sufficient to hit the target.
We’re going to try to beat the target however and that’s the thing to watch.
And any particular regions of focus for the next couple of years? Well our strategy is to continue to be to deepen our position in existing major markets for us on one hand and then secondarily to continue to weave kind of a fabric in our international markets across these major multinational carries like MTN Telefónica America Movil etcetera.
So we are first and foremost having the U.S.
as a priority but you correctly pointed out the number of opportunities of size are getting less.
Nevertheless we will continue to evaluate and pursue those but also the international aperture we have across the four continents we’re participating in outside of North America give us a lot of opportunities and as I said these multi nationals that we work with tend to be in numerous markets many of which we’re already in.
So it’s really a balance between domestic and international.
What’s great about the five-year plan is we don’t have to reach for a deal to get it.
So we’re shooting for accretive deals just like GTP and NII.
If we can get them it will augment the slope of that curve in the upward direction but that’s not a dependency.
Thank you.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Batya Levi with UBS.
On CapEx the 2014 outlook seems to be a bit higher than the trend and what we were looking for.
Can you talk a little bit about the drivers of higher redevelopment CapEx? I’m assuming maybe some incremental CapEx that will be required for the acquisitions and also maybe some guidelines on what the start up capital projects may be.
And when you look at the new site builds I think it’s about 2500 for this year.
Similar to last year but discretionary CapEx is a bit higher.
Any color on the cost to build that will be great.
Thanks.
Yes sure Batya its Tom.
I mean your right on the redev its largely driven by building up the DAS network and upgrading the network to LTE and as you know much of the capital that we do invest for redev we do get back from our customers so the numbers that we’re looking at are gross CapEx numbers.
On the start up fees as we have in some of the transaction identified structural engineering efforts that you need to get up to be able to support the kind of ongoing co-location activity that we expect for that portfolio.
So NII is probably the most significant one in 2014 and we identified that back when we actually did the transaction.
Its embedded in the deal model if you will but for 2014 2015 there’ll be some additional start up CapEx for the NII transaction.
And back on the redevelopment we expect some of the additional redevelopment CapEx to probably get back about $130 million in reimbursements in 2014.
Again that’s an area of organization where we actually share the cost with our customers.
And on the cost to build it is going up on a per basis largely because of the additional sites that we’re actually building in the United States.
So last year 2013 we built about 300 sites in the U.S.
We expect that to be upwards of about 500 plus in the United States and that is actually driving up the cost per build from an average of like $70 000 to $90 000.
And what’s the cost of build in international now? It varies by market.
In India its less than $50 000 and in Latin America its in the $150 000 range.
Similar ranges in EMEA if you will and in the United States its $200 000 $225 000.
Great thank you.
Sure.
Your next question is from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Hey first if you could give us a sense as to the level of activity that falls underneath those holistic arrangements that Tom mentioned during your prepared remarks and maybe compare that back to a year ago and if we can sort of separate between sort of capacity sites and coverage sites.
So maybe some of the carriers have eaten up their pre-determined buckets for those capacity increases.
And then a second question both coming out of mobile world congress about carriers employing these more as part of their network configurations and just wondering if you are seeing any difference in trends and how you are pivoting relative to that math.
Thanks.
Sure.
Hey Jonathan let me take the first part and Jim will take the second part.
On the core organic growth rate we’re generating in the U.S.
its I think to the point of your first question its in that kind of that 8% to 9% range.
About half of that is coming from the cash escalator and the right to use fee 3.5% and 1.5%.
So actually it’s a little bit over half; it’s actually coming from that piece.
The additions to pay which is what you were alluding to before which are those revenues those fees coming from activity outside of the holistic range with the holistic customers is about 75 basis points and then the balance is coming from or the organic growth is coming from the non-holistic co-location and amendment activity net of churn.
So its very consistent and we expect 2013 versus 2014 kind of core organic growth as I said in that 8% to 9%.
Over half of it is coming from the fixed element if you will that cash escalator plus that right to use fee.
So Jonathan regarding small cells we studied this extensively with outside advisors and our own engineers and with our customers actually in some cases and the best way I think to think about small cells is their role in the mobile network versus the fixed line substitution network right and what I mean by that is mobile applications are for when we are out and about moving around whether actually in motion or just in places that are not our home or not our primary work place.
So that’s what the mobile network is designed to address that’s what we serve.
A lot of small cell applications tend to be WiFi sort of local fixed line replacements where you’re not mobile; in your home the small hot spots that you can get for your home fitness category office WiFi or small cell networks and campuses off the tower buildings etcetera fit in that category.
So what we’ve analyzed is what growth is going to happen in the mobile network and how much of that will be “offloaded” to these kinds of technologies.
Going back to the Cisco study we think that the assumptions in there are very reasonable and that you are going to have this significant caterer of year-over-year mobile network deployments and this doesn’t count WiFi substitutions in homes and things like that and that’s the 50% a year CAGR.
When you multiply that through over five years it’s a dramatic increase obviously.
Our estimation our technical assessment is that 80% of that mobile application will be covered through macro sites towers predominantly and 20% of actual mobile applications will be offloaded.
Now lets just go to the other side for a second.
Fixed line substitution is going to be largely small cell because it makes sense.
You are just replacing your phone line or your Internet connection in your home in your office; it’s not a mobile application.
We think that’s how a lot of small cells going to be deployed.
So our view is that tower demand is not adversely affected by these small cell deployments because of the nature of where our assets are as we pointed out suburban and rural predominantly.
Those geographies and topologies really demand a macro sighting.
They don’t make sense economically technically or from a spectrum in interference perspective to do them with small cell.
So our sort of wheelhouse of large sites relatively wide coverage areas you know between an eighth of a mile and two miles that’s always going to be the tower and that’s where we play.
Thank you for answering the questions.
Sure.
Your next question is from the line of Ric Prentiss with Raymond James.
Can you hear me now? Hi absolutely.
Hey Ric.
Hey sorry about that.
Hey a couple of questions.
One on your guidance can you let us know a little bit about there’s a couple of major projects underway.
Just trying to figure out if that’s in your guidance or not.
Sprint has talked about their Spark project heavily focusing on the 2.5 gig hertz frequency they got from Clearwire.
T-Mobile looking to buy low frequencies 700 band from Verizon by the middle of the year.
How much of Sprint Spark and T-Mobile low band would be either explicit or implicit in your guidance? Yes Ric I mean based upon what we see from an activity perspective with all of our customers they are based upon kind of what we have built in over the next three to six months if you will and so with regards to the United States we’re expecting really our organic run rate if you will but these are consistent with where it was in 2013.
So no meaningful changes if you will in terms of their deployment cycles.
Now to the extent that they continue to get more aggressive we may see some more activity towards the second half of the year.
But based upon what we’re seeing right now those kinds of items those kinds of events are in the forecast.
Okay.
And then next on international you closed some of the portfolio in the fourth quarter but I think there was still some slopping over.
How much of the ’14 guidance assumes the completion of the Nextel portfolios and what kind of timeframe? Yes none of the – your right.
About 1 000 sites were not picked up relative to the NII transaction and none of that activity; none of those sites are in the guidance.
Okay because when you did the transaction you said here’s what it might add annually and so you’ve not put that full amount in yet.
That’s right.
Great.
And then Jim there’s been some New York Times article recently about some different technology and one called pCell.
I must admit I’m not that familiar with it but have you guys looked into what that kind of left field technology current status is? We actually have and that is in the very early stage I would stay lab-based approach of that.
Once you think about scaling something like that up into a network where you’re going to have 300 million devices using 2 or 3 gigabites a month of traffic; the computing power to actually use a technology like that to provide service.
I think there is some very difficult issues in physics and technology that has to be overcome.
So ultimately maybe this is the point solution for certain kinds of applications.
Like again in workplace environments where you got a lot of people in an office on the floor of an office building that need that kind of augmentation but as far as a wide scale deployment technology vis-à-vis the macro site network that’s out there globally I don’t see it.
And that’s kind of like what four years ago Lite Radio made a flurry and we are just now starting to see it show up a little bit.
Yes.
So I would expect that this type of technology can be a knit solution to offload real high volume traffic.
Again that’s not what the towers are really there for in the first place.
One cleanup question for Tom the leverage range of 3x to 5x wanting to get back in the target within 12 to 15 months where are you guys out as far as thinking where you want to live in that target range.
And I know its probably contingent on what kind of M&amp;A opportunity might be out there but is it 12 to 15 months to get to the five are you comfortable staying at five? I’m just trying to gadget where the three to five plays out.
Yes I mean the 12 to 15 months I think Ric this is sort of five perhaps slightly below the five.
I think that we stated our target range in the three to five range.
If you look historically over the last couple of years we’ve been pretty comfortable to live in the four to five range.
So we think that’s a bit of a suite spot for us at this point.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
Well on churn the 1.5% in 2013 I wondered where that came from and then how that might differ in 2014.
And then regarding the global tower partners acquisition I’m just wondering the leasing trends you are seeing on that portfolio and how does that differ qualitatively and quantitatively compared to your legacy U.S.
assets.
Hey Jonathan it’s Tom.
Relative to the churn it’s very consistent 2013 versus 2014.
It’s around 1.5% $45 million as you can see on page 16 of the page.
And with regards to the GTP I mean we did have a very good quarter I have to say with GTP what we expected and we’re looking to have a really solid 2014 lease up on that portfolio as well.
We are putting all of those towers in the front of our customers and expect some real exciting things to come of it.
So Jonathan on source of the churn it consistently is very small customers paging companies local mobile radio operators either converting to a different technology or just sort of declining in their business.
This churn does not come from major wireless carriers in the U.S.
or overseas frankly and I also want to point out specifically that there is no idea in churn possibility for our company whatsoever because we’ve included that in our holistic deal and have eliminated it.
So the vast majority of churn comes from these very small customers.
And then just to point on GTP the sales team already beat the deal model in the first quarter that we were responsible for the business which was Q4 and what’s interesting about GTP is their contracts are non-holistic and we’ll have an opportunity maybe to bring those sites into an even larger and more comprehensive holistic deal extending terms and really locking in some nice growth on a bigger portfolio as time goes on.
So we are really interested in that aspect of the GTP opportunity.
I might just add just to put a final note on it.
On the GTP side they do have some a very small but of churn associated with iDEN over the next couple of years which is baked into the 2014 outlook but it’s minimal.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Imari Love with Morningstar.
Thanks for taking the call guys.
Good quarter and I wanted to ask you about in terms of invested capital both here and abroad you had the graphic after I believe the second quarter results last year of the international returns.
I think that’s the capital being in the low 20s and the mid-teens here in the U.S.
Any insights or color in terms of what the targets are for that going forward and have the internal rates of return target that you have on a per country basis have shifted or changed over the last 12 to 18 months.
Yes I mean on the ROIC side I mean you see how we define return on invested capital.
I mean if you exclude the impact of GTP and NII it actually rose about a 100 basis points over the last couple years.
So what we are really trying to do here is to drive AFFO per share as well as drive ROIC and its an and its not an or.
So we think that – and it’s largely based upon kind of a disciplined strategy that we have in terms of how we look at allocating capital.
From a cost of capital perspective we update our cost of capital estimates monthly.
So yes there are changes that go on on a monthly basis looking at interest rates and looking at local country risk as well as betas and all of the things that go into the kind of the CAPM model.
But generally speaking the IRR requirements if you will in the United States and Germany are in the kind of the high signal digits kind of the 7% to 9% depending up on the particular type of product.
A DAS investment might require a higher rate of return than a pure tower investment.
And looking down then at Latin-American we’re kind of in the 11% to 13% plus range and as well as in India and then in African it will range from kind of the 12% to 13% range whether its south Africa or up to the 18% to 20% range if we are in some of the other emerging markets there.
You know that’s kind of the baseline and then on top of it we’ll look at the counter party risk associated with the transaction and some additional elements associated with the type of a structure of agreement that we’re putting in place.
And all told if we go back and we take a look at kind of the results that we’ve had across the portfolio then I think its important to look at the ROIC and that’s where we’ve been able to increase the ROIC by 100 basis points over the last couple of years.
So hopefully that’s helpful.
Yes it is great thanks.
Your next question is from the line of David Barden with Bank of America.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So just Tom maybe a couple for you.
Just first given the increased capital allocations to the build-to-suits.
Could you kind of walk us through the economic model there on the build-to-suit a little bit in general terms? Specifically are you still kind of dedicated to the notion of bringing two players to a new tower build or are you doing a little bit more even on the spec side? That would be king of helpful to understand.
And then second just some of the questions people are kind of filtering through one of the things is looking at the domestic fourth-quarter rental income multiplying it by four and then comparing it to your 2014 guidance implies something around a compounded rate of growth quarter-to-quarter through 2014 of around 5% which feels low to people relative to some of the commentary you’ve given about expectations for very strong performance in the domestic market.
So could you kind of square for people the 2014 guidance relative to the strength we saw in the fourth quarter? It would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yes sure Dave.
Let me start and if I miss a piece just let me know.
I mean if you take a look at the bill-to-suite program that’s on of the highest areas that we can allocate capital.
We’re building for a customer generally under a master lease agreement with an anchor tenant around the globe and we expect very high rates of returns on that particular activity and so even if you look at – if you use TCF tower cash flow divided by cost its kind of a surrogate for a rate of return.
If you go back and you take a look at our 2009 towers that we built we are generating 20% rate or results on our international portfolio and over 10% on the U.S.
portfolio.
And so we are very excited about that program.
As I said they come with an anchored tenant and generally we will be looking for another tenant on that particular tower over the following 36 months if you will and that additional tenant then gets baked into quota for our local sales teams.
So it is a very high rate of return and we’ll continue to allocate as much capital as possible as we can for that particular category because of the ROI characteristics of it.
With regards to guidance we have I think perhaps a couple of things going on I guess.
I mean if you talk a look at the organic growth that we are seeing going on the market its terrific.
I mean its 8% to 9% really consistent with 2013 the new business run rate is almost identical to what it was in 2013 and with the spend that we see in the marketplace we’re excited about the opportunity there.
We layer on that growth with what we expect to be generated from the GTP transaction and the delta for GTP in 2014; it has $250 million to $260 million.
What we have that perhaps in working against that is the straight-line lease accounting in the United States which is upwards of about $40 million.
So that’s one element I think if you will David that could be cutting back on the incremental Q-to-Q type of growth.
I think if you take a look at the core growth that we are generating in the market though from a cash perspective I think its exciting as it was in 2013.
In the international markets again we have a couple of things.
We have 11% core gain or growth rate.
We have a little bit less pass through revenues that’s being generated in the year.
Its about $40 million versus I think it was upwards to $60 to $70 million in 2013 versus 2012 and that’s why we had core organic growth if you will and our international markets are up in the kind of the 12% to 14% range if you will and they are about 11%.
And then we’ve taken a – you can say a rather conservative approach with regards to looking at FX but we are looking to about $115 million of FX headwinds if you will across our footprint and the slightly different approach that I’ve taken this year is to not just look at the forecast for what FX will be by market around the globe but I’m also comparing that to the existing spot rates and I’m being the most conservative when taking the most conservative FX if you will relative to the sport rate or to the forecast.
That’s for the year that’s a slightly different approach I’ve taken this year versus last year.
Got it.
All right so that’s helpful Tom.
So I guess in the domestic market obviously there's always that issue of trying to make sure you are not reading too much into the GAAP numbers relative to the cash.
And then I know we had this issue last year where you used to look at the maybe the one-year forward rates and you've gotten more conservative on the FX.
So it's a new practice kind of being a little bit more conservative in using the spot FX rates.
Exactly.
Okay cool.
All right thank you very much.
And your final question will come from the line of Eric Frankel with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you very much.
I was wondering if you can go through your land purchase program and just talk about the increased guidance.
I’m assuming that is what's related to the increased tower count.
Yes largely.
I mean we’ve had a pickup in our land acquisition program over the last three years.
I mean our U.S.
tower land acquisition group have been terrific and they continue to up the anti in terms of the amount of the leases that they are impacting on a year-over-year basis.
We’ve increased the capital that we are going to spending on that program in 2014 as well as impacting about 2 000 other sites and its really just a function of I think the process that we built there.
Clearly we are brining on more sites from GTP with the 5 000 sites so there’s going to be an opportunity there.
But whatever I ask of our land accusation group up in our U.S.
tower group they deliver.
So I’m really proud of what they’ve done and as a result of it they’ve been able to significantly reduce the overall rent expense on a year over year basis.
Great thanks.
And then just regarding the ground lease extension is there a big step-up in the rent that you negotiated or is it pretty flat? I'm just kind of curious how that economics work related to the extend versus buy decision.
There is a modest increase at times.
So when the escalator is in the kind of 2% to 3% range so its not different than what it has been historically and really it just comes down to dealing with the landlord at a time what their interest are and to the extent that it makes sense for us to be able to buy.
Just due to the economics we’ll do that if not we’ll put it out on an extension and as Jim mentioned the average length on our portfolio is about 24 years.
Great.
And then finally just regarding your AFFO aspirations in a few years do you have an ideal land profile when you reach that target.
No I really don’t.
I mean the key is to look at the kind of the underlying economics of it.
We want to continue to knock out the average years if you will so that’s why we’ve taken it from some 20 years to 24 years and we just want to stay on top of it.
The group is roughly looking at leases that are expiring three or four years from now.
We have about a 100 parcels that will come due at any given year but we just look at it as we look at all of our investment activities on a very disciplined approach and when it make sense to acquire we’ll acquire and if it doesn’t we’ll continue to put it out on lease.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate everyone being on the call this morning.
Lee and I are here obviously to be able to answer any other phone calls and we appreciate all your attention.
Thank you.
Take heart.
Pitchers and catchers and others are already practicing in Florida so that’s good enough.
Bye everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
Thank you again for participating in today’s call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations and Treasurer</strong> Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower’s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning’s call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our first quarter results then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2014 and finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain certain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2014 outlook and future operating performance our expectation regarding future growth of our AFFO per share industry trends and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning’s press release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our first quarter 2014 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for approximately 98% of our total revenues which were generated primarily from leasing income producing real estate to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 23.5% to approximately $960 million from the first quarter of 2013.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA grew over 22% to approximately $640 million.
Operating income increased 18% to approximately $354 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation was approximately $202 million or $0.51 per basic and diluted common shares.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss the results in more detail.
Thanks Leah.
Good morning everyone.
As you can see from our press release we kicked off 2014 with a very strong quarter from both the revenue growth and margin perspective.
The network investment momentum that we saw built throughout 2013 in the U.S.
continues and we are also seeing our customers in international markets aggressively investing in their networks.
As a result we are raising our full year 2014 outlook for all of our key metrics.
If you please turn to Slide 6 our total rental and management revenue in the quarter increased by over 23% to $960 million on a core growth basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign exchange rate fluctuations non-cash straight line lease accounting and significant one-time items our total rental and management revenue growth was over 30%.
Of our Q1 core growth 11.5% was organic and was a result of a very strong quarter for commenced new business.
In fact during the quarter we experienced an increase of over 25% in commenced new business from the first quarter of 2013.
The balance of our core growth nearly 19% was attributable to properties we have acquired since the beginning of 2013 including the GTP and NII portfolios we acquired late last year.
We estimate that our top 10 global tenants will invest more than $40 billion in CapEx during 2014 into their wireless networks which we expect will continue to drive strong new business commitments throughout the year.
Turning to Slide 7 our domestic rental and management revenue growth in the quarter was over 23% with core growth of around 26%.
Domestic organic core growth was over 9% which consisted of over 3% from escalations and more than 7% from existing site revenue growth netted just over 1% from tenant churn.
This organic core growth reflects our tenants continued aggressive network investments in 4G.
Overall in the U.S.
roughly 60% of the commenced new business activity we saw the quarter outside of the holistic agreements was in the form of amendments compared to nearly 70% a year ago.
Also our new business pipeline reflects a split of 55% amendments and 45% co-locations.
This indicates to us that the shift towards densification from initial 4G coverage is well underway.
Accordingly we have increased our outlook for our domestic organic core growth to over 9% for 2014 up more than 50 basis points versus our prior expectations.
Domestic rental and management gross margin increased by more than 21% to over $514 million and grew by nearly 25% on a core basis.
Domestic organic gross margin core growth was 9.4% which reflects an 84% conversion rate for properties which we have owned since the beginning of 2013.
Also during the quarter we purchased or extended the remaining term on over 350 of our ground leases and now have an average of over 24 years remaining on our U.S.
land leases.
Finally we generated domestic rental and management operating profit growth of over 21% or about 25% on a core basis which reflects our continuing commitment to property level cost controls and disciplined spending on SG&amp;A expense.
Our SG&amp;A outperformance also included synergies above what we expected related to our acquisition of GTP.
Moving on to Slide 8 our international rental and management segment generated revenue growth of about 24% or over 38% on a core basis during the quarter.
Of this core growth about 16% was organic with the balance driven by more than 8 000 new assets we have added since the beginning of 2013.
As I mentioned earlier the new properties we acquired across our international markets over the past year are outperforming our original expectations.
And as a result have boosted our total revenue growth.
Similar to the U.S.
we continue to see a strong demand backdrop overseas as our tenants invest in various stages of their wireless network deployments.
Telefonica Airtel and Vodafone continued to be among the most aggressive carriers in building out their networks in our international markets.
International rental and management gross margin in the quarter grew 19% to about $198 million while core growth in gross margin was nearly 31%.
International organic gross margin core growth excluding pass through is about 14% which reflects an 87% gross margin conversion ratio.
Our international reported gross margin percentage excluding pass through was 82% which compares well to that gross margin percentage generated in our U.S.
business.
Our international rental and management segment operating profit margin grew almost 24% to $169 million while the operating profit percentage was 52%.
Excluding the effects of pass through revenue our international operating profit margin was nearly 70%.
Turning to Slide 9 our reported adjusted EBITDA growth in the quarter was over 22% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth at more than 28%.
Similar to prior quarters our adjusted EBITDA core growth was primarily attributable to our rental and management segment which generally represents recurring run rate contributions to EBITDA as opposed to the project oriented non-run rate nature of EBITDA generated by our services business.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin was over 65% and nearly flat versus the prior year period.
Despite the addition of nearly 14 000 new lower tenancy sites since the beginning of Q1 of 2013.
Excluding the impact of international pass through revenue our adjusted EBIT margin for the quarter was 71% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was 69%.
Cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue in the quarter was about 9%.
This strong EBITDA performance resulted in solid AFFO growth which increased to $439 million or about $1.10 per share.
AFFO and AFFO per share growth were both over 22%.
Core AFFO growth was more than 28% reflecting significant organic new business growth coupled with the addition of a number of AFFO accretive acquisitions.
Our adjusted EBITDA to AFFO conversion during the quarter was about 70%.
As we said we continue to target at least mid-teen core AFFO per share growth and believe that we are well-positioned to achieve our goals of doubling 2012 AFFO per share by 2017.
Turning to Slide 10 as in the past we remained very disciplined with regards to our capital deployment strategy.
Our goal is to simultaneously fund growth return cash to our stockholders and maintain the strong balance sheet.
In the first quarter we declared a dividend of $0.32 per share or approximately $127 million spend about $214 million on CapEx and paid down roughly $160 million in debt.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we acquired about 60 towers in the U.S.
which are currently utilized mostly by radio and television broadcasters.
This transaction accounts for much of the $450 million in total consideration that we have spent on acquisitions so far this year and includes the assumption of about $197 million in secured debt.
We expect that our primary method of returning capital to stockholders for the rest of the year will be through our redistribution.
The amounts and timing of our dividend payments are at the discretion of our board but our goal continues to deliver annual dividend growth of over 20%.
Since the end of 2013 we have lowered our net leverage by nearly 0.5 turn to 5.5 times on an LQA basis.
This result was driven by increased adjusted EBITDA and a debt repayment during the quarter.
We continue to maintain a long-term target range of between 3 to 5 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA and expect to be back around 5 times within the next year through a combination of continued debt repayment and adjusted EBITDA growth.
We have maintained significant liquidity.
And as of the end of the quarter had more than $300 million in cash on hand and about $2.8 billion in capacity under our credit facilities with our average remaining term of debt at about 5.5 years and an average cost of approximately 4% we remain committed to having a solid balance sheet.
Turning to Slide 11 based on the strong customer demand trends we are seeing across our footprint coupled with the recently closed U.S.
Tower acquisition we are raising our full year 2014 outlook for rental and management segment revenue by $70 million at the midpoint to $3.94 billion.
About $7 million of the increase is attributable to organic revenue outperformance in our domestic business with an additional $28 million or so driven by the recently closed U.S.
acquisition.
The balance of the increase is being driven by our international operations including $6 million attributable to organic revenue outperformance $10 million increase in past due revenue and an anticipated benefit of approximately $19 million from foreign currency relative to our prior outlook.
We are raising our domestic organic revenue core growth expectations for the year to over 9% an increase of approximately 50 basis points from our prior outlook.
In addition we now expect our international organic revenue core growth to be around 13% for the year an increase of 200 basis points from our prior outlook.
The M&amp;A transactions we have closed prior to 2013 are contributing meaningfully to this organic core outperformance.
For example assets we acquired from Telefonica in Mexico generated organic tenant revenue growth of nearly 39% in the first quarter.
Similarly assets acquired from Telefonica in Brazil generated organic tenant revenue growth of 26%.
So our strategy of acquiring less mature higher growth assets in international markets continues to significantly boost our organic growth rates.
In addition the portfolios we have acquired over the last year are also outperforming expectations.
Lease up on the U.S.
GTP assets for example is coming in stronger than originally expected and in fact outpacing the growth we are seeing on the rest of our domestic towers.
We are also increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $50 million at the midpoint.
This includes an expected $20 million contribution from the recently acquired U.S.
Tower portfolio and about $15 million from other domestic and corporate outperformance including greater than expected synergies from our GTP acquisition.
In addition about $15 million of the increase is attributable to our international business including about $10 million due to foreign currency.
On a consolidated basis we now expect core growth in adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be over 24%.
Finally we are raising our full year AFFO outlook ($10) reflecting the increase in core adjusted EBITDA partially offset by the incremental cash interest expense we have assumed with the recent acquisition.
We now expect to generate AFFO growth of nearly 19% for the year or over 22% on a core basis.
So turning to Slide 12 and in summary we have started the year off strong.
Organic core revenue growth in the U.S.
continues to benefit as our tenants expand and densify their networks.
Our international segment continues to generate organic core revenue growth rates several hundred basis points above the historically strong U.S.
rates driven by tenants like Airtel Vodafone and Telephonica who are making significant investments in their networks.
We saw strong lease-up on our newly acquired GTP portfolio in the U.S.
and have also been very pleased with the leasing momentum on our newly integrated NII assets in Brazil and Mexico.
We added more than 650 new assets during the quarter to our build to suit program and also picked up 60 high quality U.S.
towers in early April to further cement our leading tall tower position in the U.S.
We expect that these types of towers may also be a platform for fixed broadband wireless video in the future.
We also maintained our strong track record of growing adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share with both growing over 22%.
In addition we declared a dividend of $0.32 per share or about $127 million representing our ninth straight quarter of dividend increases and an increase of more than 23% as compared to the first quarter of 2013.
And we were able to achieve these strong results while reducing our leverage ratio from 5.9 times to 5.5 times during the quarter keeping us on track to return to our target leverage ratio range in early 2015.
We believe we are well positioned to sustain this momentum and as a result are raising our 2014 outlook across all of our key metrics.
Customer application levels for space on our towers are at record levels giving us tremendous visibility into new business growth on our existing assets throughout the rest of the year.
At the same time we continue to actively evaluate incremental acquisition opportunities which we would fund in an essentially leverage neutral manner maintaining the integrity of our balance sheet.
And with that I will turn the call over to Jim for some closing remarks before we take some Q&amp;A.
Jim? President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tom and good morning to everyone on the call today.
I will continue our practice of focusing on a specific theme that provides a deeper perspective on the key aspects of our business.
As you may recall during the fourth quarter call we provided an in dept update on our long-term strategic plan and key aspirational goals for the company over the five year period.
Today I will focus on the strong domestic wireless investment environment and the resultant performance of our U.S.
operations.
During our second quarter call later this year I will cover a similar update on our international segment.
Then on the third quarter call our focus will turn to the fundamental trends in wireless technology which we believe will continue to drive network investment and ultimately long-term growth for the tower business.
So as of the first quarter of 2014 our U.S.
leasing business comprised about two-thirds of our total revenue and nearly 75% of our total operating profit.
With aggressive investments in domestic 4G deployments continuing we remain focused on optimizing our high quality asset base and enhancing our strong customer contracts and relationships.
These operational initiatives are designed to maximize the generation of consistent organic growth while we simultaneously continue to pursue AFFO accretive acquisitions and construction projects in the U.S.
So today I will specially cover how our domestic organic growth has historically correlated to U.S.
wireless industry investments how current to consumer technology and industry trends will continue to support continued robust wireless industry investments over the next decade how American Tower is uniquely positioned to capitalize on these domestic trends because of our high quality portfolio and strategic approach to structuring our master lease agreement.
And finally we’ll review the performance of our recently acquired GTP portfolio which is already as Tom said pacing ahead of our internal initial expectations.
So let’s start with underlying investment trends we’ve seen in the U.S.
wireless industry and how our business is benefited from those.
Over the past several years of experience a fairly strong correlation between domestic carriers aggregate CapEx and our level of organic growth in American Tower.
For example from 2010 to 2012 we saw aggregate spend on wireless CapEx of about $25 billion to $30 billion supporting our organic core growth rates in the range of 7% to 8% during those years.
Beginning in 2013 we then saw wireless CapEx spending ramp-up to nearly $35 billion a year and has since experienced elevated levels of organic leasing growth beyond our target range and the areas of 9%.
In fact during the first quarter our domestic segment once again outperformed their own expectations generating organic core growth in the quarter of 9.2%.
This growth which was a 120 basis points above the high end of our long-term targeted range of 6% to 8% was driven by a combination of contractual escalators co-locations amendments and payments tied to our holistic master agreements and all net of churn.
This correlation is possible due to two key benefits associated with our holistic MLAs churn mitigation and the preservation of incremental growth opportunity in cases where our tenants find the need to make additional investments to support network demand beyond what they had originally anticipated.
As a result of these two key factors American Tower is uniquely protected against volatility in revenue growth.
For example since implementing these holistic agreements we’ve reduced our annual domestic churn rate by an average of over 50 basis points and the contribution from our tenant enhanced equipment investments is steadily increased over recent quarters and added over 70 basis points to our organic growth during Q1.
As a result we are uniquely positioned to capitalize on the investments that wireless carriers are making in their networks as a result of our holistic agreements.
We believe that these investment trends will continue for at least the next several years since subscriber adoption of 4G devices and advanced wireless services is outpacing the capabilities of today’s wireless networks.
And the industry is still in an early stage of 4G upgrade cycle.
According to reports from Cisco as of year-end 2013 4G handset penetration in U.S.
was still only 26% and it is projected increased to about 33% by the end of this year.
Looking forward the number of U.S.
4G smartphone connections is projected to then double to between 2013 and 2018 where 4G tablet connections expected to triple between those years.
Furthermore additional devices such as 4G smart watches Google Glass and other wearables are just beginning to hit the market.
All told device per capita are expected to double by year end 2018 and we think that will be a company with ongoing significant demand for leasing on our towers.
Compounding the level of strain that accelerating subscribe adoption places on networks is a rapidly expanding network demand per device as consumers engaged in high bandwidth applications such as video music and gaming.
At year end 2012 average daily usage on smartphones was approximately 880 megabits a month which then rose by almost 40% to more than 1.2 gigabits per month in 2013.
Similarly tablet data usage increased by over 50% to more than 2 gigabits per month from 2012 to 2013.
Consequently when you combined the additional devices and the additional usage per device aggregate wireless network utilization is quickly increasing.
So the combination of the increasing numbers of high end smartphones and tablets significantly higher utilization per unit and a consumer focus on quality of service is intern requiring carriers to continuously augment their networks.
As a result carrier wireless capital spending in 2014 is once again expected to see historical ranges significantly at nearly $35 billion.
In the American Tower we are seeing first hand others ramp-up and carrier spending is translating and the significant leasing activity on our sites and our operations teams have been busier than ever processing application associated with these raising levels of new business.
In fact as you heard our domestic application volumes in the first quarter were up 51% versus the first quarter of 2013.
Now one of the most critical challenges to wireless networks is the impacts the ever increasing bandwidth requirements for mobile video provide.
While in 2013 mobile video as a percentage of total data usage was 56% by year end 2018 this is expected to rise nearly 70% or overall Cisco projects that mobile data usage will in turn grow by nearly ten-fold over this time period and that’s going place tremendous demands on the existing networks.
Our analysis indicates that nearly 80% of this rise in traffic will be carried over the macro networks which is primarily composed of towers like the nearly 28 000 we have across the U.S.
While we expect macro supplements such a small tech – small cell technology to help our tenants alleviate network burden in specific locations primarily in dense urban areas it’s important to remember that 83% of the U.S.
population resides in suburban or rural areas which are almost exclusively served by tower based macro sites.
We therefore anticipate that the classic cell tower will continue to serve as the core infrastructure to effectively deploy 4G services nationwide.
Today the macro tower portion of our business generates over 95% of our revenues that we expect our towers to capture the lion share of the projected growth in mobile data.
In addition our nearly 300 distributing antenna systems in the U.S.
which include approximately 9 000 active nodes as well as our other small cell initiatives allow us to provide those supplemental solutions in indoor and dense urban locations that require a highly targeted capacity and coverage augmentation.
We anticipate that a number of additional drivers will further support strong domestic organic growth during our five year planning period.
For example the deployment of Voice-over-LTE service or VoLTE is one of the technology trends that we have highlighted in the past.
And we anticipate that this will result in continued strong demand for tower space.
Verizon and AT&amp;T are already planning their VoLTE rollouts with commercial launches expected to begin within the next 12 months.
And our analysis to ensure the same quality of service voice calls that travel via data packets over the internet necessitate greater cell site density compared to voice required to support classic circuit switch voice calls.
It’s our belief that in order to rollout VoLTE effectively carriers will both eventually need to increase the density of their networks by up to 20% to 30% over time.
In addition to VoLTE we expect that build out of the public safety network will generate incremental leasing opportunity on our sites over the five year period.
With either dedicated network or with existing carriers deploying additional spectrum for the purposes of FirstNet we can capture incremental revenue opportunities via this public safety network probably during the latter half of this decade.
Similarly we also anticipate a future rollout of (business) spectrum to be a revenue generating event for us over the long-term whether it’s through collaboration with an existing carrier or through an independent build out as a new wireless entrant perhaps in league with another company such as Google or Microsoft.
Furthermore phenomena such as multicast machine to machine technology are also expected to create additional sources of network demand for many years to come.
Through multicasting data and video can be transmitted to multiple recipients more effectively making it easier to send high bandwidth services such as streaming media through the airways.
Additional applications are machine to machine wireless communications are also becoming more prevalent.
Of the millions of machine to machine connections already that exist today the vast majority of these are running on 2G and 3G network technology.
Wireless contracts with users of these embedded M2M devices for such applications like tracking shipping containers managing package delivery fleets and monitoring utilities typically involves very long-term for multi-year service contracts.
Consequently we anticipate that wireless carriers are going to have to extend the lifecycle of the legacy 2G or 3G technologies and the continued installation and operation of a substantial amount of legacy antenna and other hardware will remain on our sites.
It’s also important to note own machine to machine technology is becoming increasingly complex with services like the connected car and eventually the autonomous vehicle in the pipeline the reliability and efficiency of the next generation of network will need to support these services and the additional use of these capabilities will generate – will be very significant.
Our domestic tower portfolio and master lease agreements have been deliberately developed over the years to optimize long-term revenue growth or containing churn risk in controlling operational expenses and redevelopment CapEx.
For today our domestic tower site have an average tendency of 2.5 average height of 210 feet and the structural capacity to hold on average between 4 to 5 visible tenants.
Therefore we have nearly half of our tower structural capacity and plenty of height available for new platforms and equipment.
Over our existing domestic towers have virtually no reserve rates due to asset acquisition or lease – sublease contracts or equipments that will further limit this available capacity.
We also own the land underneath or have ground lease terms for at least 20 years associated with 60% of our properties and we have a goal of increasing this metric up to 80% within this next five years.
As I discussed in our first quarter call our U.S.
portfolio largely consist of assets build by America Tower or those we have strategically acquired from select sources which are primarily engineering driven companies such as AirTouch Alltel Nextel SpectraSite and GTP.
The properties we acquired from these major sources were built through accommodate the structural demands of anticipated additional equipment and we are therefore historically needed minimal CapEx to support additional revenue on our sites.
In fact over the last four years we’ve only spent average approximately $1 000 per site per year on redevelopment CapEx.
Our ability to offer sites of existing capacity to our tenants as we have aggressively worked towards 4G upgrades has been a strength for the business.
At American Tower it’s our operational objective they continue to serve our tenants with the best asset base we can and to be the preferred provider of communication real-estate.
A crucial aspect of our ability to achieve this is our unique approach to structuring our master lease agreements.
In 2010 we pioneered the first holistic MLA and today we have three out of four of our major tenants operating under this type of contract.
Through these arrangements we are not only established a guaranteed increase in baseline of new business annually and benefited from an equipment rights requested by our customers on a substantial number of sites.
We’ve also insulated the business from major churn events such as Sprint’s IND commissioning.
By strategically mitigating this risk we have been able to defend our baseline level of business and focus our efforts on the upside opportunities resolving from the strong 4G leasing activity.
It’s our view that the American Tower is relatively higher portfolio of quality combined with our disciplined approach to structuring MLAs has enabled us to achieve industry leading organic core growth in 2014.
We continue to supplement our solid organic leasing growth with disciplined investments in new sites is shown immediate accretion to AFFO.
Our recent acquisitions of the GTP portfolio is a prime example of how we’ve been successful through our selective M&amp;A activity.
Today we are largely compete with integration of those assets in operations and GTP’s performance is already pacing ahead of our expectations.
As we have previously discussed the GTP sites are a strong complement to our legacy asset base including in top 10 markets such as LA Atlanta and Chicago where our combined portfolio has it strongest presence.
Together the location characteristics and structural robustness of the sites we acquired from GTP which were originally built for co-location that already enable us to generate strong leasing activity and we believe the GTP assets will contribute meaningfully to our ability to generate substantial organic core growth for many years to come.
Now subsequent to the end of the first quarter you heard from Tom that we also completed the acquisition of a marquee portfolio of 60 primarily broadcast communication sites from Richland Towers.
This transaction not only reinforces our position as a leader in U.S.
for tall towers but it also enables us to begin aggressive marketing of the acquired properties to our wireless tenants.
We believe that the growth potential on the wireless side is strong and because of the structural nature of the tall tower portfolio minimal CapEx will be required to accommodate new tenants.
As a result the Richland portfolio is not only immediately accretive to AFFO but also provides us with significant opportunity for additional cash flow generation.
As we look forward to the robust demand trends in U.S.
we fully expect the newly acquired sites to drive incremental growth in AFFO per share for the company.
So to summarize the constant demand environment we are experiencing today in U.S.
is one of the strongest we have seen.
Numerous factors indicate that these favorable trends are poised to continue for many years to come as a result of the expansion of 4G mobile broadband.
Over the coming years we believe that the resulting tower growth and tower leasing will be augmented by additional opportunities including VoLTE the public safety network multicasting and expanding machine to machine services.
We expect that in combination these strong demand drivers coupled with our quality U.S.
portfolio and solid contractual arrangements will help us to continue generating at least 6% to 8% organic core growth in our domestic business during our current planning period.
Our international segment continues to grow at an even faster pace.
And during our second quarter call we will go into greater detail on what’s driving the growth in our markets outside the U.S.
We expect our combined U.S.
and international businesses will generate the consistent strong cash flow growth required to meet our aspirational goal of again doubling our 2012 AFFO per share by the year 2017.
And with that operator let’s open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital.
Yes good morning.
So I was interested in the increase in your domestic organic core growth guidance and what specifically are you seeing at the carriers and what types of projects are you seeing that are driving the higher outlook.
And then on the international markets I wondered if you can maybe just kind of give the high point of what you are seeing in terms of leasing drivers on both legacy and newly acquired sites in Mexico Brazil as well as in India? Thank you.
Sure Jonathan it’s Jim.
So some of the major current drivers in the U.S.
include Verizon transitioning from its coverage phase to its densification phase of its 4G LTE rollout.
And we are seeing increasing co-location application from Verizon network converting to contracts during the current year at a greater pace that we have had in the past.
So that’s one piece.
AT&amp;T is also continuing to build out across markets both on the amendment side and in some cases on the co-location side now.
And we are also building a high number of towers is an example for AT&amp;T as they fill another white space.
So AT&amp;T has also have been every accurate.
And then Sprint T-Mobile have contributed meaningfully to mainly on the amendment side but also through some of the enhanced rights that you are asking for on specific sites to go over and above the holistic agreement.
So it’s really across the board all four international carriers are active and contributing in the U.S.
And then just turning to international just to give you a couple of highlights and for example Mexico this continued 3G rollout by Telefonica cells become more active and Nextel is of course continuing its network transition and very much on our sites of those projects.
Brazil is similar with sort of every carrier out for 3G deployment and some initiating 4G as you know.
We will really stepped up that’s the Telefonica subsidiary in Brazil and as try to I think really enhances pacing of 3G deployment.
But at the same time Nextel is active and Telefonica Italia as well over the last quarter or so.
And then the entering India it’s really stabilizing as for as the regulatory environment and therefore the major carriers have ramped up there build plans again so Bharti Airtel was one of our biggest customers in the first quarter Idea Vodafone etcetera.
So it’s the big encumbrance that are taking their new spectrum and understanding of how the market is going to play out and starting to reimburse more heavily in the network.
So that’s kind of the major landscape all the countries in the business hit or exceeded the plans we have for them in the first quarter.
So it’s really in Africa it’s in Latin America it’s in Asia carriers are stepping up and deploying 3G and networks.
Jon.
And then just on the U.S.
we increased as I mentioned of our 50 basis points and it’s a function of just high levels of applications as we mentioned there up 50% versus what they were last year or so.
Application volume this is very very high.
And it’s also the mix.
It’s a little bit more quick mix than I originally thought in terms of moving to colos and amendments.
And amendments it’s a good solid revenue at kind of an average amendment in the U.S.
in the 600 to 700 range but it’s over three times that or roughly three times that on a co-location.
So it’s a function of both mix and just volume which is driving the increase in the organic core growth.
And if I could follow-up briefly on DAS which you mentioned are there particular regions and venues versus outdoor versus indoor that kind of strike you as having the most opportunity? Look domestically in the U.S.
it’s mainly indoor right now Jonathan.
There are upgrades going from 3G to 4G in a lot of the big properties like casinos and some of the major malls that’s driving a lot of it.
AT&amp;T and we are collaborating on new properties to try to figure out what’s the most attractive place to do build-outs and serve them in that way.
So it’s mainly the 3G to 4G upgrade in the indoor along with new properties that we are building out at this point in time.
And Jonathan just on that just adding to what Jim has said in the indoor side we are seeing kind of north of two tenants per tower by closely to 2.4 tenants versus the outdoor which are 1.4 1.5.
So our focus on the indoor DAS is really where we want to be.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Batya Levi with UBS.
Great thanks.
Just to follow-up on the level of activity you are seeing from Sprint and T-Mobile are they spending beyond their holistic MLAs today? And does your guidance include any activity on T-Mobile’s 700 A Block which would close soon and Sprint 2.5 deployment which I believe they expect to pass $100 million props by year end? Thank you.
There is what we call over and above activity standard request for traditional rights in both of those cases.
Batya T-Mobile has probably been a little more active.
As you have heard us recently this morning and last night they have had a lot of success in subscriber growth and therefore meeting that growth with more network investment we are helping them with that.
This part of 700 megahertz that’s probably going to be more of a 2015 active field deployment if you will so the planning is going on now but lease commencements are likely to kick in more in the 2015 calendar year.
And then Sprint 2.5 is starting to rollout but it’s again very complex project it’s going on simultaneously with the not yet completed 1.9 original network vision project.
So it’s all incorporated but the 2.5 gigahertz deployment will last for a number of years and really ramp up probably more next year.
But one other point on the 2.5 we are estimating that in addition to 38 000 network vision sites that are kind of on the docket with Sprint they probably need another 30 000 or 40 000 transmission locations ultimately to have 2.5 coverage match the 1.9 network at the end of the day.
So it should be a long-term as I said multiyear project to get that signal out there.
Okay great.
And your next question comes from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Hello this is (indiscernible) for Simon.
Just wanting to get your take on future acquisitions and how you balance that with your leverage target are you thinking of any new or existing markets to enter now the slides mentioned the strong M&amp;A pipeline internationally? Thank you.
We are continuing to seek new assets in all of our served markets and some that are adjacent in the territories in the regions as we have deployed just like we had before.
So our deployed management teams in the regions are continuing to meet with counterparties and customers and get involved in due diligence and exploration of new assets.
At the same time we are cognitive of our leverage glide slope we like to be on.
So I will basically say from the strategic side its business is usual at American Tower domestically and around the world and I will let Tom give a couple of comments on how we will manage to leverage through that.
Yes.
I mean as I mentioned we ended the quarter at 5.5 times net leverage on an LQA basis down about half a turn from the 5.9 level as of the end of the year.
Our goal is to be able to de-lever back down to that 5 times over the next 9 to 12 months or so through a combination as I mentioned of expected EBITDA growth and selected debt repayments.
We continue to value our investment grade rating and balance sheet flexibility and overall believe that our balance sheet strength is clearly a competitive advantage.
So to the extent that we are able to leverage our active deal pipeline to find accretive acquisition opportunities this year we will fund them in a manner which will enable us to hit our year end in early 2015 leverage targets.
And we have a number of different products that we can used to do that.
Thank you very much.
And your next question comes from Michael Bowen with Pacific Crest.
Okay.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Question with regard to GTP portfolio you mentioned that lease up was stronger than anticipated I was wondering if you could give us any incremental detail around that and how much depending upon what detail you can give how much of the increasing organic core growth with international was a result of the GTP tower portfolio? Thanks.
Yes.
The international portfolio was not really I think we have Costa Rica and Panama but there was no real increase relative to that organic growth.
On the U.S.
please keep in mind that we know 5 000 towers that we are able to put in front of all of our customers.
And so the 9.2% organic core growth that we saw in the U.S.
but in the high 9s relative to GTP as I mentioned before outpacing the overall growth of legacy U.S.
portfolio.
So we remain – really excited about the portfolio.
We also – I also mentioned that the synergy levels are higher than we originally thought and we originally had talked about a $10 million synergy number for 2014 and now we are looking upwards of $17 million to $18 million.
So much of the SG&amp;A outperformance that we see for the balance of the year is really due to the GTP incremental synergies which is really driving to that 9% of SG&amp;A.
And keep in mind that our organic core growth doesn’t include any revenue contribution from sites that we have acquired in 2013.
The way we calculate organic core growth are on those assets that we have owned for at least a year and so the GTP and the NII sites are largely going to be driven in the overall core growth metrics that we talked about.
Okay.
And then quickly with regard to AT&amp;T you mentioned in our call that you are building towers for AT&amp;T I think they said they had added about 1 000 macro towers can you give us any feel for the relative benefit you are seeing from AT&amp;T with regard to that tower build versus the other two tower companies? Well just overall as it’s important to point out deployments for carriers are largely in the form of co-location right.
So if it’s 1000 per carrier that put out new cell sites the vast majority of those tend to be on existing towers in the industry.
That is the first reminder.
Secondly we don’t really speak to specific volumes for a customer for what is build to suite co-location with them.
But what the trend is it’s important to remember here is carriers are needing to deploy sites to make their networks more dense because they need higher signals and noise ratio higher signal strength in the network to deliver the new services and also the capacity is really kind of requiring additional sites and equipment for the transmission.
So those are the few things to remember and for our specific customers we cannot speak to go the numbers related to each of those.
Okay thank you.
And your next question comes from Ric Prentiss with Raymond James.
Thanks guys.
I will try to be brief it’s a busy earnings day.
First very exciting organic growth I appreciate you guys lying out all the details there.
I wanted to touch a little further on the external or the M&amp;A growth.
On Richland can you tell us what the annualized effect would be I know you shared with us as far as the change in guidance but don’t want to annualize it incorrectly if we don’t know the actual close day.
Nextel you guys still have some maybe about 1000 towers also between Nextel Brazil you have not closed yet do you still expect to close those.
And then the final M&amp;A question is as you look at balancing the risk because very visible business FX had some volatility how are you guys going balance that basket of international for future growth? A Rick let me start off on that the purposes of Richland the total annual revenues is just under $40 million I think $39 million of revenue and $30 million of TCF so that gives you a little bit of sense on that particular portfolio and with regard to – you’re right we had – we have about another 1000 or so sites that we have to close and their subject due diligence in customer closing condition so the timing on all of those is uncertain and that we obviously have not included any impact from potential subsequent closings in our current outlook numbers.
So right there is things that look at sense and permits and other important aspects of individual sites we just got work away through them for the rest of the year.
We still expect to close those by the end of the year though.
We’re working towards that just typically not all sites in a portfolio end up closing take the majority of them do so I think that’s our best way to look at it.
And then as far as the global risk balancing if you will let me just start off Rick with the original numbers from the prepared remarks which is the U.S.
is our based business is two-thirds of the revenue line is by 70% 75% of the non-pass through revenue line and a 75% of the operating profit so the U.S.
is the base business and our international is meant to complement in the first slide right and what’s interesting about the way the math work over a 5 or 10 year time arrival is the U.S.
will continue to grow robustly as we’ve kind of outlined today and on top of that we think at a faster growing albeit from a smaller base international business.
So remember the purpose of international is to accelerate growth diversified the sources and so it is inherently in our view of risk mitigating strategy.
Within international then we have further mitigating the risk within that segment by diversifying internally to the international a number of dimensions right so we don’t put too many eggs in anyone basket whether it’s a continent whether it’s a country whether it’s a counterparty whether it’s a technology and work technology cycle of timing.
So we’ve got for example activity in 2G in places like India and Uganda we’ve got activity in 3G in Latin America India and throughout Africa.
We’ve got activity in 4G in Germany and U.S.
and now in India so we diversified across technologies we diversified across continents we’re on five continents now and was really important is when we diversify across customers those customers are in multiple countries.
These are the multinational at Telefonica America Mobile MTN Alltel those kinds of companies creates an interesting fabric if you will which is we try to pick countries which again we risk medicated and we take counterparties that we try to view across those countries to create a really strong fabric and that’s kind of the other concept of risk mitigation.
So those are the kind of the key dimensions that I would offer rate that if any each in every deal and build the suit inside or outside the U.S.
to scrutinize substantially by both the regional team and here the executive team and if it’s size by the board.
So we feel we’ve got a lot of risk management applied to both frankly the domestic and the international business.
Yes.
And as Jim alluded to we expect much higher rates of returns coming from these markets on a risk adjusted basis.
So we are looking for anywhere from the kind of the low double-digits teens in the LatAm up to some markets that we have in Africa up to 18% to 20%.
So we do risk adjust on these as you well know as well.
That’s great.
And I appreciate the way you guys are giving guidance this year I like to see the Brazilian reais there around 2 3 5 in the guidance that’s seems to be nice and conservative still.
Great thanks Rick.
Thanks and good day.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Hi this is Richard for Phil.
I want to get a sense I don’t know if you have it offhand but overlap exposure you have now between Sprint and T-Mobile? Sure it’s Jim.
We have got 5% total revenue on our rental and management segment.
Overlap on towers for T-Mobile and Sprint are both present.
That’s now 5 000 sites.
What’s important about that overlap is the remaining term which averages between the two companies at seven years.
So we renegotiated holistic agreements as you will recall with both Sprint and T-Mobile over the last couple of years.
Those had certain 9 to 10 year tails on them when we negotiated them and there is 7 years left.
So it’s a modest manageable and discuss in terms of time overlap.
And just as a reminder as we have analyzed previous mergers in the industry whether this one is consummated or not we have real data on those that happen consummated at an all three cases whether it was Sprint Nextel Verizon Alltel or AT&amp;T Wireless or Cingular are free deal revenue streams increased by on average 25% post merger.
So I need to further invest in the network and two parties oftentimes feel that they can do that more effectively together than apart.
And so it’s usually constructive for the tower industry in the end.
And to clarify on earlier statement you made I guess there is 30 000 network vision sites to mesh the 1.9 with the 2.5 – are you saying Sprint needs an incremental 30 000 to 40 000 sites? Well that’s a theoretical construct whereas you wanted to have the same coverage on 2.5Gs you did on – as you do on 38 000 now our vision sites at 1.9.
Then you are going to have to have an incremental 30 000 to 40 000 sites.
So it’s a theoretical construct just wanted to have the same single strength and coverage as you do on network vision or technical assessment issue have to have significantly more sites not sure Sprint is ever going to go that far but if they wanted to that’s the order of magnitude that might take.
Great that should probably help drive you for a while.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Barden with Bank of America.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just two if I could.
First I guess for you Tom just on the Richland acquisition could you kind of share what incremental kind of revenues/EBITDA contributions that contributed to the guidance change for the year? And then just second maybe Jim on your comments about obviously the current strength in the business core business which appears to be growing in the U.S.
over 9% some of the commentary you laid out about the drivers in the next couple of years but then your kind of long-term growth of 6% to 8%.
Could you kind of talk about how you see the current 9% plus growth in the current environment kind of stepping down to that 6% to 8% and over what timeframe and kind of what leads to that? Maybe it’s just law of large numbers over time but it feels like all the drivers right now would lead you to believe that maybe the next couple of years are higher than 6% to 8% but I would love your perspective on that? Thanks.
Hey Dave on the first question relative to the Richland acquisition of the $70 million increase in our rental and management revenue Richland represented $28 million of that and of the $50 million increase in EBITDA Richland represented $20 million of that and is largely driving the incremental AFFO by $5 million so very accretive for us 2014.
As I suggested in the prepared remarks regarding growth rates and industry CapEx the aggregate industry CapEx that stays at $30 billion to $35 billion a year of level over the next few years we think of course will support greater than 6% to 8% for organic revenue growth for us and so that’s our best parameter and we’re going to work closely with the carriers but in the end of the day they’re going to decide what the CapEx budgets and the rollout deployments plans are and again that’s another reason for diversification outside the U.S.
is because if there ever is attenuation below the 9.5% or 9.2% the U.S.
that will be about the time that 4G is taking in some of other markets so that would help to boost the total company growth rate whatever happen that way.
Great thanks.
And then Tom if I could just do a quick follow-up so I think the revenue for the first quarter seems to have come in maybe $10 million stronger than what people expected.
So rolling that through the year that’s a $40 million revenue beat.
And then this acquisition at Richland is $28 million so we get to $70 million.
We have got some foreign currency tailwinds on the new expectations which even take us north of there.
So it kind of feels like based on the commentary that you are kind of teeing up fairly conservative revenue implications inside the guide for the second third and fourth quarters or is there some other headwind that’s going to come into play here that we should think about? Yes I mean I have kind of walked you through David in terms of what the kind of four pieces were the FX being $19 million pass-through of $9 million Richland of $28 million and the outperformance of $14 million kind of $7 million in U.S.
and roughly $7 million in the international markets.
On the first quarter we do have some escalation impacts from some of the holistic and some of those types of things.
So I think that right now is a fair kind of what we would see the year to be at and to the extent that we see any more activity obviously we will continue to update the guidance as we move throughout the year.
Got it.
Alright great thanks guys.
And our last question comes from Amir Rozwadowski with Barclays.
Thank you very much.
And I was wondering if you could touch upon sort of the margin trajectory from your international business I mean it does seem as though while you folks are looking at healthy other opportunities in those markets a lot of the investment has gone into expanding the footprint in those market where you see the best opportunity.
Looking at some inside in terms of how we should think about sort of the trajectory of that business as you start to build up additional co-location and some of the seeds that you planted and some of these markets begin to bear fruit? Yes it’s really a function of our continued investment in those markets in the form of new acquisitions versus the kind of the growth of the legacy businesses I mean if in fact we just stopped investing in those markets I think you will see the same kind of trajectory as you would see in our U.S.
businesses I mean the import organic core growth – gross margins without pass through is about 87%.
So we’re seeing really solid conversation rates in those legacy international markets consistent with what we would see in the U.S.
which is in the kind of 85% level at the gross margin level.
But we do continue investing in those markets.
So it’s the average tendency is about 1.5 versus the U.S.
which is about 2.5 so it’s the mix we like to be able to walk and chew gum at the same time in terms of driving the top-line growth rate as well as being able to create a real long-term sustainable path for our sales.
But longer term there is no reason that they shouldn’t be able to get to the kind – on the same kind of path is our U.S.
operations.
Amir this is Jim.
Just to put a point on that if you go back to the analogy of vintages of towers like fine wine the older the tower the more leasing it’s going to have the higher the margins they are going to be.
Our return on invested capital in towers we have owned in say even Mexico for the past 10-year timeframe those are north of 20% return on investments kinds of sites.
And operating – the gross margins are going to be outside of pass-through in the 90% range.
So as Tom said basically it becomes asymptotic to the U.S.
level as the international markets grow and mature.
That’s very helpful.
And if I may one quick follow-up switching back to the U.S.
you folks in your prepared remarks spoke about some of the initiatives ongoing with the carrier such as VoLTE which are seem to be driving some densification opportunities.
In your discussions with those folks how much of this is a priority for the carriers? And the reason I ask is it does sound like if there is an opportunity to free up voice spectrum to utilize for data getting there sooner rather than later maybe opportune for them given what we re seeing in terms of rising traffic? And I am wondering if that potentially could accelerate densification investments or how we should think about that? Yes I think that logic tree is exactly what’s going on Amir whether the carriers are seeing sort of the burgeoning data demand coming through led by video and other applications that are high-bandwidth like music and games and things.
And so they would like to move some of the voice dedicated spectrum with the 3G spectrum over to 4G where it can be used for by LTE it can be used for voice and for data in a very efficient way as you said.
So the tradeoffs then is what’s the densification of the infrastructure rate that I need to get the spectrum moved over and maintain my quality of service both for data and for voice and to replace a circuit switch network this traditional sort of single signal path from one voice user to another to replace that with an internet-based packet network you just got to have higher signal-to-noise ratio in the early part of that call and to have that higher signal-to-noise ratio you have to have sites closer to your handset and more dense therefore.
Those are the equations that these guys are calculating and trying to figure out what the right rate of migration is going to be for each company.
Thank you for the incremental color.
Yes.
Investor Relations and Treasurer</strong> Great.
And with that operator we can end the call.
Thank you everyone for joining.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Yes thanks for joining everybody.
Have a great week.
And that does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our Web site.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our second quarter results then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2014 and finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2014 outlook and future operating performance our expectation regarding future growth our AFFO per share industry trends and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2014 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our second quarter 2014 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for approximately 98% of our total revenue which were generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 27.4% from the quarter ended 2013 to over $1 billion.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA was 30.2% to approximately $682 million adjusted funds from operations increased to 29.4% to approximately $474 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation's common stockholder with approximately $230 million or $0.58 per basic and diluted common share.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah good morning everyone.
As you can see from our press release we had another strong quarter in both our domestic and international businesses.
Aggressive carrier or 4G deployments in the U.S.
continue and the demand for tower space in our international markets also remain strong as wireless services become increasingly ubiquitous.
As a result we are again raising our full year 2014 outlook for all of our key metrics.
If you please turn to Slide 6; our total rental and management revenue in the quarter increased by more than 27% to over $1 billion.
On a core growth basis which we will reference throughout this presentation as reported results excluding the impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations non-cash straight line lease accounting and significant one time items.
Our total rental and management revenue growth was nearly 33%.
Of this core growth 13.6% was organic resulting from another very strong quarter of commenced new business.
Excluding the impacts of pass-through organic core revenue growth was about 11.5%.
In addition we experienced an excellent quarter of signed new business which positions us well to continue delivering high levels of organic growth.
The balance of our core growth were over 19% was attributable to properties we have acquired since the beginning of Q2 2013 including the GTP and NII portfolios we acquired late last year and the Richland assets we added in April.
These assets continue to augment our organic growth and we expect to generate strong growth on these sites in the future.
Turning to Slide 7 our domestic rental and management revenue growth in the quarter was over 26% with core growth of around 30%.
Domestic organic core growth was over 11% which consisted of about 3% from escalations and more than 10% from existing site revenue growth net of around 1.5% from tenant churn.
This organic core growth reflects our tenants continued aggressive network investments they are making in 4G.
In addition organic core growth in the quarter benefited from accelerated revenue recognition under our multi-year equipment customer agreement which is expected to generate about $21 million per year through 2016.
We had projected that revenue associated with this activity would be evenly spread throughout the year.
However during the quarter we recognized $8 million of incremental revenue due to the accelerated timing of work performed under this agreement.
Going forward our revenue recognition attributable to this agreement may continue to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter our domestic organic core growth without this incremental revenue would have been just under 10%.
Overall in the U.S.
about 60% of the commenced new business activity generated in the quarter outside of the holistic agreements was in the form of amendments compared to about 65% a year ago.
Also our new business pipeline reflects a split of 55% amendments and 45% co-locations reflecting a continuing shift towards network densification.
As a result of this strong activity we expect organic core growth in the U.S.
to be in the mid 9% range for 2014.
Domestic rental and management gross margin increased by more than 25% to over $533 million and grew by about 29% on a core basis.
Domestic organic gross margin core growth was over 12% which reflects an 87% conversion rate for properties which we have owned since the beginning of Q2 2013.
We also constructed 276 towers in Q2 and in addition purchased or extended the remaining term on almost 600 of our ground leases with the extensions averaging about 30 years.
Finally we generated domestic rental and management operating profit growth of nearly 26% or about 30% on a core basis which reflects our continuing commitment to property level cost controls and disciplined spending on SG&amp;A expenses.
As we referenced last quarter SG&amp;A synergies from the GTP acquisition continued to come in ahead of initial expectations.
Moving on to Slide 8 our international rental and management segment generated revenue growth of 29% or nearly 39% on a core basis during the quarter.
Of this core growth about 18% was organic with a balance driven by nearly 8000 new assets we have acquired since the beginning of Q2 2013.
These new properties continue to outperform our original expectations similar to the U.S.
we are seeing a very strong demand backdrop overseas and our Brazilian and Colombian markets both had a record quarter of commenced new business in the quarter.
Organic revenue core growth rates range from about 10% in India around 18% in Latin America and over 22% in EMEA during the quarter with Telefónica Airtel and Vodafone among others continuing to spend extensively on their networks.
In addition to organic new business outperformance we recorded increased pass-through revenues in a number of markets which boosted our organic core growth in the quarter excluding pass-through international organic core growth was about 12%.
International rental and management gross margin in the quarter grew 26% to about $212 million while core growth in gross margin was nearly 32%.
International organic core growth in gross margin excluding pass-through was about 16% which reflects a gross margin conversion ratio actually of over 100%.
Our international rental and management segment operating profit margin grew over 30% to $178 million while the operating profit percentage was 51% excluding the effects of pass-through revenue; our international operating profit margin was over 70%.
Turning to Slide 9 our reported adjusted EBITDA growth in the quarter was over 30% with our adjusted EBITDA core growth at more than 33%.
Similar to prior quarters our adjusted EBITDA core growth was primarily attributable to our rental and management segment which generally represents recurring run rate contributions to EBITDA as opposed to the project oriented non-run rate nature of EBITDA generated by our services business.
Our Q2 adjusted EBITDA margin was over 66% excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was nearly 73%.
And our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was 79%.
Cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue in the quarter was under 8% which includes the added benefit of the recovery of certain expenses in corporate SG&amp;A of about $7 million.
For the full year we expect our cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be under 9%.
This strong EBITDA performance resulted in solid growth in AFFO which increased to $474 million or $1.19 per share.
AFFO and AFFO per share growth were both over 29%.
Core AFFO growth was 31% reflecting significant organic new business growth coupled with the addition of a number of AFFO accretive acquisitions.
Our adjusted EBITDA to AFFO conversion rate during the quarter was about 68%.
We continue to target at least mid-teen core AFFO growth going forward and believe that we are well-positioned to exceed our goal of doubling 2012 AFFO per share by 2017.
Moving on to Slide 10 we remain committed to our capital deployment strategy.
Our goal is to simultaneously fund growth return cash to our stockholders and maintain a strong balance sheet.
Year-to-date we have declared over $261 million in common stock dividend spent about $466 million on CapEx and have reduced our total debt by more than $500 million.
The $500 million plus we have spent on acquisition so far this year includes about 60 tall towers in the U.S.
and over 400 towers internationally.
We also announced a Brazilian acquisition of BR Towers in June and expect that transaction to close in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We have not included any impacts from pending acquisitions in our current outlook.
We continue to expect our primary method of returning capital to stockholders for the rest of this year will be through our REIT distributions as well as dividend payments to holders of our mandatory convertible preferred stock.
The amounts and timing of our dividend payments are to discretion of our Board but our goal continues to be to deliver base annual common stock dividend growth of over 20%.
Our net leverage is a function of EBITDA as of quarter end was approximately 5x on a LQA basis.
We continue to maintain a long-term target range of between 3x to 5x and expect to be in the low 5x range at year end 2014.
We have maintained significant liquidity and as of the end of the quarter and nearly $300 million in cash on hand and about $3.2 billion in capacity under our credit facilities.
Our average remaining term of debt is over 5 years with an average cost of 4%.
Turning to Slide 11 based on the strong tenant demand trends we are seeing across our footprint we are raising our full year 2014 outlook for rental and management segment revenue by $45 million at to midpoint to $3.98 billion.
About $15 million of the increase is attributable to organic revenue outperformance in our domestic business with an additional $5 million or so attributable to U.S.
straight line.
The balance of the increase is being driven by our international operations including about $10 million attributable to organic revenue outperformance about $8 million in incremental straight line revenue and $12 million increase in past due revenues.
And this is partially offset by around $5 million in FX headwinds versus our prior outlook.
For the year we expect core growth in the consolidated rental and management segment revenue of 26%.
We expect domestic organic revenue core growth for the year to be between 9% and 10% and now expect our 2014 international organic revenue core growth to be around 15%.
Our strategy of acquiring less mature higher growth assets in international markets has boosted our organic growth rates and we would expect that trend to continue in the future.
On a consolidated basis we expect organic core revenue growth in 2014 to be about 10.6%.
In addition while not yet included in our core organic metrics the portfolios we have acquired over the last year are outperforming expectations.
We are also increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $55 million at the midpoint.
This includes about $30 million from domestic and corporate outperformance including stronger than expected organic revenue growth and around $10 million in corporate SG&amp;A expense recovery $7 million of which we booked in Q2.
In addition about $20 million of the increase is attributable to our international business driven predominantly by organic outperformance with $5 million or so from outperformance in the services segment.
On a consolidated basis we now expect core growth and adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be nearly 26%.
And finally we are raising our full year AFFO outlook at the midpoint by $30 million reflecting the increase in adjusted EBITDA at $5 million decrease in maintenance CapEx partially offset by about $16 million in net straight line impacts and $14 million in incremental funding costs associated with acquisitions.
We now expect to generate AFFO growth of nearly 21% for the year or over 23% on a core basis.
Turning to Slide 12 and in summary we continue to maintain momentum we realized in the first quarter.
Organic core revenue growth in the U.S.
continues to benefit from our tenants increasing to coverage in capacity with the 4G networks.
Internationally key customers like Airtel Vodafone and Telefónica are making sizeable network investments as their customer base is adopting increasingly advanced wireless services.
In addition to capitalizing on these organic growth trends we continue to add high quality assets through accretive acquisitions while being mindful of preserving our strong balance sheet.
For example by issuing mandatory convertible preferred stock subsequent to our acquisition to Richland Towers which was initially funded through our revolver we are able to simultaneously reduce leverage preserve the accretive nature of the transaction and increase our flexibility to fund additional M&amp;A for the balance of the year.
For example we expect to close our BR Towers transaction in the fourth quarter further expanding our presence in a fast growing attractive market while also maintaining leverage in the low 5x range.
We also maintained our strong track record of growing adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share in the quarter with both metrics significantly outperforming our long-term mid-teen growth targets.
In addition we have cleared a common dividend of $0.34 a share or about $135 million representing an increase of nearly 26% as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
We believe we are well-positioned to sustain this momentum and as a result are once again raising our 2014 outlook across all of our key metrics.
Application levels for space on our towers remained at elevated levels giving a solid visibility into new business growth on our existing assets throughout the rest of the year.
And with that I will turn the call over to Jim for some closing remarks before we take some Q&amp;A.
Jim? Thanks Tom and good morning everyone on the call.
Today I'm going to continue our practice of focusing on a specific theme from my prepared remarks.
As you may recall during our February call we provided an in-depth update on our long-term strategic plan and key aspirational goals for our company.
Then on our call in May I focused on the strong domestic wireless investment environment and the outperformance of our U.S.
operations.
Today I will provide a similar perspective on our international segment.
Finally and looking ahead on our upcoming Q3 call on the fall our focus will turn to the fundamental trends in wireless technology which we believe will continue to drive network investment and long-term growth for American Tower.
So today's remarks I will discuss a brief overview of our international business and lease investment priorities a snapshot of current global technology and industry trends that we anticipate will support ongoing organic core revenue growth of 200 to 300 basis points in excess of our domestic segment.
And a brief assessment on the performance of three significant international investments we have made in the major regional telecom markets of Brazil Latin America India and Asia Pacific region and South Africa and the Europe Middle East Africa regions.
As many of you may recall we reenergized our commitment to international market in 2007 following the acquisition and integration of SpectraSite.
Since then our international investment evaluation process has entailed an exhaustive assessment of each target countries political and macroeconomic fundamentals of its wireless commercial and regulatory environment and the specific counterparty for each potential transactions.
Further we established country specific hurdle rates which reflect specific risk adjustments based on several key factors the largest of which tends to be the spread between the local government bond and its U.S.
treasury equivalent.
As a reference point our assessments tend to resolve an unlevered return hurdle rates in the low to mid teens in markets across Latin America and in India and returns in the mid to high teens if not 20% or more in markets in Africa.
By having pursued early international expansion through a disciplined and methodical approach we constructed a diversified portfolio of properties which consistently generates organic growth rate exceeding those of our high performing domestic business.
This quarter was no exception.
As Tom previously mentioned the second quarter core organic growth rate for international business was nearly 18% or in this case over 600 basis points greater than the impressive growth rate delivered by our domestic U.S.
segment.
We believe the several key factors will continue to support strong international tower leasing demand in the long-term.
First consumer demand for mobile services globally continues to increase rapidly and put strain on existing wireless networks.
Second we believe that the carriers desire to monetize this increased usage will compel them to compete and seek to improve their networks.
And finally we expect this to translate into significant carrier investments and wireless CapEx and an incremental lease up on our global portfolio of towers as a result.
For the fundamental drivers of demand for tower leasing are consistent both in the U.S.
and globally the different stages of wireless technology development across the markets we serve presents us with the unique opportunity.
In evolving wireless markets like Mexico and Brazil carriers are focused on adding equipment to new and existing sites actually for 3G capacity and initial 4G coverage.
While an emerging wireless market like India where smartphone penetration is only 10% the wireless carriers there are primarily focused on adding equipment for 2G capacity and initial 3G coverage.
Forecast indicates that these markets will see tremendous growth in mobile data usage over the next 5 to 10 years and we fully expect that our portfolio will benefit from the investments required to support the resulting network upgrade cycles in all these countries.
In addition to pursuing higher growth rates and solid returns to investing internationally we also strive to minimize potential execution counter party and inflation risks.
We are able to greatly mitigate execution risk in our newer markets by exporting seasoned management establish systems and processes and our best commercial practices and contracts from our U.S.
and legacy international operations.
Counterparty risk is minimized by maintaining close relationships with strong multinational tenants.
In fact six of top international tenants are customers of American Tower in more than one of our markets.
Further most of our contract in international markets are hedged for inflation through CPI linked escalators and pass-through provisions for largest expenses.
We are also well-diversified within our international portfolio which is spread across 12 countries and four continents.
As a result our international business is not depending on any one country to achieve strong growth.
And internationally just as in the U.S.
consumers want more and more access to both basic and advance mobile services.
Smartphone penetration is at about 55% in the United States but it is just 12% in emerging markets.
We are starting to see smartphone adoption rising rapidly in those markets with smartphone penetration rising quickly over 65% versus prior year across emerging markets.
With respect to the most advanced mobile technology global 4G LTE subscriptions grew even faster at 170% last year yet there is still a just 180 million LTE subscriptions worldwide and over 80% of those are concentrated in only three countries the U.S  Japan and South Korea.
Consequently while global mobile data traffic grew 81% last year there remains significant pent-up demand around the world especially in less developed markets.
As a result of consumers' healthy appetite for mobile access and increasing bandwidth we believe wireless carriers will also be rewarded by investing in higher quality networks.
In the U.S.
where there is well-developed wireless infrastructure annual industry churn stands around 1.7% among our carrier customers.
In comparison in emerging markets for wireless infrastructure is less developed churn is more than double the U.S.
at about 4.1%.
Given the cost of subscriber churn represents carriers are further incentivized to improve the quality of their networks.
Brazil is a prime example of a Latin America market where we are well-positioned to capture the resulting leasing activity as the wireless carriers ramp up their networks to meet raising consumer demand while retaining their existing customers.
For example in Brazil current 3G penetration stands at about 40% and smartphone penetration only at 20%.
Those figures lag the U.S.
by about five years.
However today consumer demand is strong and rapidly increasing in Brazil for mobile access and mobile data.
Last quarter smartphone penetration there grew 67% over the prior year period.
This trend is expected to continue with the forecast of data as a percentage of ARPU for the carriers to grow nearly 1900 basis points from 27% at the end of 2013 to 46% by 2018.
Over the same time period mobile data traffic is expected to grow by 11x in Brazil.
Consequently further network investment is necessary in Brazil to meet growing consumer demand.
Currently Brazil has over 4000 subscribers for each cell site compared to the U.S.
were just over 1000 subscribers for each cell site despite having similar spectrum to subscriber ratios.
This means the Brazilian carriers will need to add sites as wireless data usage carrier across the networks increases.
Additionally ANATEL the Brazilian telecommunications regulator has become increasingly focused on mobile body of service.
Given the expanding consumer demand and regulatory focus on service quality the CEO of Vivo recently stated that his company will need 10 000 new macro cells in the next two years.
Further recent 4G auctions have also featured aggressive rollout targets spanning major cities and rural areas across Brazil.
As a result carriers have committed to increase capital investments to improve the capacity of their 3G networks and increased coverage of their new 4G networks.
American Tower is poised to benefit from this investment cycle due to our strong relationships with the major mobile operators in the region and our industry leading portfolio of towers and desirable locations in Brazil with nearly three quarters of our sites there located in urban areas where wireless usage is concentrated.
Based on these trends and our positive track record in Brazil we continue to make strategic investments in that country to enhance to scale of our existing business.
Our core organic revenue growth in Brazil grew over 20% in the last quarter and resulting return on investment across all tower visitors there continues to increase.
Also impressive is the return on investment for our properties acquired and constructed from 2006 to 2010 which is increased by over 200 basis over just the past year into the high 20% range for those towers.
In addition the performance on our recent investments has been solid with the increasing tenancy on the towers we just acquired from Vivo resulting in core revenue growth of 31% and tower cash flow growth of 39%.
So given our positive investment performance in the country and our strong operational foundation we remain active investors in Brazil and expect our recently announced acquisition of BR Towers to close in the fourth quarter.
This acquisition will complement our existing portfolio well and increase our scale in Brazil to over 11500 towers.
Turning into our EMEA region South Africa was our initial entry market and is at a similar stage as Brazil in terms of development of its wireless sector.
Smartphone penetration is only about 20% in South Africa during the first quarter of 2014; it grew nearly 50% from the prior year.
Data as a percent of ARPU is expected to increase nearly 1800 basis points over the next five years up to 48%.
And further mobile data traffic is expected to grow 53% a year in South Africa.
Similar to those in Brazil mobile operators in South Africa are still working to increase capacity for 3G and has started initial coverage builds for 4G.
The current ratio of subscribers' two sides is 3000 per cell site which is nearly 3x as high as the United States.
As a result forecast indicates that cell sites in South Africa will increase by 8% a year on average for the next five years for the 11 000 sites expected to be added there by 2018.
Our financial performance in South Africa has been positive and we remain committed to helping our customers expand their networks in that region.
Tower supplied in the country prior to 2012 which includes the original Cell C transaction to launch our South African business have increased their returns by over 250 basis points over the last year which are now in the high 20% range.
This was driven by core revenue growth excluding past due of 9% and tower cash flow growth of 10% over last year.
India is another key market for our company where we currently have a footprint of 12 000 towers.
For the Brazilian and South African mobile markets are about five years behind the domestic U.S.
market the Indian telecom is estimated to be some 10 years behind that of the U.S.
In fact nearly 90% of mobile connections in India are still made using 2G technology.
While technological deployments in India lags that of Brazil South Africa and the U.S.
consumer appetite for wireless access does not.
Mobile connectivity has become instrumental to many consumers in India and over 90% of the country's Internet subscribers use a mobile connection to access the Internet.
In addition smartphone penetration has begun to increase rapidly more than doubling to 10% during 2013.
Given strong consumer demand a long runway for growth and indications of an improving regulatory environment we believe that the major carriers in India are increasingly well-positioned for future success.
Recent results are also improving as on average carrier EBITDA service margins there have improved each of the last four quarters on a year-over-year basis.
This trend is expected to continue with EBITDA service margins expected to expand 270 basis points over the next two years to nearly 34% for these carriers although over the same time period ARPU is forecasted for them to grow over 12%.
This positive financial performance is expected to help support network investment with capital expenditures among Indian carriers anticipated to grow 30% during 2014 and another 19% in 2015.
In addition Reliance Jio has committed to building a nationwide 4G network to provide data only mobile access to Indian customers.
This would be the first network of its kind in the Indian market and we look forward to partnering with Jio in this endeavor toward our recently signed master lease agreement with this new customer.
In anticipation of this capital investment cycle American Tower has developed the robust build program in India.
Over 40% of our current India tower portfolio is composed of American Tower constructed sites.
These towers drive strong returns for our company and we remain committed to helping the carriers expand the mobile access through our tower construction program.
Return on investment for new build in India generally reaches into double digit on day one due to relatively low construction cost in the market and over time these returns expand.
For example our portfolio of towers constructed between 2006 and 2010 generated returns in the mid to high teens during this second quarter.
In conclusion we believe the investments we've made are delivering solid returns and have positioned as well to deliver strong operational results from both our domestic and international segments for many years to come.
We also believe that by investing in our portfolio across select markets at various stages of wireless development we will lengthen and strengthen our growth profile while diversifying the company's long-term revenue in cash flow streams.
Our international portfolio strong return on invested capital performance and organic growth rates clearly demonstrates that international strategy is tremendously complementary to our consistently high performing U.S.
operations.
Given our strong domestic acquisition track record we also remain committed to making smart investments in the U.S.
as demonstrated in the most recent cases of GTP and Richland Towers.
We also plan to continue our disciplined expansion efforts in international markets which bring greater scale of global presence to serve leading multinational mobile operators and further drives our growth trajectory.
And with that operator can you please open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning this is Armintas for Simon.
Thank you for all that color on the international markets.
That was very helpful.
It seems like we here about an international tower portfolio coming to the market several times a week.
Just wanted to get your color in terms of – if there is a goal – a percentage goal for the international business and if you are considering other markets that you didn't highlight in your presentation? And also another one just – get some more detail on the BR Towers and the thought process behind the acquisition? Thank you.
Sure.
This is Jim.
First of all I want to point out that we have stated a few times before publicly that we don't have a specific goal for percentage of revenue for example in our international business.
We have the benefit of a global apertures so we can look at opportunities for acquisitions in growth in the U.S.
and all the regions I just talked about.
So we are going for the best risk-adjusted return on capital many of the opportunities that do come to market as you pointed out whether they are in the U.S.
or overseas don't meet our investment criteria and therefore you don't see us move forward with those whether all this is due or not is a different story.
And so we are really focused on our existing markets and ancillary markets that complement those.
So an example of an ancillary complementary market would be Ghana as to the complementary major market of South Africa.
So those are the kinds of situations we look for.
And as another input to those reviews we look for those multinational carriers that I talked about in the prepared remarks that we serve at least in one other country in that region as a plus for given country.
But most of our investment you have seen lately has been in existing markets especially the U.S.
Brazil as you pointed out and others like it.
So Tom if you talk a bit about the BR Towers? Yes.
And I would just add that strategically what we are trying to do is make sure that we are either number one or two in every market that we serve.
And as Jim said strategically what we are trying to do is invest in our existing markets where we can get the best return profiles given the amount of investment that we have already made into the market.
With regards to BR just to as I mentioned in some of my remarks that the impact of BR is not included in our guidance.
We expect to close this in Q4 really not earlier than October 31st.
We paid as you may recall just under 900 maybe $1 million day one annualized revenues about $130 million day one TCF is about $80 million since we paid about 12x TCF and EBITDA is right around $75 million to $80 million.
We picked up 4600 sites.
It's modestly AFFO creative initially around $0.04 per share 24% of the sites were in the top 15 cities 45% are in the top 300 cities.
So we are very excited about this opportunity really positions us well on top of the existing portfolio that we have in the market.
We have a very terrific management team in the market.
And we are really excited about the opportunity and the future going forward.
Thank you.
SG&amp;A by the way just on that is also very low.
Again it kind of complements what I was saying before in terms of vesting into our existing market.
So there would be additional SG&amp;A on this is 2.5% of revenue.
So very very low given the amount of infrastructure we already have in the market.
Hope that helps.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Couple of questions.
Sprint on it's call right now lowered its CapEx outlook by $1 billion for 2014 as it neared completion of the network vision plan which is actually contradictory to our view.
Do you expect any slowdown in activity from Sprint or do you see any slowdown right now? And another question on the integration process for new tower purchases how long do you think it takes to refit them into your base and how does the incremental lease up compare to your more mature portfolio which I believe it has been growing up about point 2/10 on an annual basis? Batya it's Jim good morning.
As to Sprint you may recall that we introduced with them a fairly innovative contract structure a few years ago that stabilizes and locks in our growth rate for a number of years.
And we are in the process of implementing and executing that contract and partnership with Sprint now.
So we are very confident that the growth rate and inputs that we are seeing from Sprint in our case are going to continue to be very similar.
The other thing that contract did was aviated -- any of neither insured with American Tower.
So even if they accelerate which we believe they have viewing our equipment takes down that Tom talked about earlier from our sites that's not going to negatively impact the company.
So whether Sprint moves its CapEx up or down by a $1 billion really shouldn't have a material input on our proceeds and revenue streams from them.
Go ahead Tom you can talk about integration? Yes.
We are just talking about – on the integration and obviously it's a function of whether we are actually acquiring a carrier portfolio or an existing tower portfolio.
So you can see that with the acquisition that we made with GTP.
We are largely completed with GTP tower portfolio into our business.
And as a matter of fact and some other remarks I made you saw that we have really accelerated much of the benefits that we saw that would made them happen in two years time – two three year time we are actually realizing out of those synergies actually in 2014.
And with regards to the lease up opportunity lot of it depends upon the – actually the amount of tenancy that exist on the towers out of the gate so both in Jim's comments and my comment we talked about a lot of the portfolios that we have acquired internationally over the last three years have been with low tenancy on their towers.
And you can see that the organic growth rates in those markets for those towers that we have had for greater than a year are up in the – this particular quarter 18%.
So it's a function of tenancy really that they have in the marketplace and how we are positioning in the market.
But clearly in those lower tenancy towers we are seeing a very accelerated rate of growth in those markets.
In GTP which is a portfolio that –obviously we just acquired given their – they had about two tenants per tower.
We are seeing consistent rates of growth on the GTP as we are with the U.S.
So it's a function more of how the towers are positioned in the market and what kind of tenancy they are coming with.
Hopefully that helps you Batya.
That's great.
Thanks.
Just one – quick follow-up there was some chatter that potentially in Mexico we could see some M&amp;A with Telefónica looking at (indiscernible).
Can you – if you have the data can you tell us what is the remaining contract life for those tenants and what the overlapping exposure would be? Without having that specific spread sheet in front of me beyond the order of 7 years Batya in our case.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Apology all questions have been asked.
Was in two places at one time today.
First question for you guys if I could on international portfolios as you think about – I think Tom I heard you say want to be number one or number two in the market.
How do you consider partial sales or operating control do you guys want – I assume be in control of operations of tariff portfolios? Ric that's been one of the premises of our actually domestic and international expansion since this management has been in place.
We think it's really important for us if were the owner-operator of the sites that we have the independent Phase 2 to the marketplace so that other global operators feel comfortable leasing the sites on one hand.
And secondly so the carrier partner doesn't have sort of detail on who goes on the site or (indiscernible) get on it.
So for us it's important to have operating control whether exceptions to every principle there can be but we haven't gone in that direction as of yet on any transaction.
And then also I noticed you closed about 100 or so the next owner international remaining towers in this 2Q anyway still expectation to close the rest of probably 900 towers towards the end of the year? It will be a subset of that Ric.
But it won't be the full 900.
And then two other quickie ones when you consider on the U.S.
side your guidance is there any significant or how is Sprint sparked the 2.5 GHz reflected in your guidance and also have you seen the activity from the T-Mobile low band work? On the Sprint side Ric it's very consistent with what we have been realizing in the first half of the year.
So now there is no real significant uptick in spark.
I mean we are seeing some 2.5 being rolled out but pretty modestly.
So we would expect that more of it in 2015 kind of an activity as well as T-Mobile pretty consistent within the second half of what we have realized in the first half.
So we would expect an uptick in that perhaps towards – latter part of the year and into 2015.
Makes great sense.
And the final question is when you consider amendment versus co-location what's been kind of the split on a dollar basis maybe in the U.S.
side as far as how of the leasing activity in 2Q is coming from amendment activity versus co-lo? Yes.
I mean on the overall levels within the 60 kind of 40 range I mean we are seeing application we are seeing values of amendments in kind of that $700 or $800 range and probably 3x that relative to new co-los.
As far as that was a dollar value 60%...
Yes.
Revenues were amendments versus co-los? It's right Ric.
Great.
Thanks so much guys.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Richard for Phil.
Following up on Batya and Ric in terms of the domestic revenue guidance after the first half performance it seems like you with the revenue – accelerated revenue recognition that growth is accelerating and kind of above the 9.5% to the guidance.
It seems like there is – this might be a slow down in the second half is that just being conservative or is there something that we are not seeing.
And then also in terms of domestic what is driving the strong build and should we expect that going forward? Let me – on the build program I mean that continues with a lot of momentum we started last year.
I mean I think it's just indicative of the fact that carriers are looking for some additional density as well as some coverage but largely additional density.
So we have obviously strong relationships with the customers and we expect actually to build and kind of 500 to 600 towers for 2014.
And we are hopeful that kind of energy will continue into 2016.
With regards to the – your first question on the results no I mean the application levels in the second quarter were 20% higher than they were same time last year.
So we are expecting continued solid quarter gain of growth going in the second half of the year.
Keep in mind that we do have on the U.S.
basis that acceleration of some of the revenue associated with the decommissioning.
So there is some skewing with that from the first half of the year and not in the second half of the year.
But we are excited about what we are seeing going forward.
And then in terms of AFFO can you give us a sense of what percentage comes from the services business? Yes.
Service is very very small I would say less than five – less than 5% the predominant is coming from the U.S.
seconded with the international and then the services which is probably in the 2% to 3%.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much for taking the question.
I guess the first question from my side Jim clearly we have seen the CapEx plans come out of the carriers that have reported thus far.
And I recognize that delineating your business from their CapEx trajectory is a little bit more magic than science.
But with AT&amp;T and Verizon implying that they frontend loaded CapEx for the year.
What gives you comfort in terms of the visibility for the back half of this year clearly in rising your outlook.
And then any indications of how we should think about the carry forward into 2015? Sure Amir.
It's Jim here.
Look our actual experience to-date with both Verizon and AT&amp;T and frankly the other carriers -- major carriers in the U.S.
as well Sprint and T-Mobile is that we haven't seen a decline in activity whether it's commencements meaning we start to fill that includes installation of equipment whether as Tom said applications sign new business all this is trending very positive for us and that gives us very constant visibility into the next few quarters that our demand for space real estate is going to stay strong.
When various companies recognize CapEx for equipment or soft costs or other things and put it on their P&amp;L and balance sheet that's something you have to really tease out with them.
And secondly we would also want to point out that AT&amp;T in a specific case continues to be our largest new business customer anywhere in the world.
We have a strong pipeline of new business with them both in built-to-suite towers and in co-locations and amendments a numerous dash projects as well.
Verizon is not far behind frankly in all those kinds of activities with us.
And AT&amp;T reiterated it's CapEx guidance for the full year at $21 billion and again how they may account and put things through the general ledger and when they do that versus when equipment gets installed on sites then we start billing.
Those things may not be perfectly correlated as you said.
So our confidence is showing through in our guidance.
There was some sort of one time or seasonal things that happened in the U.S.
to our benefit in the first half.
It's not an issue of demand is the second half guidance that we put there demand is strong.
Thanks a lot.
And then a follow-up on some of the international trends here.
Thinking about potential appetite for other transactions in the marketplace and it does seem as though we are hearing more and more about opportunities in some of the international markets what you folks have defined as sort of core international areas of focus.
Appetite for additional transaction Jim or anything along those lines would be helpful? Well the appetite for additional transactions is totally in place our company.
Each of those as to on its merits meet our investment criteria and as I said in the past and even today there are evaluations we do as a country the wireless market in the country and a specific counterparty.
And then it's a matter of our modeling at the assets growth over time.
And as the purchase price being sort by the seller then within our investment model some times it does and you see us active other times you don't and some else takes it or offer for sale is withdrawn.
So the appetite is clearly there.
We have got terrific management teams in Latin America EMEA and Asia that are involved in pretty much every opportunity that one could think off that is ongoing out there.
And those that pass [muster] (ph) we'll act on and we have the balance sheet and the financial position to do that.
And those that don't meet our investment criteria we won't act on.
And there are more of those than the ones we act on or quite active everywhere.
Great.
Thank you very much for the incremental color.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut from Evercore.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question here.
I'd like to ask a question on DAS I know that you guys have had pretty deep operations on the indoor DAS side for a while with the inclusion of the roof tops from global tower partners; I thought that we are sensing maybe a change in perspective on outdoor DAS.
But I recently read an interview with Steve Marshall where he talked about some of the challenges on ODAS and really the inability to scale.
I was just wondering if you could sort of update us on your perspective for investments in the DAS business.
And then maybe elaborate a little bit on the challenges of getting scale on the ODAS side? Thanks.
There is a differentiation between outdoor DAS and indoor DAS in our experience in the American Tower.
The indoor DAS projects which we focused on since the SpectraSite acquisition nearly 10 years ago now have had leasing rates additional tenancies and upgrades due to technology in a similar sort of pace as the classic tower would have.
And our experience frankly in outdoor DAS which is a much much smaller piece of our particular business has been that those revenue growth rates per unit aren't as rapid.
So we have to then bake that experience of somewhat lower growth rate into our investment models and therefore we end up doing less of those projects frankly.
It is still a good complementary technology.
We are doing a few projects as we speak but those have been long in negotiation and we have been able to get in a position where those do meet our investment criteria but it's tougher to make the hurdle frankly for outdoor DAS in our company than it is for an indoor DAS project or classic tower.
Great.
If I can ask a follow-up question just in terms of your debt you've got down to 5x leverage now.
It hasn't seemed to hold you back from making acquisitions but now that you've gotten back into your leverage target range does it open up new opportunities for you to do investments? We never really held back candidly on investments that we were looking at.
I mean we always had – we believe the liquidity as well as the wherewithal to look at any investment as we have done.
We have been pretty inquisitive even in the first half of the year.
And looking the BR Tower transaction in the second half of the year we have been fortunate in terms of being able to issue a mandatory preferred and subsequent to the Richland Tower deal and that gave us a little bit more flexibility to continue to have a pretty good run rate of looking at opportunities down the path we are not shy to the extent if there was a large strategic transaction there just as we had identified at the end of last year.
We would use equity where we thought that it was value creating and accretive to our business.
So yes in the second quarter we did land it around 5x with the BR transaction and what we expect for the second half of the year we should be in the kind of the 5.1x to 5.3x.
But as I said we are not shy from using our balance sheet in all of the tools there into the extent that we see a transaction that makes sense for us.
All right.
Thank you so much.
You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick questions.
As it relates to capital deployment I know you got the Brazil transaction closing in Q4.
Is there anything else that's been announced but has not closed I just want to make sure I have kind of my dollars slotted in correctly for Q3.
We have one additional small U.S.
transaction that we have said just signed and it's a couple of 100 million dollars of funding for – it will occur $140 million $150 million actually Steve.
It will be in the fourth quarter but that's really it -- subsequent to the end of the Q we did buyout the minority partners’ interest in Colombia and that was to the tune of $100 million or so.
So a couple of small little items like that.
Okay.
So maybe $100 million in Q3 and then an incremental call $150 million in Q4 with Brazil? Yes.
And then Brazil on top of that.
That's right.
Correct.
Okay.
And then just to make sure I understand the incremental $8 million of revenue that you picked up seemed to be somewhat of a timing issue.
So as we think about just normalizing Q3 would you say half of that goes away in Q3 or I want to make sure we don't over extrapolate or under cheat the run rate going forward? Fair point.
I mean the way we had it in our original outlook as I mentioned it's about $21 million of revenue in the year and we had it ratably across all four quarters so it isn't $5 million per quarter.
So for the first half of the year we have actually recognized $17 million $18 million of that revenue so there will be $3 million left that we will recognize in the second half of the year.
Okay.
And then just to be clear that kind of goes away in 2015? No no no.
That's recurring through 2016.
Okay sorry about that.
And then just on the expense side that $7 million just again to be clear about another $3 million benefit will occur in Q3 but almost sounds like that $7 million was a little bit high in terms of a run rate? Yes.
That's exactly right.
We would expect another $3 million sometime in the second half of the year.
Okay great.
That's it from me thanks.
Great.
Thanks Steve.
And our last question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
This is Will for Kevin.
Regarding Mexico there's been a lot of news over the past few weeks.
Can you update us on current lease up and amendment activity there and your take on America Movil's tower spinoff and the other potential Iusacell and Movistar merger being reported today? And also do you expect AT&amp;T to enter the market? What we can speak to with most accuracy is our own run rate in Mexico which has been solid and stable over the last couple of years I would say.
These are investments criteria and has been a very successful market for us.
I mean it's on the order – the results are on the order of Mexico again long tenure experience there with American Tower in that country and we have got a great management team as well in Mexico.
And they have been performing steadily over the few years.
As far as the other situation its best I think left to the parties you mentioned to elaborate on those.
America Movil I will point out as an important customer of ours in multiple markets and Latin America.
I think we have a strong business relationship with their management team if they like us to collaborate with them down the road in some fashion we would certainly listen to that.
But we have nothing to report at all on how they are going to dispose of their towers at this time.
And then finally with Iusacell and Telefónica Movistar again we have long lasting contracts with both of those seven 10 years if they get together you will have certainly a much stronger competitor in Mexico by combining those two companies.
But we don't have any visibility as to the probability of that happening or any regulatory inputs that might happen.
We will be successful we think whether there are three or four large carriers in Mexico just like we have been successful in the U.S.
as it has gone sort of from seven to four over the last few years.
So we wouldn't look at this as a material concern for us.
And then finally the only people that can comment of AT&amp;T is going to enter the market are AT&amp;T so we don't have any view into that at all.
All right.
Thank you.
Great.
I will now turn the call back over to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Thanks operator.
And thank you all for being here with us today.
I know it's a busy today.
We appreciate all of your attention to the extent that you have any follow up questions please give Leah or myself a call.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lea and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower’s Third Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After your speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Leah Stearns Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury you may begin your conference.
Investor Relations and Treasury</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning’s call will be as follows.
First I will provide a brief overview of our third quarter results then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the quarter as well as our updated outlook for 2014 and finally Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2014 outlook and future operating performance our expectations regarding our future growth industry trends leasing demand leverage and any other statements regarding facts and circumstances that are not historical.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning’s press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2014 and in our other filings with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our third quarter 2014 results.
During the quarter our rental and management business accounted for over 97% of our total revenues which were generated from leasing income producing real estate primarily to investment grade corporate tenants.
This revenue grew 26.9% from the third quarter of 2013 to over $1 billion.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA grew 26.2% to approximately $666 million adjusted funds from operations increased 25.2% to approximately $460 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders was approximately $200 million or $0.50 per basic and diluted common share.
And now I will turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Leah.
Good morning everyone and thank you for being here with us this morning.
As you can see from our press release our business continued to perform well in the third quarter.
Elevated wireless CapEx spend in the U.S.
led to strong growth in the quarter and wireless network initiatives by large multinational carriers in our other markets allowed us to post solid results internationally as well.
As a result we are raising our full year 2014 outlook for all of our key metrics.
If you please turn to Slide 6 our total rental and management revenue in the quarter increased by nearly 27% to over $1 billion.
On a core growth basis our total rental and management revenue growth was more than 31%.
Of this core growth nearly 12% was organic driven by continuing strong new business commencements.
The balance of our core growth of over 19% was attributable to properties we have acquired since the beginning of Q3 2013.
This includes the GTP portfolio which generated organic core growth of over 10% during the quarter outpacing the growth rate even of our legacy domestic portfolio.
Turning to Slide 7 our domestic rental and management revenue growth in the quarter was over 25% with core growth of around 28%.
Domestic organic core growth was over 9% which consisted of just over 3% from escalations and more than 8% from existing site revenue growth less 1.6% from tenant churn.
This organic core growth reflects our tenants continued aggressive network investments in 4G.
In the U.S.
about two-thirds of the commenced new business activity we saw in the quarter outside of our holistic master lease agreements was in the form of amendments.
Similar to the year ago period after several quarters of an increasing proportion of new leases we saw very active amendment activity which reflects additional equipment being placed on towers by our customers in part driven by VoLTE rollouts.
As a result of the continuing strong new business trends in the U.S.
we are raising our expectations for organic core growth in the U.S.
to 9.5% for the full year.
Domestic rental and management gross margin increased by almost 22% to $530 million and grew by about 26% on a core basis.
Domestic organic gross margin core growth was about 9% and reflects a nearly 80% conversion rate for properties we have owned since the beginning of Q3 of last year.
We constructed nearly 200 towers in the quarter and purchased or extended the remaining term on more than 500 ground leases with the extensions averaging about 34 years.
As of the end of the quarter 64% of the land under our U.S.
towers was either owned or controlled for more than 20 years and we continue to target about 80% for that metric within the next three years.
Within the framework of this target we continue to focus on extending our land leases for significant terms or purchasing the land beneath our towers where the return on invested capital meets our required hurdle rates.
Finally we generated domestic rental and management operating profit growth of nearly 22% or about 26% on a core basis.
Moving on to Slide 8 our international rental and management segment generated revenue growth of over 30% or about 37% on a core basis during the quarter.
Of this core growth about 18% was organic with the balance driven by the over 8 000 new assets we have acquired or constructed since the beginning of the third quarter of 2013.
Similar to the U.S.
we are seeing a very strong demand backdrop overseas especially in Brazil where we had another record quarter of commenced new business.
Excluding pass-through revenue our total international organic core growth was over 13%.
Organic core growth rates across the international footprint were strong with India in particular seeing a step up in site leasing activity.
In fact a 13% organic core revenue growth rate excluding pass-through we saw in India specifically during the quarter was the highest in several years.
This growth includes increased wireless CapEx spending by the large carriers including a significant contribution to new business from Reliance Jio.
International rental and management gross margin in the quarter grew 25% to about $212 million while core growth in gross margin was about 31%.
Our international gross margin conversion rate was about 52% in the quarter or 72% excluding pass-through.
Our international rental and management segment operating profit grew nearly 30% to $180 million while the operating profit percentage was about 51%.
Excluding the effects of pass-through revenue our international operating profit margin was about 70%.
Turning to Slide 9 our reported adjusted EBITDA growth in the quarter was 26% with adjusted EBITDA core growth at nearly 32%.
Our Q3 adjusted EBITDA margin was 64.2% and excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was over 70% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was about 66%.
This conversion ratio was impacted by our 2013 acquisitions which have lower margin profiles due to lower initial tendencies than our legacy assets as well as $11 million in year over year net straight line decreases in the quarter.
Cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue in the quarter was about 8.4%.
And for the full year we continue to expect our cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be under 9%.
Part of this outperformance is attributable to the GTP portfolio where we have achieved the synergies embedded in our deal model much faster than we expected.
Our strong EBITDA performance resulted in solid growth in AFFO which increased to $460 million or $1.15 per share.
AFFO and AFFO per share growth were both about 25% with core AFFO growth 28% driven by strong organic new business growth coupled with the impact of a number of FFO accretive acquisitions.
Our adjusted EBITDA to AFFO conversion rate during the quarter was about 67%.
Moving on to Slide 10 we remain committed to our capital deployment strategy and continue to focus on our goal of simultaneously funding growth returning cash to our stockholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Year-to-date we have distributed over $400 million to stockholders through our dividend invested over $700 million in CapEx spent over $500 million on acquisitions and have reduced our total debt by nearly $550 million.
As a result we continue to prove our ability to simultaneously return capital to stockholders deploy capital for accretive investments and maintain our investment grade balance sheet.
We continue to expect that our primary method of returning capital to stockholders for the rest of this year will be through our REIT distributions as well as dividend payments to holders of our mandatory convertible preferred stock.
The amounts and timing of our REIT distributions are at the discretion of our Board but our goal continues to be to deliver annual growth of over 20%.
And over the last 12 months this growth has been nearly 26%.
Our net leverage as of quarter end was approximately 5.1 times on an LQA basis and we continue to maintain a long-term target range of between 3 to 5 times.
We have maintained significant liquidity and as of the end of the quarter had about $3.4 billion of cash in borrowing capacity under our revolvers.
Our average remaining term of debt is over 5 years with an average cost of approximately 4%.
Turning to Slide 11 based on the strong customer demand trends we are seeing across our footprint we are raising our full year 2014 outlook for rental and management segment revenue by $10 million at the midpoint to $3.99 billion.
This increase is driven by $12 million in organic revenue outperformance in our domestic business partially offset by $2 million decrease in U.S.
straight line.
On the international side we are keeping our projections for revenue consistent with prior expectations as revenue outperformance driven by organic growth and about $5 million in incremental pass-through is expected to be offset by some incremental FX headwinds in Q4.
As a reminder BR Towers portfolio which we expect to close during the fourth quarter is not included in these projections.
For the year we expect core growth in consolidated rental and management segment revenue of nearly 27% which includes organic core growth of 9.5% and 16% for our domestic and international segments respectively.
On a consolidated basis we expect organic core revenue growth to be about 11% for the full year.
In addition while not yet included in our core organic metrics the portfolios we have acquired since the beginning of 2013 continued to deliver solid results and are expected to contribute over $640 million in revenue to our full year results.
We are increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $15 million at the midpoint which primarily reflects the favorable revenue trends we are experiencing the year-to-date strong performance of our services segment and our continued focus on cost management.
The midpoint of our outlook reflects gross margin conversion rates of 67% and SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue at about 8.7%.
On a consolidated basis we now expect core growth and adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be nearly 27%.
And finally we are raising our full year AFFO outlook at the midpoint by $35 million reflecting the $15 million increase in adjusted EBITDA and a $20 million decrease in maintenance CapEx.
This decrease in maintenance CapEx is largely driven by increased efficiency within our maintenance operations primarily in the area of new lighting systems.
We now expect to generate AFFO growth of about 23% for the year or over 26% on a core basis.
Moving on to Slide 12 and in summary we have been able to carryover the operating momentum we saw in the first half of the year into the third quarter.
Strong U.S.
organic core growth in revenue continues to be driven by investments in 4G coverage in capacity while most of the international activity we are seeing is related to significant investments in 3G.
We translated this organic core growth together with contributions from new assets to solid adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share growth in the quarter with both metrics significantly outperforming our long-term growth targets.
In addition we declared a common dividend of $0.36 per share or about $143 million representing an increase of nearly 29% as compared to the third quarter of 2013.
We believe we are well-positioned to sustain this momentum and as a result are once again raising our 2014 outlook across all of our key metrics.
By year end we expect to have deployed about $3 billion through our capital allocation program and to have simultaneously achieved our de-levering targets.
Although we will wait to issue formal 2015 guidance until our Q4 call in February we remain confident that our long-term target range of 6% to 8% organic core growth in the U.S.
and at least 200 to 300 basis points above that in our international markets is supported by the underlying demand trends we are seeing across our footprint.
We believe that this organic growth complemented by our consistent and disciplined capital allocation strategy will enable us to continue to deliver strong growth in AFFO per share.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Jim for some closing remarks before we take Q&amp;A.
Jim? President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
It has been our practice in prior third quarter calls I will focus today’s remarks on the fundamental trends in wireless technology and markets which we believe will continue to drive network investment and long-term growth for American Tower.
Based on the integration of our most recent internal and external research our main three conclusions are that: first the number one factor that correlates to our U.S.
core organic growth rate is the total amount of data traffic carried on the domestic networks of the major carriers; the second is the consumers that upgrade from basic functionality to smartphone type handsets in the U.S.
or elsewhere to use substantially more data per month and that their data usage then increases significantly over time after they upgrade; and third within our international served markets handset upgrades and related data growth are likely to occur at a much more rapid pace that has been the case in the U.S.
due in part to significantly cheaper handset pricing.
So let’s begin by diving into the results of our most recent assessment of the drivers of our domestic organic core growth.
Using our multi-variant regression analysis we found that wireless carrier CapEx spending total carrier service revenue and data as a percentage of service revenue do continue to be among the key indicators.
However one specific metric exceeded all of these as well as the other 26 independent variables that were evaluated.
That number one metric with the highest predictive relationship to our domestic growth rate was total mobile data traffic.
We then evaluated the underlying drivers of total mobile data traffic and the resulting long-term forecast for its growth in the U.S.
We found two predominant root causes of data traffic growth here.
The first being the number of devices in the market by technology type basic feature phones primarily designed for talk text and e-mail versus smartphones with a much broader array of apps for Internet use social networking gaming and entertainment generally utilizing a touch-screen interface.
The second root cause identified was the increase in monthly data usage of each type of device over time is measured in gigabytes per month.
When combined these factors underpin the projected doubling of data traffic every 2 years to the end of this decade on the U.S.
wireless network.
Let’s spend a few moments on smartphone device penetration in U.S.
as shown on the next slide.
In the United States the launch of the original Apple iPhone in 2007 and the App Store in 2008 served as catalyst for widespread smartphone adoption.
However it took until 2012 for smartphone penetration to first overtake the basic feature phone.
And even today 30% of the U.S.
population still has yet to upgrade to a smartphone.
Three years after that first iPhone launch U.S.
wireless carriers began deployment of their fourth generation or 4G mobile networks to meet anticipated consumer demand that they were seeing.
Early adopters of 4G saw tremendous improvement in the quality of their mobile experience especially with respect to video music and social media applications.
Consequently 4G subscribers gravitated to more and more advanced applications or apps that requires significantly higher bandwidth.
The resulting proliferation of mobile video for example is now one of the major drivers of overall mobile data traffic growth in the U.S.
For example watching a 30-minute Netflix Show in high-definition uses 164 megabytes of data.
This is the equivalent of sending 11 000 e-mails as you can see on the chart.
The proportion of consumers who regularly stream TV shows and movies on their smartphones continues to grow across all demographics with the highest levels of growth unsurprisingly concentrated among younger consumers.
In just the last year the percentage of adults age 18 to 24 who watch TV shows and movies at least once a week on their smartphones increased by 50% with nearly half of consumers in this age group watching shows weekly using their smartphone device.
Consumers are also streaming more music which is driving increasing traffic over the mobile network.
One domestic carrier is even offering consumers free music streaming with a data subscription in an effort to compete for more wireless subscribers.
Streaming one song uses around 2 megabytes of wireless data.
So a consumer that streams 30 minutes of music each way on their commute to work over the course of a month uses nearly a gigabyte of data which is equivalent to sending 60 000 e-mails.
The longer a subscriber uses a 4G phone the more familiar they have become with mobile apps such as music video social networking and gaming and they tend to use these apps more often.
In addition as more of the subscribers friends and family upgrade to 4G service the more people they have to interact with using broadband apps such as YouTube FaceTime Instagram and Facebook.
Consequently the average 4G smartphone today uses 50% more network capacity per month compared to just a year ago.
As a result of 3G to 4G migration and accelerating utilization of high bandwidth apps the average smartphone subscriber in 2013 use 42 times the network capacity of a traditional feature phone user.
Moreover we are still in the early stages of this technology cycle with 4G LTE mobile device penetration in the U.S.
at just 30% which that is expected to double over the next 5 years to 60%.
And as you would expect mobile computing devices such as 3G and 4G capable tablets and laptops draw even more data usage per month from the network.
Therefore given the relatively low current levels of 4G LTE penetration and the forecasted rapid growth of adoption with respect to both handsets and computing devices U.S.
mobile data usage is forecast to more than double every 2 years through 2018 which we feel will strongly support our U.S.
organic core growth expectations over the course of the period as Tom pointed out.
Furthermore extrapolating the compounding effect of increasing 4G device penetration and expanding monthly data utilization results in mobile data traffic growth projections to be on the order of 16 times between 2014 and 2024.
Over that 10-year period while additional spectrum and improved spectral efficiency will provide both some additional data capacity for carriers we expect that these two improvements alone will not be sufficient to preserve the network quality that subscribers demand.
So while traffic data is expected to grow around 16% over those next 10 years average spectral efficiency is expected to grow just two times and the amount of available spectrum is expected to increase by only 40%.
This leaves a significant gap which we believe will need to be filled with wide spread carrier investments and incremental cell sites and transmission equipment.
In urban areas where population density is about 5 000 people per square mile we expect a significant portion of the incremental investment will be made in macro site supplements such as small cells Wi-Fi and other capacity solutions many of which American Tower offers today through its distributed antenna system installation.
However we believe that the majority of U.S.
future network investments will continue to be deployed in suburban and rural environments where over 85% of the U.S.
population resides.
From capacity coverage and economic perspectives we believe the traditional macro’s tower network will also continue to be the preferred solution in these types of areas.
And since 95% of our U.S.
assets are located in suburban and rural environments with 85% of the people we fully expect that these longer-term trends will continue to support strong organic growth for our U.S.
business well into the future.
While mobile data consumption on smartphones and computing devices alone is expected to grow dramatically there is also emerging technologies that are expected to create even more demand.
The number of new devices reliant on wireless network connections or the Internet of things continues to grow as our cars homes and even electrical meters are becoming increasingly interconnected through wireless systems.
It’s expected that this Internet of things will drive 31% of total U.S.
mobile traffic in 2018 up from just 17% today.
Additionally while our smartphones and tablets will primarily use the 4G network by this time other connected devices will be still use – utilizing 2G and 3G further prolonging the long lifecycles of those legacy technologies.
Turning now to our international markets we anticipate similar patterns in smartphone adoption and increasing monthly utilization resulting in significant increases in total data traffic.
Most of these markets are at least one mobile technology behind the U.S.
and compared to smartphone penetration of 70% here as discussed earlier our rapidly evolving and emerging international markets range between approximately 10% and 20% versus that 70%.
A great example is Brazil one of our largest international markets producing around 8% of our rental and management revenues.
The wireless sector in Brazil is at roughly the same pace – place as the United States was in 2009 with smartphone penetration of approximately 20%.
While that smartphone penetration in the U.S.
grew from 20% to 70% over the last five years we believe that the slope of the adoption curve could be even steeper in a country like Brazil given the greater availability and relatively lower cost of advanced devices today as compared to five years ago.
As a result mobile data usage in Brazil is expected to grow 10 times over current levels by 2018.
To support this type of mobile data expansion we believe the Brazilian carriers will need to invest significantly in their existing networks.
This need is illustrated further by our estimate that there are currently 4 400 subscribers for cell site location in Brazil compared to just 1 500 for cell site locations in the United States.
The case of Brazil is representative of the state-of-wireless-networks in many of our international markets and we anticipate that we will be able to convert high levels of incremental carrier investment to strong core organic growth across our entire international segment.
Another example is South Africa mobile data traffic there is expected to grow at 53% CAGR through 2018 of a base of just 20% smartphone penetration today.
To support this evolution carriers and handset manufacturers are working to get low-cost smartphones to South African consumers.
In August for example Vodacom as you can see on the chart introduced an affordable smartphone for South African consumers that retails for about $50 and includes 250 megabytes of free data to get customers familiar with its capabilities.
Two other major South African carriers also introduced smartphone devices for $180 earlier this year.
This trend is also benefiting consumers in India where mobile network access is already vital to consumers.
Over 90% of Internet connections in that country are made over a mobile network and there are virtually no wired alternatives.
Last month Google introduced its first family of Android One phones in India that offer fairly advanced capabilities starting at around $100.
Additionally Google has teamed up with one of our major Indian customers Airtel to enhance the value proposition to consumers by offering 100 megabytes of free data for application downloads.
Essentially consumers in India will now be able to buy a smartphone with 70% of the functionality of a mid-tier U.S.
smartphone at just 30% of the cost.
This should help drive rising smartphone penetration and data growth given that penetration is just 10% in India today.
So in conclusion we believe the investments we have made position us very well to benefit from the expansion of wireless networks within the United States and throughout our international markets.
Domestically we are still in the early stages of the 4G technology deployment cycle and we expect rising consumer adoption to drive increasing data traffic and sustain strong organic growth for our U.S.
business for the foreseeable future.
Longer term we believe that the increasing number of technologies utilizing the mobile wireless network from connected cars to smart meters could expand the size of the wireless network market and drive even more growth.
Meanwhile our international operations continue to benefit from favorable technology trends as well the availability of cheaper smartphones the lack of fixed line alternatives and the presence of emerging middle classes eager to use advanced wireless applications and devices are all driving significant levels of network investments across all these countries.
We have been able to convert these investments into organic core revenue growth significantly in excess of the U.S.
and expect to continue that as long as these long-term trends progress.
Thanks again for joining us today.
And Tom and I will now be happy to take your questions.
Operator you please go ahead and open up the call.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Michael Rollins from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I had two if I could.
The first is when you look at the size of your international portfolio how is the Board and the management teams thinking about the optimal size of international versus domestic in terms of the mix? I feel like a few years ago you had some aspirational targets of where you wanted to get international too and curious where that might be today? And then secondly and related is there a level or set of circumstances in which you may consider separating the domestic business from the international business? Thanks.
Michael good morning it’s Jim.
We have said publicly couple of times in the past that given our really strong positioning both in the U.S.
and in these major markets that we have selected overseas that we no longer have a sort of percentage revenue target that we are aspiring to but rather given that widespread kind of aperture of opportunities that we are just going to pick the very best ones whether they are in the domestic market or they are in global markets.
We have a really disciplined approach to that as you have seen conduct over the years and we have made investments over the last 12 months sizably in both sides of that equation.
So we will continue – we expect to do so.
As far as separating the business that’s not something we contemplated.
We feel that there is incredible amount of management synergy knowledge of how to do master lease agreements our global financial and financing abilities were increasingly getting local currency debt in the number of markets for example.
So we think that this is a strong global company and intend to keep it that way.
Thanks very much.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate your forecasting of data traffic growth I thought the analysis was real interesting.
I was wondering if you could comment on some of the technological advances that we have made – might be seeing specifically – especially in densely populated areas one thing that kind of peaked our interest was the mesh networks that were being created in Hong Kong so that the protesters could communicate with each other where I think it’s the cell phones that are specifically talking to each other is that technology in it’s infancy is that a real threat down the road? We don’t see mesh networks or P-cells or small cells or Wi-Fi as a threat to our core business at all because our core business is in rural and suburban environments with population densities under 5 000 people per square mile.
That’s a really important demographic measures that you need to keep track on.
And a crowd in Hong Kong is almost the opposite of a rural or suburban environment because of the density of people that are in one place.
Same can be said of Time Square during a summer afternoon when there are lots of tourists.
And those are kinds of places where a lot of these technologies should be employed.
The capacity requirement in an extremely targeted geographic area is so great that those technologies do make sense.
99.4% of our towers serve locations with less than 10 000 people per square mile and 95% of our towers serve places with less than 5 000 people per square mile.
Those types of areas based on coverage and capacity equations in RF physics and also on the economics of how many sites you would need to put together or to enable from a bad call and computing perspective to make a network operate in those kinds of topologies just it essentially insist that the towers is the correct solution if you do all the math.
I appreciate your response.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of David Barden from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot guys.
So I guess maybe two questions if I could.
First one for Tom would be just on the opportunity set on the radar screen right now we see Verizon we see America Movil contemplating a big tower sale I don’t expect you to comment on kind of what’s preferred but could you scope out your financial wherewithal as it stands right now your willingness to kind of go back up to the high 5s in leverage plus your revolver plus your other financing resources what is your resource pool to go after all these big opportunities that seem to be on the radar screen.
And then second Jim just maybe a follow-up on that question earlier was we are obviously having a very strong period right now as we look into ‘15 ‘16 the carriers are saying that they are going to be deploying more of their capital towards those densification efforts maybe in areas where your tower portfolio isn’t as dense and we have got the Clearwire decommissioning the Metro PCS decommissioning the LEAP integration at AT&amp;T should we be expecting that growth is more likely to be slower rather than steady or faster in the next couple years because of these forces and if you could talk to that that will be helpful? Thanks.
David this Tom I will take them in order.
First to your first question relative to kind of the strength of our balance sheet and the strength of our ability to access the markets I think our history kind of speaks for itself.
I mean if you take a look at the transactions that we have done over the last year we have added 14 000 towers in the last 12 months.
And we have been able to manage that in a way that we have been able to de-lever we have been able to continue to fund the business continued to obviously increase even the rate of our dividend and de-lever in such a way that we ended the quarter at 5.1 times net debt to LQA EBITDA.
So I think relative to all of the transactions and candidly there are many transactions around the globe in addition to the two that you had just mentioned that it makes sense for us to look at.
And as Jim mentioned we have used the same discipline in capital allocation strategy and investment thesis for 15 years.
And so it has served us well.
And we also have additional facilities we put in place.
I mean as I mentioned we have $3.5 billion of liquidity available.
So I think as we have talked in the past to the extent that the transactions are strategic and makes sense for us we have told our investor base that we would be willing to use equity where if it makes sense but we are very committed to our target leverage of 3 to 5 times net debt to EBITDA.
We think long-term having that kind of quality balance sheet and investment grade capability giving access to market and lower cost of funds is one of our core foundational strengths that we have in our business.
So we have I think a lot of opportunity a lot available to us in terms of being able to raise the kind of cash if in fact those deals presented themselves.
And David it’s Jim.
We will provide guidance for 2015 as Tom said in February and the reason we think it’s important to provide the guidance then is we have a lot more information on very specific carrier projections for CapEx plans individual company sort of application flow with us and a lot of other data.
So we will provide the guidance specifically then.
But we want to just remind everybody we have run this company for 5-year 10-year and 20-year time horizons and the overall trends we feel are going to support the 6% to 8% domestic core organic growth for us over certainly that 5-year and 10-year time horizon in our Q with everything we know today.
There will be some ebbs and flows and individual and even collective carrier spending for market or country but when you have the differentiation we have across major positions with all four national carriers in the U.S.
in addition to that we have tremendous diversity across regions customers and technologies in our international segment.
I think again we can be very confident that between the 6% to 8% domestic core organic growth and 200 to 300 basis points above that again for that 5-year to 10-year time horizon you are going to get a more stable output from AMT in any given year than you are going to get from sort of a portfolio that’s much more weighted to say one country whether it’s here in the United States or others.
So that’s how we run the business.
And we do think that the consistent technology trends the strength of the mobile operators who whether they are in the U.S.
or overseas are very very sizable companies and also the fact that in the U.S.
85% of the people have to be served over that time.
We are not going to see tremendous fluctuation in our growth rates anywhere.
Great thanks Jim.
Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Jim where do you think we have wireline replacement it seems like the carriers are building out more and more in rural areas is there any insight on how those trials are going and the ability to basically do that? And then secondly just your insight to maybe how the voice-over-LTE trials are going at this point now and the quality of that? Thanks.
Sure.
One of our served vertical industry initiatives has been rural employment.
So we have relationships both with the major carriers that are looking to do some of that work and their rural operator partners.
There is a solid trend of deployment going on in these markets but it is a complementary piece of our sort of massive core U.S.
business.
It’s not going to be an overwhelming part.
So definitely helpful along with some of our other verticals that we work with and constructive but again it’s not overwhelmingly impactful but positive.
From voice-over-LTE perspective the two leading national carriers in that are Verizon and AT&amp;T.
Verizon feels again we are just with – I would respect our customers who basically reflect their public statements.
And so public statement from Verizon has been that they are finishing coverage they are going to be launching the product over the next year or so.
AT&amp;T is in this similar sort of perspective with the commercial launch they say within the next year.
So the two carriers that will probably come out first with widespread VoLTE will be those two but also T-Mobile has been working on it and we have sort of yet to hear from Sprint on that particular topic.
So over the course of 2015 I think you will see more advertising for this kind of product more handset deployment that includes the technology that’s needed.
And so it will take a few years to roll it all out but it looks like it’s starting in 2015.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks for taking the question.
There is an emerging conversation about whether tower operators should be paying out a much higher percentage of their AFFO as a dividend.
You are in an unusual position for a REIT in that because you still have NOLs you are able to retain most of your cash and reinvest it in the business.
And so just a couple of questions here.
First could you just remind us sort of where you are in the utilization of your NOLs? At what point in time for REIT requirements will you have to go to a higher payout and what would that look like? And then just also remind us why are you choosing to do this meaning you could just have a very high payout right now if you wanted to? What are the factors that have caused you to think it makes the most sense to retain your cash or alternately what would cause you to change your mind about paying out a higher percentage even if you weren’t required to? So Brett this is Jim.
I am going to start off and then I will turn it over to Tom for some of those specifics on the NOLs and the payout ratios and all.
But I think you are well aware since you have been covering the company for quite some time that since I have joined in 2001 in American Tower we have had a consistent discipline and decisive strategy based on three strategic pillars.
The first of those was and still is achieving large-scale and leasing tower assets in the U.S.
and other select major markets.
The second of those was continuously improving our operational capabilities on our contracting skills which are really critical.
And then thirdly was maintaining a strong balance sheet enabling us to the acquire assets at depressed prices in times of dislocation in capital markets.
So all three of those pillars remain really important to us.
Our capital allocation strategy our financial leverage targets and our dividend policy are all really meant to enable the execution of the three pillars of our strategy.
So the combination of organic growth for operational excellence and inorganic growth through acquisitions and construction programs have worked we think really well for the company during this whole period of time.
So our management teams focuses on optimizing the returns on our existing assets on generating maximum cash flow from those assets and then reinvesting that cash flow augmented by what we call appropriate leverage levels.
And so we are constantly evaluating the opportunity set of acquisitions as we have already talked about and seeking attractive construction opportunities with the goal of investing in our business whenever it meets our discipline decision criteria.
And knowing there is excess cash you have seen us return it to shareholders beyond our REIT distribution through share repurchases.
And some of those share repurchases say 4 5 years ago when the opportunity side of acquisitions wasn’t that great those repurchases were quite sizable.
So this straightforward capital allocation strategy has consistently generated strong cash flow growth and returns for our shareholders and we intend to continue to pursue that again in disciplined manner and decisively.
So Tom why don’t you ahead? Yes I would just add on to that Brett couple of things.
First of all is in my remarks I talked about us allocating about $3 billion of capital this year and just to kind of reinforce what Jim had said I mean $1.5 billion of that will be on acquisitions assuming the closure of the acquisition that we have pending down in Brazil $1 billion on CapEx and $0.5 billion plus relative to our dividend.
So again it’s very consistent it’s all simultaneous it’s driving return on investment to our shareholders in terms of driving AFFO per share driving accretion driving value that way as well as complementing it with we think a very strong dividend.
With regards to the dividend we will pay out about 30% of our AFFO this year.
We started the year with about $650 million of NOLs and will end the year with about $300 million of NOLs which will probably get utilized over the next 18 months or so.
So as a result we would expect over the next few years to be up in the 40% to 50% of AFFO payout.
And again that’s what’s driving the 20% plus growth in the dividend.
And as you saw on the last dividend payment last quarter it was 25% to 30%.
So we think that this whole balance in terms of being able to kind of really walk and chew gum at the same time driving top line good performance in the business as well as a solid growth into dividend really putting them together provides a really compelling return story.
And it’s worked as Jim said for 15 years and we have stuck to that game plan and it’s all within the construct of having a very strong balance sheet and we think that’s going to position us really well going forward as it has in the past.
And just to clarify when you are at that point where you are closer to a 40% to 50% payout after you have utilized the NOLs I would assume that that was essentially a proxy for the taxable net income in the QRS because that’s roughly what you’ll be required to distribute? That’s exactly right.
And are there any challenges bringing cash back home from overseas to pay the dividend or is that something you get around simply by including that in the QRS and you don’t’ have deal with repatriation? Keep in mind that even if and we do have a couple of properties in the REIT mainly Costa Rica Germany and Mexico.
And even through the taxable income is generated there it doesn’t mean we have to bring back the cash from there to meet the dividend requirements.
So no we can use cash that’s generated in the U.S.
to meet all of the REIT distribution requirements.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Hi great.
Thank you.
A few question if I may.
One it seems like there is a lot of talk about capital market activity in Brazil I was wondering if you could just talk about what the potential for consolidation in that market would be on your business or what you think it could be.
And then the second question you cited this traditional 6% to 8% organic growth rates in the U.S.
that you are targeting long-term obviously we are doing to your own guidance greater than 9% this year any sense whether based on what you are seeing right now would suggest that you are getting to get back to that 6% to 8% next year or is there still what you think an ability to sustain higher than above average at least for the next 12 months? Thanks.
Colby this is Jim there are often rumors of industry or operator consolidation whether it’s the U.S.
or other markets.
We have a solid understanding of what is in a number of scenarios but we are not sure any of them are going to play out so I think speculating on that right now is premature.
And as we talked about we will provide guidance with all kinds of specifics around it in February for 2015.
And the company’s public statement for last few years has been always for the mid and long-term that we expect 6% to 8% organic growth in the United States for the foreseeable future.
So we will update that or be more specific I should say in February.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ric.
Hi I have a couple of question.
First back to Brett’s on the dividend is the 40% to 50% payout a little lower than what you had thought historically and could there be some movement of other international assets from the taxable to the qualified REIT subsidiary that would raise that over time? Clearly if we did move other entities into the REIT that would increase over taxable income and clearly the requirement for dividend but we don’t see that now.
Ric we have tremendous amount of headroom on all of our tests.
We think we have the right balance between what’s in the REIT and what’s not in the REIT and I don’t see any change to that in the foreseeable future.
Okay.
And then on the M&amp;A front you had some acquisition with NIHD that was announced but there is still I think maybe a ballpark of 900 towers that you hadn’t closed yet any thought on if those are still going to close and the BR Towers it seems like maybe you didn’t hedge that so the currency fluctuation has caused it to be a lower price now? Yes.
I mean on the BR – I mean first of all on the NII I mean we will continue to look at those.
We are not going to be – we haven’t brought significant amount of them in but we have the ability to kind of cherry pick which ones makes sense for us and so it’s been relatively immaterial in terms of any incremental activity on that front.
And with regards to the BR acquisition yes it’s right.
I mean the currency is now at 2.45 I think to the dollar.
We expect to again close that in the – sometime during the quarter we have it included in our guidance Ric so I just want to make sure that people understand that.
And for 2014 or 2015 we will roll that out as part of our guidance when we rollout it out in February.
So we are continuing to be excited about the acquisition about that particular opportunity.
We think it’s going to be a great set of assets for us going forward.
And right it’s Jim you are right the purchase price is in reais Brazilian reais so your assumption is correct on the front.
Okay.
And the final question on the kind of M&amp;A side any concern that the regulators whether it’s Mexico U.S.
or elsewhere would have concern about assets and size of tower companies and concentration of towers have you heard anything from any of the regulatory bodies out there? Well we have not received a challenge historically on any of our deals Ric in any of the countries that we are operating in but we can’t predict the future behavior of regulators so I just can’t address what they might do but in the past we have not dealt with any regulatory requests or changes to our proposed deals.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much and good morning folks.
Hey Amir.
I wanted to see if I can probe a bit more on your U.S.
organic growth here.
I mean some of the demand statistics you provided on your prepared remarks certainly helpful in understanding the core technology trends over the mid to longer term but of course there has also been a lot of discussion among both the telco equipment community and the carriers themselves around the pace of investments taking place in the U.S.
I mean I realized that drawing a parallel between their CapEx and your demand levels is a bit more of an art than science but wanted to get a better sense on what you are seeing in the mix between coverage and capacity expansion plans? And particularly what gives you the confidence that in the foreseeable future you will be able to get this sort of 6% to 8% growth? That would be very hopeful.
There is a couple of things going on in coverage and capacity Amir.
And it’s again by major U.S.
operators saw again to kind of summarize and integrate some of their public statements.
So Verizon as regards to LTE has said that it’s essentially got nationwide 4G coverage today and they have also made the point that they need to add capacity to that and they are doing it in a couple ways one of which is to add AWS spectrum to a lot of the sites they have already deployed and so that’s further overlays on sites that were already overlayed with the original 700 megahertz spectrum but part of that capacity also includes new transmission sites which are co-locations for us.
And so we have seen and I think they have said also that they are going to be deploying and have been deploying some more new sites for transmission in addition to those overlays.
With AT&amp;T they are just about again their public statement is up to about $300 million pops is essentially the LTE builders complete for them across the country.
And they have already initiated a program to densify that network they call that project VIP and there is a number of aspects of that which includes better sort of rural coverage also density in urban and suburban areas to be able to handle more of the handsets that are being deployed through their customer base.
The interesting thing about Verizon and AT&amp;T is though the total market in the U.S.
only is about 30% LTE handset penetration those companies are both about 50%.
And so they need to kind of stay and get ahead of the handset deployment that their marketing teams are successfully accomplishing.
Turning to T-Mobile they have adopted what they call a challenger network strategy.
And as of the third quarter they said they had $250 million pops covered with that new network and they are rolling out LTE in 43 of the top 50 markets.
So that’s in process and they think again based on their public statement they will have national coverage by the end of 2015.
And again I think you will see them deploying different kinds of spectrum to get more capacity and density as time goes beyond that.
And then Sprint has essentially successfully completed its first pass the network vision and now they are adding 2.5 gigahertz spectrum and 800 to that deployment.
And so again these are very long-term projects they are multi-year we think and the handset base won’t be sort of totally converted price at the end of the decade.
And I think that you will see these companies having to match the handset deployment with the capacity improvement that’s going to have to go with that.
So we are very confident again about the 6% to 8% for the balance of the decade and probably beyond that.
Jim the detail was very helpful.
I really appreciate that.
And then if I may one quick follow-up here.
Obviously there has been a lot of talk around Verizon’s potential sale of its tower assets.
Now perhaps you can’t answer this but it does seem as though one of the reasons they are somewhat shifting their tone on considering the sale of their assets was the terms by which AT&amp;T was able to sell their assets particularly some of the terms around the ability to reserve space on the towers etcetera.
Clearly you folks didn’t end up procuring the AT&amp;T Towers.
And I was just wondering if that type of attractiveness for Verizon influences whether or not you think that their assets could be attractive or not given sort of where you guys shook out from that perspective? I mean the only answer we can give you is they might be because we have crafted over the last 10 15-year period of time a way to evaluate tower assets that we applied both in U.S.
and overseas.
And that method of evaluation is very much in depth.
There are some terrific people in this specific potential case in our U.S.
tower operation that have been doing this as long as I have been here.
And they know how to model the behavior and we actually learned from prior acquisitions we have done an actual activity in the network to re-inform our assumptions on a lot of these models.
And so we sometimes win using this approach and we won with SpectraSite in 2005 and GTP just last year.
For better or worse as you pointed out there have been a number of portfolios.
We did not meet the requested or competitive purchase price and that includes AT&amp;T T-Mobile Mobility Tower Co.
Global Signal which is essentially the Sprint portfolio of towers.
So it all depends as you sort of were pointing out the combination of purchase price to either the market or the carrier request to trade that asset and the integration of all those terms and conditions that we model over a 10-year DCF of the terminal value.
So unless that entire equation which is a very complex equation works and meets our investment criteria you won’t see us act unless it does meet that investment criteria.
And then the other aspect of our global strategy is that we have never felt and do not currently feel that we have to do a deal because it’s our last inorganic growth opportunity.
We have got many many inorganic growth opportunities currently and in the future whether they are in the U.S.
or elsewhere and therefore we never feel boxed in to have to do a deal.
So it will all come down to the math with us the terms and conditions and the purchase price integration.
Great thank you very much for the incremental color.
Your next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great thank you very much.
Tom I think you mentioned that about two-thirds of your leasing activity was amendments this quarter and that was the reversing a trend of towards more co-locations.
Can you just talk about the dynamic there and how you expect that to trend going forward? Thanks.
Yes sure Simon.
And I think in the last 3 4 months we have seen an increased amendment activity there.
By the way they are – in the U.S.
they are up in the $700 to $800 range.
So they are again high-end kind of amendment activity.
And I think it’s a function of a number of things.
I think one of the questions we had before and some of the comments that Jim made relative to VoLTE I think that we are seeing more activity from our customers gaining nationwide VoLTE coverage.
And so as a result we are seeing more radio heads more electronics actually finding its way on to the platform.
And I think we saw a lot of that activity as I said over the last 3 to 4 months.
I would expect as we have seen in the past that that would again reverse once that coverage is in there and we would then move more to co-los new leasing just as the carriers continue to fill in the some of the capacity elements.
But over the last as I say several months as they have been trying to prepare for VoLTE roll-out I think we have seen that impact and that’s come in the form of amendments.
And is that across all carriers or specific to the big two with their push for VoLTE? Well as Jim said there are a couple that are kind of leading the way in terms of VoLTE and so I think you can assume that it’s more related to those.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut from Evercore.
Your line is open.
That was often close to a dirty word.
Yes.
I have two questions first is in terms of looking at the AFFO outlook for the fourth quarter and I know this is just math here but it does look like there is a sequential step down and that must be related or may be related to some of the incremental sustaining CapEx it looks likes there is a step up.
So if there is any specific projects that are happening in the fourth quarter that would be helpful to understand.
And then second following up on Simon’s question about sort of a shift towards amendments as we think about carrier CapEx and sort of relationships towards incremental revenue opportunity for Tower operators is there better a flow through whether it’s an amendment or a new cell site you through your lens? Thanks.
Yes.
I mean Jonathan on the first question yes I mean as had or always had expected we would see a slight uptick in maintenance CapEx in the Q4.
I think it’s been pretty consistent that way for a number of years.
So while we did increase our AFFO by $35 million we obviously don’t see it as high as we have thought but there is going to be a slight uptick in maintenance CapEx.
And relative to new leasing and amendment it’s kind of interesting because I know that’s from the analyst community that’s kind of a big deal in terms of how much is amendment how much is new leasing.
I mean for us it’s just a sign wave it’s just trends.
They are going to go through a significant amount of amendment activity as the coverage occurs and then as capacity needs are occurring you are going to see the densification.
From just this past quarter in the U.S.
from an amendment perspective it is $700 000 to $800 000 for an amendment and the average new lease I think was probably in the $2 300 range.
So yes I get it from just more revenue coming from the Co-Lo no doubt about it.
But this is all just part of the migration plan and the network plans that the carriers will continue to deploy.
And as Jim talked about I mean this is 4G is going to be the better part of it – of the decade.
So we are going to continue to see these kinds of swings in terms of new amendments and new Co-Lo throughout the balance of the decade.
Great.
Thank you for taking the questions.
You bet.
And this concludes our Q&amp;A session for today.
I will now turn the call back over to our presenters for closing remarks.
That’s great.
I really want to thank you all for joining us today.
If there are any further questions comments Leah and I are here to be able to take those.
So have a great day.
And again thanks again.
And this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
Leah Stearns Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower’s fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our Web site.
Our agenda for this morning’s call will be as follows.
First Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide opening remarks.
Then Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 as well as our outlook for 2015.
And after these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2015 outlook and future operating performance our expectations regarding our pending acquisitions future growth industry trends and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in yesterday afternoon’s earnings press release those set forth in our Form 10-Q for the year ended December 31 2014 and in our other filings we make with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Please note that any reference to our international segments organic core growth during today’s call will exclude the impact of pass-through revenues.
Given our ability to now capture and report pass-through on a site level basis for the full year 2014 we will be excluding it from our reported organic core growth metrics starting in the first quarter of 2015.
In addition this morning we announced our intention to commence an offering of common stock in mandatory convertible preferred securities.
Due to securities laws we are precluded from answering any questions related to these offerings on this call and respectfully request that you focus any questions to our earnings-related material.
With that I’ll like to turn it over to Jim who will discuss our long-term strategy in more details.
Thanks Leah and good morning to everyone on the call.
2014 was a record year at American Tower a result of the attractive locations and characteristics of our assets the strength of our customer contracts and relationships and solid operational execution.
Our rental and management segments generated over $4 billion in revenue for the first time in our company’s history and delivered double-digit growth across all of our team metrics including organic core revenue rental and management revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share.
The cash flow generation of our legacy assets combined with our disciplined approach to inorganic growth also enabled ATC to sustain return on invested capital at the 10% level.
Last quarter during my prepared remarks I highlighted the industry trends that are developing across our served markets.
Today I’m going to review American Tower’s longstanding fundamental strategy and provide segment performance data that clearly demonstrates the sustainable performance being delivered by the execution of that strategy.
Turning to Slide 5.
When I came to American Tower nearly 14 years ago we established a three-prong strategy for our business.
Those three strategic pillars have not changed and they include one to focus on operational excellence.
We strive to further expand our leasing revenue opportunity by understanding our tenants’ needs and satisfying them through our unique expertise in lease contracted.
We then design our business processes to minimize cycle times and deliver superior capabilities in areas such as tower construction and power and fuel management to achieve a preferred supplier position with each of our customers.
Two to maximize the compounding growth and cash flow that’s generated from our existing properties while selectively growing our asset base.
We focused on driving organic growth maintaining stringent cost controls and simultaneously investing in assets around the world but only those that meet our investment criteria.
Three to maintain a strong balance sheet to ensure we have the consistent access to capital markets at attractive rates in all market conditions to fuel our largest strategy.
Our ability to execute our strategic goals has led to total return outperformance versus the S&amp;P 500 in 9 of the last 10 years and accumulative total return including REIT dividends of nearly 500% to our stockholders since 2005.
In that timeframe we’ve grown the company from a primarily domestic U.S.
communications real estate provider with about 22 000 towers to a global leader in the industry with nearly 100 000 sites counting our pending transactions with Verizon Telecom Italia and Airtel.
With the current enterprise value of over $51 billion today compared to $7 billion 10 years ago we’ve not only established global scale but have also positioned American Tower as a credible and reliable partner to many of the world’s leading multinational mobile operators.
As outlined on Slide 6 the bedrock of our major tenant partnerships are master lease agreements that leverage our scale to encourage additional revenue while introducing process efficiency both to our own company and to our clients.
Among the most effective of these contracts are the holistic contract structures that we have with three of the national carriers in the United States which has significantly improved our revenue growth visibility while minimizing churn.
As a result of this contract structure and pro forma for our pending acquisitions we will have nearly $34 billion of non-cancellable revenue or about 8x our 2014 revenues all on the books.
We’ve also created a culture of operational excellence throughout this organization pushing cycle times lower and our customers speed to market faster all to support an improved customer experience that we hope further drives incremental revenue.
Our aim is to make the collocation and amendment process as efficient as possible by aligning our processes and procedures with those of our customers.
Since 2010 for example we’ve reduced our average cycle time for collocations for customers with holistic MLAs by 50%.
In another key operational area tower construction we demonstrated leadership and earning build-to-suit contracts in major markets including the U.S.
Brazil and India.
Based on our well-established expertise and tower construction we secured customer contracts to build over 3 000 towers in 2014.
Meanwhile in our African markets and in India we’ve developed market leading fuel and power management solutions to improve the reliability and operating efficiency of electrical power increasing the attractiveness of American Tower sites to both existing and prospective tenants.
The combination of our asset quality strong contracts operational execution and investment discipline is borne out in our results in the both the U.S.
and abroad.
As you can see on Slide 7 since 2011 we’ve posted domestic organic core growth rates averaging more than 8%.
The GTP portfolio which generated organic core growth of 10.5% in 2014 and the Verizon towers whose revenues we expect to grow at an average annual rate of around 9% to 10% for the next five years are positioned to grow faster than the rest of our domestic base for the foreseeable future.
The Verizon portfolio in particular is poised for strong growth due to the fact that the properties have not been actively marketed previously and have very limited exposure to churn from its existing tenant base.
In fact our sales teams are already receiving inquiries from our customers regarding the Verizon properties who have always wanted to collocate on them but never had the opportunity to do it.
In addition we expect to convert about 85% of incremental revenues on both these portfolios into operating profit given the minimal incremental expenses needed for collocations and amendments.
The flow-through of future growth to AFFO in turn should also be very high.
We expect the combination of our legacy assets in the newer GTP and Verizon portfolios to contribute meaningfully to our organic growth revenue and AFFO per share growth going forward.
By combining an attractive nationwide portfolio of assets with a strong tenant base strategic contract structures and a focus on operational excellence we believe that we positioned our U.S.
business to generate strong revenue and compounding cash flow growth for many years to come.
We look forward to integrating the Verizon assets once the transaction closes similar to the way we were able to outperform our integration targets for GTP.
We also expect to aggressively lease up the Verizon towers beginning shortly after the close especially given the pent-up demand that we believe exist on these franchise locations.
Turning to our international business on Slide 8 we’ve been able to deliver strong organic core growth over the last several years significantly above that of the U.S.
This reflects the aggressive network deployments of large multinational customers like Telefonica MTN Vodafone and many others across our international footprint and has been complemented by average gross margin conversion rates excluding pass-through of about 80% since 2010.
While we continue to expect solid contributions to organic growth from existing assets we also expect that under-marketed portfolios like Airtel Nigeria when they’re closed by us will help generate very strong revenue growth going forward.
The growth rates indicated on the chart for BR Towers TIM and Airtel are the average annual revenue growth rates we expect each portfolio to generate over the next five years as countries like Brazil and Nigeria accelerate the deployment of broadband mobile data.
By diversifying our revenue stream internationally focusing on large well-funded multinational carriers and deploying capital for high-growth assets we believe that our international segment will further elevate and extend our growth trajectory beyond that of our core business for many years to come.
Strong organic growth across our global portfolio has helped drive rising tenancy and improving NOI yields as you can see on Slide 9.
On sites that we’ve actually marketed prior to 2005 we have increased the average tenancy to 2.7 tenants resulting in $7 000 a month in revenues excluding pass-through and a gross margin percentage of approximately 89%.
The combination of contractual escalators amendment revenues and incremental collocations on these assets have led to an NOI yield of more than 25% on those properties.
We’ve been able to replicate this kind of success on towers acquired and constructed between 2015 and 2010.
The 2015 to 2010 vintage has an average of 2.3 tenants over $4 000 in monthly revenues and a gross margin percentage of 85% excluding pass-through while generating an NOI yield of nearly 23%.
Our asset additions since 2010 have primarily focused on low initial tenancy sites which are well positioned for our teams to market for collocation.
As a result these relatively newer sites that we’ve added to the portfolio from 2011 to 2013 currently have an average of 1.5 tenants per tower and a current NOI yield of nearly 8.5% leaving plenty of room for growth.
We believe that we are optimally positioned to replicate our long history of transforming low tenancy underutilized tower portfolios into high cash flow high margin assets with these newer sites.
This also implies to our recently closed acquisition of BR Towers and our pending Verizon TIM and Airtel tower transactions.
As previously highlighted these assets all have existing capacity for incremental tenants in markets with strong wireless industry trends.
As a result we believe we positioned ourselves to deliver a number of years of strong organic growth and the further expansion of the initial NOI yields.
Underlying all this is our ability to fund our growth initiatives with efficient and liquid sources of capital.
And to that end we launched the process to finance our Verizon transaction this morning.
Meanwhile we expect to fund our other pending acquisitions with TIM and Airtel through a combination of cash on hand borrowings under our existing credit facilities and other debt financing.
Our approach is designed to preserve the strength of our balance sheet thereby positioning the company to effectively pursue the longstanding strategy that has served us and our shareholders so well today.
By funding these high growth assets in this manner we expect to retain our investment grade rating while ending 2015 at a net leverage range in the mid-5s.
In addition to collectively being accretive to AFFO per share right out of the gate we expect these transactions and aggregate to generate substantial accretion to our AFFO per share over time.
By combining our balance sheet strength with the other pillars of our corporate strategy we have built a high quality compounding cash flow stream with the lowest churn in the industry a diversified customer base and exposure to the longest demand curve as a result of our high growth international business.
With that I’ll turn it over to Tom for a detailed review of our 2014 financial performance and 2015 outlook.
Tom? Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
We finished 2014 with yet another strong quarter achieving solid global organic core revenue growth adding nearly 6 000 new tower assets and building on longstanding relationships with our wireless carrier customers.
As Jim just highlighted we believe that our accomplishments over the last several years particularly from a strategic perspective will continue this momentum and extend our runway for growth for many many years to come.
If you’ll please turn to Slide 11.
We achieved strong growth in all of our key metrics in the fourth quarter.
Our total rental and management revenue core growth was nearly 18 which included another solid quarter of organic core growth at nearly 10%.
Our commenced new business continued to be generated by large multinational carriers such as Verizon Telefonica T-Mobile and AT&amp;T.
Domestic organic core growth was about 9% with Verizon emerging as our top new business customer for the quarter.
Internationally we generated organic core growth of nearly 13% with Brazil continuing to benefit from record levels of leasing demand and Ghana experiencing the highest level of organic core growth across our international markets at over 40%.
We also completed the acquisition of BR Towers in Brazil in mid-November which contributed about $11 million in revenue for the quarter.
Our adjusted EBITDA core growth was 17% and was generated primarily by our rental and management segments which continues to drive the most profitable growth within our business.
We also generated strong core AFFO growth of nearly 22% in the quarter as a result of an adjusted EBITDA to AFFO conversion ratio of over 100%.
Moving on to Slide 12 we’re extremely proud of the results our teams have delivered in 2014 particularly versus our initial expectations.
As you can see we have meaningfully exceeded our initial outlook for rental and management revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO.
While some of this outperformance was due to acquisitions the majority of the upside was driven by better than expected growth on our existing sites.
A significant driver of this overachievement was our ability to generate organic core revenue growth rates about 200 basis points higher than the midpoint of our initial outlook.
And importantly we are able to convert nearly 85% over $140 million in revenue outperformance into adjusted EBITDA and nearly 90% of that adjusted EBITDA outperformance into incremental AFFO.
Turning to Slide 13 and reviewing our full year results.
Our total rental and management core revenue growth was about 28% with more than 10% attributable to organic core growth.
The remainder of the growth was driven by the over 21 000 new assets we’ve added since the beginning of 2013 with average tenancies of around 1.4.
We commenced 30% more new business on the entire portfolio in 2014 versus 2013 reflecting the significant investments wireless carriers are making in their networks globally.
Our 2014 core adjusted EBITDA grew by more than 27% with reported adjusted EBITDA growth of about 22%.
Similar to the fourth quarter substantially all of our adjusted EBITDA growth for the year was attributable to our rental and management segments.
Despite the addition of the new lower initial tenancy assets I mentioned earlier we maintained our adjusted EBITDA margin at nearly 65%.
Core growth in AFFO was over 27% and almost all of that growth was attributable to our rental and management segments.
Factored into that AFFO growth was an issuance of an aggregate of $1.4 billion in new senior notes and a weighted average interest rate of about 4%.
We also completed a $600 million issuance of a mandatory convertible preferred stock as part of our plan to fund growth initiatives.
We ended the year with over 75 000 sites in 12 markets around the globe and have nearly 23 000 additional towers that we expect to close in the first half of 2015.
Our focus on building relationships with large global tenants and carefully structuring contracts to enhance revenue visibility while maintaining upside potential resulted in another year of consistent profitable growth and positions us well for 2015.
Turning to Slide 14.
Our expectations for 2015 rental and management revenue growth reflect another healthy year of demand for tower space across our global footprint.
At the midpoint of our outlook we expect consolidated rental and management core revenue growth of nearly 12% driven by organic core growth of about 8% with the balance being generated from new properties including the new sites we expect to build in 2015.
We’re forecasting consolidated churn of about 1.8% which reflects the high contract renewal rates of our tenant base and the low number of contracts coming up for renewal this year.
On a reported basis we expect consolidated rental and management revenue growth of over 7% at the midpoint including over 4% of negative impacts from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and a few million dollars from straight-line revenue accounting.
As a reminder none of the impacts from our pending transactions are included in these outlook numbers.
In the U.S.
where we expect organic core growth of about 7% we’re forecasting commenced new business in 2015 to decline about 25% versus 2014 levels driven by a slowdown in spending at AT&amp;T.
We’ve assumed that the other major carriers will be at least as active as they were in 2014 and if there is a reacceleration of AT&amp;T spend there could potentially be some upside later in the year.
In 2014 by comparison excluding the equipment decommissioning agreement we’ve discussed previously our initial outlook implied an organic core growth of just around 7.8%.
We ended up significantly exceeding that number by year end as a result of our ability to capitalize on higher than expected customer demand.
As 4G densification initiatives continue to support rapid expansion in mobile data usage we believe we’re well positioned to generate solid organic core growth across our portfolio.
In our international markets where we expect organic core growth of about 10% we are forecasting total new business commencements to be in line with those generated in 2014.
We expect our Latin American markets to have another very strong year in 2015 as carriers like Vivo in Brazil and Avantel in Colombia aggressively rollout 3G and 4G networks.
African markets also are expected to perform well as large carriers like MTN and Vodafone rollout 3G across their footprints with select 4G deployments in South Africa.
Finally we expect activity in India at roughly comparable levels to 2014 with Reliance Jio continuing to deploy 4G in urban centers and the other major carriers following suite.
Turning to Slide 15.
We also expect solid growth in adjusted EBITDA and AFFO in 2015.
Beginning with adjusted EBITDA we’re forecasting core growth of nearly 12% as the midpoint of our outlook with reported growth of about 8%.
This growth includes the impacts of an expected decrease in services operating profit of about $12 million as compared to 2014 given the conclusion of several large services projects last year.
We remain focused on property level cost controls as well as SG&amp;A costs and expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be right around 9% similar to 2014.
In addition our land acquisition program continues to benefit our margins with over 2% of our U.S.
land expense base eliminated through prior years land purchases.
Accordingly EBITDA margins are expected to be over 65% and as we generate incremental new business across our portfolio of properties we would expect our margins to continue to expand.
I just want to remind you that once our pending transactions close due to their combined lower initial average tenancy of around 1.5 tenants per tower our margins will temporarily decline.
This does not change our long-term expectations of our ability to increase margins across the portfolio as we fully expect margin expansion on these assets once we begin actively marketing and leasing them up.
Turning to our outlook for AFFO we expect core growth of over 13% at the midpoint which will be driven by the growth in adjusted EBITDA net of interest cost associated with our 2014 acquisitions as well as slightly higher maintenance CapEx assumptions due to our larger asset portfolio.
We expect all of our growth in AFFO to be generated by our rental and management segments.
At the midpoint of outlook and assuming the weighted average diluted share count of just over 400 million shares our outlook midpoint for AFFO per share will be around $4.91.
Moving on to Slide 16.
In 2015 consistent with the last several years we expect our primary method of returning capital to stockholders will be through our redistribution.
The amounts and timing of our dividend payments are at the discretion of our Board but our goal continues to be to deliver annual dividend growth of over 20%.
We currently plan to spend between $800 million and $900 million in CapEx during the year which includes the construction of about 3 000 sites at the midpoint including around 150 to 250 sites in the U.S.
Given our pending transactions in the U.S.
Brazil and Nigeria and our global construction pipeline we anticipate having about 100 000 sites by year end.
We also expect to spend about $180 million on land acquisitions while also targeting to opportunistically extend over 2 500 leases domestically.
Pro forma for the Verizon transaction we expect to have over 60% of the land under our domestic sites owned or under our control for 20 years or more.
Finally we continue to maintain an active deal pipeline and continue evaluating acquisition opportunities around the world.
Our capital allocation priorities in 2015 will continue to support our corporate strategy of growing our asset base profitably while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Turning to Slide 17.
We remain focused on strategically and opportunistically expanding our global business.
This is reflected in the nearly 23 000 towers we expect to add to our portfolio through three transactions in the first half of this year.
Our recently announced Verizon deal will enable us to add nearly 11 500 towers to our U.S.
asset base while meaningfully expanding our relationship with a very high quality investment grade tenant.
As Jim noted earlier we think this is an excellent portfolio of historically under-marketed under-leased towers that are well positioned to generate significant organic core growth for an extended period of time.
We believe that this portfolio will generate compounded annual growth and revenue over the next five years between 9% and 10% and will help us extend our organic growth trajectory in the U.S.
We expect to close the Verizon transaction by the end of the first quarter.
We expect to close our previously announced transaction in Nigeria with Airtel in the first half of the year which will allow us to commence operations in our newest high growth international market.
By acquiring about 4 800 sites from Airtel we will gain meaningful scale in a country which has the largest economy in Africa with a fast growing wireless sector and an extremely young extremely mobile population with virtually no fixed buying infrastructure in place.
Similar to Ghana and Uganda which generated organic core revenue growth of nearly 30% in 2014 we would expect these Nigerian sites to generate strong growth going forward to support our required high teen to low 20% unlevered returns.
Finally we expect to acquire about 6 500 sites in Brazil from Telecom Italia also in the first half of the year which will bring our portfolio in the country to over 18 000 towers.
Brazil has been one of our fastest growing markets over the last several years and organic core revenue growth in 2014 was over 19%.
Given the current state of network infrastructure in Brazil we believe that our customers will need to continue to make significant investments in their mobile networks.
We are extremely well positioned to benefit from this given our strategically located footprint.
With a 20-year anchor lease with TIM on this portfolio and significant opportunities for organic leasing growth we expect Brazil to be a key growth driver for our business going forward.
As a reminder and as I’ve said we have not included any impacts from these pending transactions in our current outlook for 2015.
On an annualized year one basis we would expect the portfolios to collectively generate revenues of around $815 million and gross margin of about $390 million.
In addition we expect them to collectively be modestly accretive to AFFO per share in their first full year and increasingly accretive thereafter.
Pro forma for these transactions we expect to have nearly $34 billion in non-cancellable revenues representing over 8x pro forma 2014 revenue.
With an average pro forma remaining lease term of nearly seven years we have a solid foundation on which to drive incremental revenue and cash flow for many years to come.
Moving on to Slide 18 our pending transactions reflect the continuation of our long history of prudent capital deployment.
As you can see in these charts from 2007 to the midpoint of the 2015 outlook we issued this morning we will have recorded annual growth rates in rental and management revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO of at least 14% with growth in AFFO per share at nearly 16%.
We have also simultaneously increased our return on invested capital attained an investment grade credit rating and have grown the company from just over 20 000 sites to a pro forma total of nearly 100 000 towers creating the most comprehensive and diversified independently operated global network of towers in the world.
As a result we believe that we have positioned the business to continue to deliver consistent recurring cash flow base growth while generating compelling total returns for our stockholders.
On Slide 19 and in conclusion we had another strong year in 2014 with core growth in rental and management revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO all over 27% and organic core growth of more than 10%.
Given the ever increasing global demand for wireless services in our diverse portfolio we expect another very solid year of profitable growth in 2015.
By combining our high quality legacy asset base with the more than 27 000 previously underutilized under-marketed sites we will be adding through recently closed and pending transactions we expect to extend our organic growth profile and enhance our ability to drive strong growth in AFFO per share over the long term.
We believe that our continuing focus on operational excellence coupled with select strategic investments solidifies our status as a premier global owner and operator of communications real estate.
Finally as Leah mentioned right up front I do want to remind you that we have begun our efforts to finance our Verizon transaction.
Under federal securities rules we are limited in our ability to discuss the financing on this call.
We ask that you please refer to our filings we have made this morning with the SEC for additional information.
With that I’d like to open up the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much and good morning folks.
Hi Amir.
I was wondering if we could talk a bit more about the Verizon assets.
You’ve outlined that your expectations are for this 9% to 10% growth for the assets going forward.
What gives you the confidence and the ability for you folks to get sort of better than normalized organic growth out of those assets? And since you’ve announced the acquisition what type of feedback have you received from some of your customers that sort of further solidifies that growth outlook? First Amir our track record of converting nonperforming assets that are essentially single use by mobile operators into performing assets by commercially leasing them is pretty clear and we outline those in the remarks.
This set of Verizon towers fits exactly into that category.
It’s an asset that the previous owner had used to build its own network to try to get leadership in that space in the United States and wasn’t necessarily focused on marketing those sites to gain lease revenue from other carriers or competitors frankly.
One just sort of specific item of evidence that indicates that we believe the towers are quite largely under-marketed is that unlike other companies in the mobile operator space in the U.S.
Verizon never established to our knowledge an internal tower business to go out and find lessees for these sites process applications generate business et cetera.
Other tower portfolios that have traded in the last few years again it’s our understanding that those organizations did exist in those companies and therefore the initial lease rates when those assets traded were significantly higher than the Verizon asset that we’ve disclosed.
So we think there’s a lot of pent-up demand right off the bat to answer your question Amir.
So that’s the demand side of things.
And our customers as I said are already making inquiries into our sales and marketing team to get on many of these sites.
They weren’t necessarily in the view of those other customers available to them and Verizon frankly wasn’t set up to effectively and quickly process applications and get them up on the towers.
Our tenant base knows that’s exactly our objective here so they’ve already expressed interest.
So that really fills out the demand side of the equation on these sites for us.
On the supply side as we call it the towers have what I call distinctive characteristics as far as height as far as structural integrity and our view is that this is a unique portfolio and that we expect it to have on average one available tenant structural capacity unit without any investment in redevelopment for that.
So this is a very high capacity portfolio with again we think distinctively sizable ground space under the tower that will enable us to put additional equipment for other customers there without necessarily having to expand the compound and getting additional land rights and paying for those.
So both the demand side of the Verizon asset and the supply side we think are distinctively strong.
And the other thing that I do want to highlight is the Verizon operations team managed these assets in a manner that we would consider quite close to the way we would manage these assets in terms of documentation in terms of maintenance.
Just as a key example the speed of which you can – when you’re a tower company lease up sites is in large part initially dependent on the completeness of literally the file that comes with the tower things like ground leases environmental studies documentation on zoning and building permits and things like that.
Because when you go to lease that site to another customer they’re going to want to have all that material.
We feel that again this is a distinctive portfolio in terms of the documentation that comes right with the tower.
So those are some of the demand and supply side benefits we think to this particular portfolio.
Amir I’d like to just add a couple of things.
In terms of the fit with our existing base nearly 50% of the sites have no competing structures within a mile and they’re very well located sites for a potential public safety rollout.
Many of the locations are in less urban areas.
There’s no alternative structures available.
And given the kind of model that we’ve laid out we’re really only talking about adding one additional tenant per tower on average over the entire 10-year period.
The other element is given their low tenancy 1.4 tenants per tower there’s expected to be very little churn on these.
Obviously we have the anchor tenant Verizon and the other third-party leasing activity are the other big three leasing companies.
So we would expect to have very very little churn going forward on this portfolio.
So I think when you couple all of that you conclude that the 9% to 10% is very achievable from our perspective.
Great.
Thank you.
And just one quick follow up in thinking about sort of the organic revenue growth outlook that you guys are expecting for 2015 certainly the step-down at AT&amp;T has been well documented and discussed.
But I was wondering as they move sort of further south and into other territories is there opportunities there for additional growth? And have you baked that into sort of your expectations for near-term organic growth? A fair question Amir.
Yes we are absolutely excited about the opportunity for AT&amp;T coming into Mexico and what they’ve done over the last 90 days.
And no none of the incremental opportunity for AT&amp;T moving into Mexico is included in our outlook.
And when we have more visibility as to what AT&amp;T’s plans are for further build out we’ll update our outlook based upon their activity.
So right now there is nothing in our outlook relative to additional activity that we see from AT&amp;T coming into Mexico.
Thank you very much for the incremental color.
Thanks Amir.
Your next question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ric.
Hi.
A couple of questions.
First on Slide 8 of your deck it talks about the international revenue growth.
2014 shows about 13%.
Is that what Leah was talking about about moving towards X pass-through because I thought I remembered seeing something in the press release of about 15.5% in '14? Ric that’s exactly right.
Now that we have the new – the ability to get the details out at the lease or at the site in '14 we’re actually enabled to look at '14 and '15 without pass-through which we think is a better reflection of looking at real organic growth on the sites.
Okay.
And then on slide – so the drop from 13% X pass-through to the 10% in 2015 I thought you mentioned that most of the international markets you expect strong LATAM Africa well India roughly the same.
Why is it dropped then on apples-to-apples 13 to 10? Well a couple of things.
One is the asset base is bigger so as a result of the larger numbers you won’t get the same type of overall growth rate.
And in 2014 we also had a fair amount of back billing on sites that I have not included that in outlook for 2015.
And as we generate that type of back billing revenue we’ll continually update the outlook.
But that is something as a result of us going out and auditing actually all the sites.
So it’s a very difficult number to predict at the beginning of the year.
And as I said we generated a fair amount of back billing in 2014 and I would hope that we would generate in 2015 but I haven’t included it in the outlook.
Okay.
And this is the same way you did it in '14 guidance I think right? Correct.
Okay.
And another question on Slide 14 the escalations show that in the '15 outlook about 3.5%.
I would think over time as international becomes a larger number like you point out usually inflation and escalators are higher down there.
Should we expect over time the inflation effect and escalators should be higher? Yes you should.
And it’s obviously going to be a function of what the inflation is in that particular year and those particular markets but that’s a fair assumption.
And in fact in 2015 we’re looking at inflation of 4% plus so higher than obviously the U.S.
rates reflecting some of the inflation that we’re seeing in some of those markets.
Okay.
And last question I know you can’t talk much about the offerings that were announced today so I appreciate that.
But just want to understand when you mentioned AFFO per share accretive on some of the deals how do you treat mental [ph] convert such as the May 14 convert and as you look at doing one here this month does that reflect in debt does that reflect in equity? Obvious it’s kind of hybrid.
Yes I mean if you look at our P&amp;L you’ll see at the bottom of the P&amp;L the dividend that we actually are paying on that particular product.
And so as such it’s actually dilutive to AFFO in the numerator.
And as GAAP tells us we look at that on an as if basis where is it most dilutive whether it should be running through the P&amp;L or whether it should be actually in your fully diluted share count.
Great.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
This is Armintas for Simon.
I was hoping you could talk about some of the activity you’re seeing in the U.S.
to get to your 7% organic growth and some of the activity you’re seeing abroad particularly Brazil where we just had the 700 auction and the Olympics are gearing up for next year? And my last question is if you could talk about the M&amp;A landscape for the next one to two years what you’re seeing there and if we should expect any large transactions? Thank you.
Sure.
So let’s start with the U.S.
Our largest volume of signed business right now in the U.S.
is actually coming from Verizon.
And that’s an important point that I want to also highlight that the non-Verizon towers in the American Tower portfolio non-Verizon transaction towers is 75% of our U.S.
portfolio roughly.
So of the 40 000 plus sites only 11 500 are the Verizon towers pro forma so there’s plenty of places for Verizon to grow into with us.
Just a further fact on that the Verizon revenue that are on legacy ATC non-Verizon transaction towers is about 60%.
So 60% of Verizon’s pro forma revenue with us is going to continue to come on non-deal towers therefore there’s going to be nice amendment opportunity over half that revenue base.
So Verizon investing aggressively in its network going forward is going to actually be very helpful to our growth rate and could contribute to that 7% number that you pointed out there Armintas.
AT&amp;T is still going to be active but is a comparison to last year.
2014 was the most active year that we have seen from our perspective with AT&amp;T since I’ve been at the company.
It was an outsized probably a record year for them for mobile spending.
And this year 2015 is the more normalized year for AT&amp;T and also still robust.
So we expect new business from them as well.
But we also see the number two application flow coming after Verizon from T-Mobile.
So T-Mobile is actually increasing in our view its activity level in the network based on some projects that it has going.
And then Sprint is continuing to work through 2.5 gigahertz of some of other projects it has.
So that’s sort of the batting order for U.S.
application flow right now is Verizon T-Mobile AT&amp;T and Sprint.
Then turning to the international market Brazil which is our most significant pro forma international market in terms of revenue.
We’re expecting 19% core organic growth or we just reported it in 2014 we could say that now.
So really high growth market for this asset base.
One of the things that encouraged us to add to the asset base going forward which we’ve done with BRT and now TIM.
As far as Brazil goes you pointed out two of the most important factors I think.
One is the run up to the Olympics and secondly is the 700 megahertz 4G auction and rollout that’s going on.
But I also wanted to cross-connect it from the opposite direction all of Latin America by customers.
So Telefonica we expect to be extremely active in Brazil as well as Mexico.
Its investing across Latin America in 3G deployment.
It is a corporation I think Telefonica wants to increase its competitiveness throughout Latin America in mobile data and Brazil and Mexico are two biggest target markets simply based on their size for that but it’s going to be elsewhere.
Also the run up to the Olympics is going to be demanding investments by all four carriers.
I think TIM is included in that as well as Claro which is the MX [ph] subsidiary.
So we really feel that Brazil is going to continue to be a high growth market for us.
Of course that contributed to our decision to invest and upsize our scale to about 18 000 sites pro forma for the deal.
And finally on the M&amp;A front we don’t speculate on potential deals.
It’s always fluid but we are still in the market and we’re going to continue to apply our disciplined investment approach to fill in especially in existing countries we have or with the existing customers we have opportunities that may come available but we don’t have anything specific to point to at the moment.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Your line is open.
Great.
Can you guys hear me? We can Jonathan.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the questions.
I guess I have just a few most of them have been hit.
First in terms of the acquisition of TIM in Brazil it seems like you guys have started to look at that in real basis as opposed to a dollar basis.
Was there a caller on that deal or you guys benefiting from the increased strength of the U.S.
dollar? We are benefiting from the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
All right great.
I was interested if I could dive a little deeper into the AT&amp;T spend in the U.S.
I think that you said Tom that you were looking for a decrease in new business of 20% or 25% in the U.S.
on the back primarily of AT&amp;T slower spending.
Their spending is dropping about 10%.
And so I’m just trying to understand the translation of wireless spending going down at 10% at AT&amp;T and you’re seeing 20% or 25% less incremental revenue in the U.S.? Is there something about the nature of the spend that’s also changing an impact around you? No I wouldn’t suspect so Jonathan.
When you’re looking at the overall wireless spend it’s very difficult to look at the overall spend and bring that down to what they’re doing on an onsite basis.
And also I would take a look at – what we’re really referring to is kind of the in-year impact of timing of activity.
So again I think it’s very difficult to come up with an apples-to-apples comparison.
The overall rate of new commenced business that we’re looking at in 2015 for our U.S.
domestic business are really equivalent to what we generated in 2013 which was a terrific year and as Jim talked about 2014 just being kind of outstanding year in terms of the LTE and 4G deployments we’re expecting 2015 to come back to really what we expected or did generate back in '13.
Jonathan just an operational element to all this.
We build out guidance and our budget from the ground up operationally meaning application flows that we see late in the prior year and very early in the new year in 2015 in this example are what we use to build up our budget.
So we’re reflecting what we’re currently seeing in the application pipeline for our major customers.
If that was to move up during the course of the year we’ll adjust our guidance but we don’t do it until we see it and it’s too early in this particular case for AT&amp;T to see it.
So we’re not making any prediction of a ramp up that might be more in sync with the numbers that you laid out.
I think also just to add on it AT&amp;T was really active in second half of 2013 and the first half of 2014 so that also had an impact in terms of the volumes that we actually generated from a new business perspective in 2015.
So going back over the last 18 months has an impact in terms of what the new commenced business would be that we would be generating from AT&amp;T and that’s what we see as being 25% below 2014 levels.
That makes sense the timing frontend loaded in '14.
Just one final question if I may.
As we look at the sort of normalized organic core AFFO growth so I think 13.4% at the midpoint of the guidance.
Obviously this is a year where there’s a big impact from foreign exchange movements but as we look out over a longer period of time what should our guidepost sort of be for sort of expectations of targets on the AFFO per share growth? Thanks.
Jim and I have been laying this out over a number of years and looking at the mid-teen core AFFO per share growth and that’s our objective that’s our goal.
It’d be largely driven obviously from growth and EBITDA and increased margin expansion and things that I referred to as well as honing in on all of the other elements of our business including all of the financing costs as well as CapEx related items.
But that’s the underlying objective that we have within the business.
Thanks again for taking the questions.
You bet.
Your last question comes from the line of Michael Bowen with Pacific Crest.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much for squeezing me in.
A couple of questions if I may.
You had mentioned that the lease-up opportunity for the Verizon towers I think you said 1.4 tenants obviously a lot of upside there but also a lot of pent-up demand in those areas.
Can you give us a feel for what some of the customers are saying currently with regard to where these customers might have gone had this transaction not been transacted? And then related to that just wanted to touch on Slide 9.
I don’t think I’ve seen this slide before I apologize if you have done it but for Verizon projected NOI yield for year one and year five can you just walk us through it would seem given the upside for the Verizon towers the 7% in year five might be a little bit light.
But can you kind of walk us through your assumptions and help us understand that? Thanks.
From kind of a growth perspective it’s pretty consistent throughout the entire 10-year period so while we expect kind of initially to be able to get these towers in leasing and marketing them this year we actually expect the growth to be pretty ratable over the entire 10-year period.
So I think that’s really reflective of kind of the 7% NOI yield going forward.
And as Jim identified before we build our growth profile for all of our transactions from the ground up and our sales teams within the United States are incredibly excited about this opportunity.
We get search rings in from all of our carriers every day who are identifying areas where in fact they need RF coverage.
And so that gives us the comfort and the credibility we believe of the pent-up demand and the growth that we expect to see in this portfolio.
The alternatives that any carrier has when there’s a site in the search ring that it doesn’t think it can get timely access to are simply to build their own tower.
We had 600 built-to-suites plus last year in the United States.
Our guidance – this is just a reference point it’s not directly related to any customer but as a reference point in our guidance we have about 150 this year.
So there was a lot of building last year specifically in this market.
Hopefully we can channel some of that to Verizon towers in the future because they’ll now be available on our process and on our contract.
So that’s one way.
The other way is you just don’t put the sell-side out there or you put it in a suboptimal location.
And all of those are poor engineering decisions or financial decisions than collocating on an extremely well positioned tower with good capacity and ground space which is what we’re going to be offering.
Yes.
So would it be fair to say that the Verizon NOI yields really don’t reflect that benefit of the reduction in the build-to-suites? So actually if we wanted to apply that the numbers would look even better because this tower portfolio is now becoming part of the grander scheme of assets? So let me just sort of answer by repeating the baseline that Tom laid out.
With the demand and supply side benefits of this portfolio our investment process in the U.S.
if it can be justified we tend to use one tenant over a 10-year period of time additional leasing.
The entire company in the domestic business here is going to be striving to do way better than that.
But our model doesn’t yet reflect it because we haven’t accomplished it and therefore what you see on Page 9 reflects our deal model and not any kind of expectations of prior outperformance and other portfolios that will be brought in or synergies that are assumed on a revenue basis or anything like that.
This is a very clean model base projection as our BR TIM and Airtel frankly and the company is motivated and incented I’d say throughout the organization to outperform these things.
Okay.
Thanks.
One last quick thing I just wanted to ask with Iusacell and AT&amp;T.
Have you had any preliminary discussions about any potential upside there? All I can say about that is you should assume that we have close and strong and senior relationships with all of our major tenants and that this will be an obvious topic at that level.
So we don’t get into specific meetings or conversations with specific customers.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Great.
Thanks.
Okay operator.
I just want to thank everybody for being on the call this morning spending time with us and I appreciate your attention.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the American Tower First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations Leah Stearns you may begin your conference.
Treasurer and Investor Relations</strong> Great.
Good morning and thank you for joining us this morning for American Tower's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows; first Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the first quarter as well as our outlook for 2015; and then Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide closing remarks.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2015 outlook and future operating performance our expectations regarding our pending acquisitions future growth industry trends and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's earnings press release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and in our other filings we make with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Please note that we have adjusted the definitions of core growth organic core growth and new property core growth to exclude the impacts of pass-through.
You will see this change reflected during today's call and in our earnings materials going forward.
And with that please turn to slide four of our presentation which provides a summary of our first quarter 2015 results.
During the quarter our rental and management revenue grew 10.6% from the first quarter of 2014 to over $1.06 billion.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA grew 13% to approximately $724 million and adjusted funds from operations increased 16.9% to approximately $514 million.
Net income attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders was approximately $183 million and net income per basic and diluted common share was $0.45.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
As you can see we had a strong start to the year with solid global organic core growth in revenue good margin performance across our business the closing of our strategic transaction with Verizon in the U.S.
and just yesterday the closing of the first tranche of TIM sites in Brazil.
We believe that our legacy asset base coupled with the Verizon TIM Brazil and Airtel Nigeria transactions positions us well for not only another excellent year in 2015 but also well into the future.
If you please turn to slide six our consolidated rental and management revenue in the quarter increased by nearly 11% to well over $1 billion.
On a core basis our total rental and management revenue growth was nearly 16% and of this core growth over 9% was organic.
The balance of our core growth or more than 6% was attributable to properties we've added since the beginning of last year including more than 12 000 in the United States and over 8 000 in our international markets.
Turning to slide seven our domestic rental and management reported in core growth in revenue was about 13% with organic core growth of 9.3%.
During the quarter we recognized about $17 million in revenue associated with the decommissioning agreement with one of our major tenants.
As we've said previously this is an agreement that will generate roughly $20 million of revenue annually through 2016.
But the recognition of that revenue will not occur evenly through the year.
Excluding revenue recorded under this agreement from both periods domestic organic core growth would have been approximately 7.4%.
The Verizon tower transaction which we closed at the very end of the quarter generated around $4 million in rental revenue and $2 million in gross margin in Q1.
For 2015 we expect these towers to generate about $300 million in rental revenue and $160 million or so in rental gross margin as well as around $10 million in services revenue and $5 million in services gross margin.
During the quarter our application pipeline showed a significant increase from 3 of our 4 top customers.
This supports our previous expectations that new business activity will be weighted more in the second half of the year.
Domestic rental and management gross margin increased by almost 14% on both a reported and core basis to $585 million and reflected an 87% revenue conversion rate.
We constructed 23 towers in the quarter and purchased or extended the remaining term on more than 350 ground leases with extensions averaging about 29 years.
As of the end of the quarter including the new Verizon sites nearly 60% of the land under our U.S.
towers was either owned or controlled for more than 20 years and we are targeting to achieve 80% within the next five years.
Given that land ownership under our recently added Verizon sites is under 10% we think that we have an excellent opportunity to deploy capital for land at attractive returns over the next several years.
And finally we generated reported and core domestic rental and management operating profit growth of nearly 15%.
This reflects our continuing focus on property level cost controls SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue of less than 4% coupled with strong revenue growth.
Moving on to slide eight our international rental and management segment had a solid quarter with core growth of approximately 22% and organic core growth of about 10%.
Reported revenue which was impacted by the negative foreign currency translation effects of about $50 million from the year ago period was over 6%.
We continued to see strong demand for sites across our portfolio with markets in Latin America such as Brazil and Colombia once again leading the way in terms of total new business commencements generating organic core growth of 12% and 17% respectively.
In addition markets such as India and Ghana are seeing strong momentum from a leasing perspective with organic core growth of 11% and 23% respectively.
The majority of our international organic new business commencements continues to come from large investment grade tenants including Airtel Vodafone and Telefónica who are also the three largest international signed new business customers in the quarter.
In addition we completed the construction of more than 600 build-to-suit properties across our international footprint in Q1.
In India where we built over 400 sites our program is anchored by build-to-suits for operators such as Bharti Airtel and Vodafone.
In Brazil where we completed the construction of over 90 sites our program is primarily supporting the new build needs of Vivo and TIM who are also expected to drive the majority of our new business revenue in the market this year and will support our expectations of seeing mid-teen core organic growth in Brazil this year.
International rental and management gross margin in the quarter grew nearly 12% to about $221 million while core growth in gross margin was around 28% outpacing the 22% revenue core growth.
International rental and management segment operating profit grew 10.5% to $186 million and our core international operating profit margin which excludes pass-through was 73%.
Turning to slide nine reported adjusted EBITDA growth in the quarter was 13% adjusted EBITDA core growth was 17.5% and our adjusted EBITDA margin was over 67%.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 73% and our adjusted EBITDA conversion rate was 93%.
This conversion ratio was impacted favorably by around 100 basis points due to the $17 million in revenue we recorded under the decommissioning agreement I mentioned earlier.
For the balance of the year we would expect our reported conversion ratio to moderate as we add the Verizon sites and the TIM and Airtel portfolios to our asset base due to their lower average tenancies versus our legacy portfolio.
Cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue in the quarter was about 8.7% and for the full year we continue to expect our cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be under 9%.
Longer term we would expect this percentage to decline further as we drive organic growth across the portfolio.
Our strong adjusted EBITDA performance resulted in solid growth in AFFO which increased nearly 17% to $514 million or $1.25 per share.
AFFO per share growth was about 14% which includes a one-time negative impact of about $0.03 per share attributable to the timing of our recent equity issuance versus the actual closings of the Verizon transaction.
Core AFFO growth was over 21% and our adjusted EBITDA-to-AFFO conversion rate during the quarter was about 89%.
These metrics were also favorably impacted by the resulting impacts of the equipment decommissioning agreement.
I do want to highlight that on a sequential basis due to the timing of these decommissioning revenues as well as some seasonality in maintenance CapEx and the timing of our preferred dividend distributions we expect second quarter growth in organic revenues adjusted EBITDA and AFFO to be below what we were reporting for Q1.
This impact will be more pronounced given the bulk of our U.S.
equipment decommissioning revenues last year were recorded in the second quarter.
As a result of this timing difference our expectations for the quarter includes domestic organic core growth of just under 7%.
Excluding the impacts of decommissioning in both periods we would expect Q2 domestic organic core growth to be consistent with Q1 at around 7.5%.
Moving on to slide 10 we are raising our full year outlook for rental and management revenue and adjusted EBITDA due to the addition of the Verizon and TIM Brazil sites stronger-than-expected growth attributable to recurring cash revenues associated with our core rental and management business and slightly higher-than-expected back-billing revenue.
This is being partially offset by the negative foreign currency translation effects implied by our revised outlook FX rates which are calculated by taking the more conservative of the Bloomberg median forecast and the 30-day average spot for each currency.
Our revised outlook FX rates are currently 3% to 4% above yesterday's closing spot rates.
We now expect 2015 rental and management segment revenue of about $4.6 billion at the midpoint.
The increase is driven by about $300 million in additional rental revenue from the Verizon assets including about $20 million in straight-line and $55 million in revenue from the TIM sites.
We also now expect an increase in other straight-line revenue for the full year of about $10 million and about $10 million of other legacy asset outperformance.
This growth is being partially offset by an incremental $75 million of negative foreign currency translation effects relative to our prior outlook and a $10 million decrease in expected pass-through revenue.
As a reminder the impacts of the roughly 2 300 TIM sites we have not yet closed on as well as the 4 800 Airtel Nigeria sites are excluded from our current outlook.
Together we would expect these portfolios to generate nearly $300 million in additional revenue on a full year pro forma basis.
For the year we now expect core growth in consolidated rental and management segment revenue of around 22% which includes organic core growth expectations of over 7% and 10% for our domestic and international segments respectively.
This organic core growth is slightly better than the assumptions included in our prior outlook and on a consolidated basis we expect 2015 organic core revenue growth to be about 8%.
In addition we are increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $150 million at the midpoint which primarily reflects the new assets we have added to our portfolio complemented by organic outperformance and solid cost controls.
The midpoint of our outlook reflects SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue of under 9% and on a consolidated basis we now expect core growth in adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be over 19%.
Turning to slide 11 we are also raising our full year AFFO outlook – the midpoint – by $85 million.
This is being driven by about $175 million in incremental cash EBITDA from new assets and $10 million in incremental cash EBITDA from legacy sites.
This growth is being partially offset by just over $65 million in incremental cash interest and preferred dividend payments which includes the impact of funding the Verizon and TIM Brazil transactions.
We also expect our cash taxes to be lower by over $10 million versus our prior outlook assumptions.
Finally the negative foreign currency translation effects leads to an incremental $45 million negative impact versus our prior AFFO outlook.
We now expect to generate AFFO growth of about 13% for the year or over 21% on a core basis.
As you can see in the chart on the right side of the page we now expect to have about 423 million weighted average diluted shares for the year given our recent common stock issuance which implies AFFO per share of about $4.86 at the midpoint of our outlook compared with about $4.91 at the midpoint of our prior outlook.
This includes an approximately $0.11 per share due to the negative effects of foreign currency translation as well as a one-time cost of $0.03 due to the timing of our equity issuance and transaction closings partially offset by some outperformance in our core business.
However we expect our pending Airtel transaction to provide an incremental $0.05 or so of AFFO per share accretion relative to our 2015 outlook with an anticipated end of May closing date.
So as a result we expect to fully offset the incremental negative impact of foreign currency translation and equity pre-funding costs and AFFO per share for the year and maintain the $4.91 AFFO per share expectation.
Moving on to slide 12 we remain committed to our capital deployment strategy and continue to focus on our goal of simultaneously funding growth returning cash to our stockholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
So far this year we have invested nearly $6 billion to our M&amp;A program declared over $200 million in common and mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends and deployed nearly $160 million in CapEx.
We believe that the combination of our growth in AFFO per share and consistent return of capital to stockholders through our redistributions will create meaningful value for our stockholders.
This includes expected annual growth in our redistribution of over 20% and in fact over the last 12 months growth in our common dividend per share has been close to 30%.
Please note that the amounts and timing of our future redistributions will be at discretion of our board.
We seek to maintain a substantial base of liquidity and as of the end of the quarter pro forma for the first tranche of the TIM deal and the retirement of our 7% notes had over $1 billion in cash in borrowing capacity under our revolvers.
From a capital markets perspective our focus for the remainder of the year will be to further extend duration and ladder out our maturities which today have an average remaining term of about five years with an average cost of less than 4%.
By funding our M&amp;A in 2015 with a combination of proceeds from common and mandatory convertible preferred stock issuances debt and cash on hand we expect to end 2015 with net leverage in the mid-5 times range.
Longer-term our target leverage range continues to be between 3 times and 5 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
Turning to slide 13 and in summary we started 2015 with a strong operational quarter strategically expanded our U.S.
footprint to about 40 000 towers and added nearly 4 200 sites in Brazil by closing the first tranche of the TIM transaction just yesterday.
Our top priority remains driving continued operational performance while focusing on the integration of these portfolios as effectively and efficiently as possible.
As a result we believe we are well-positioned to sustain strong growth in all of our key metrics and are raising our 2015 outlook for rental and management revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO.
Similar to last year we now expect core growth in all three of these metrics to be well above our long-term targets.
By year end we expect to have nearly 100 000 sites worldwide with a solid balance sheet ample liquidity and manageable leverage in the mid-5 times range.
Due to our disciplined consistent global capital allocation program we continue to generate organic core revenue growth that compares favorably to that of our peers with a global portfolio more than double the size of our closest U.S.
publicly traded peers.
Our asset base now with an average current tenancy of just under two tenants per tower and significant exposure to high-growth markets positions us to not only benefit from significant near-term network investments but also sustain strong growth over the long-term.
As a result we expect to continue to deliver consistent recurring growth in AFFO per share and a compelling total return to stockholders.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Jim for some closing remarks before we take some Q&amp;A.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Last quarter I reviewed American Tower's longstanding strategy and provided performance data on the company's successful execution of that strategy.
Today I'll focus on the leasing environment in the U.S.
tower market which is by far our largest segment in terms of financial results.
Our overall conclusion is that ongoing escalating demand for mobile bandwidth especially video will support robust leasing growth in the U.S.
for many years to come and that this will especially benefit our newly acquired Verizon towers given their low existing tenancy franchise locations and distinctive structural and ground space attributes.
Today the U.S.
telecom industry is in the midst of a multi-decade investment cycle supporting the transition of communications in our country and media delivery as well from wired and cordless to truly mobile technologies.
The cycle's first decade occurred roughly between 2000 and 2010 and was mainly characterized by delivering basic mobile voice text and Internet services to the mass market using simple feature phones.
In this period U.S.
wireless penetration rose from 38% to 99% and carriers invested approximately $220 billion in wireless CapEx or about $20 billion a year as voice and data coverage was completed across the nation.
To better support our customers during this timeframe we significantly expanded our domestic tower portfolio.
In 2005 we achieved industry-leading scale by adding more than 7 800 tower sites through our merger with SpectraSite.
Then with the initial iPhone launch in 2007 existing network infrastructure in the U.S.
was rapidly overwhelmed and the market began to transition to the decade of data.
As consumers have shifted more and more of their daily activities to a mobile environment data usage has exploded.
From 2010 through the end of 2014 mobile data usage in the U.S.
grew more than eightfold.
The smartphone penetration tripled during those four years from just 25% or so in 2010 to more than 75%.
Consumers can now buy a cup of coffee or plane ticket hail an Uber or a Lyft pay a bill or transfer funds to or from their bank accounts all on their smartphone.
With more than 400 million connected devices in the U.S.
today generating ever-higher usage wireless carriers have invested more than $135 billion in wireless CapEx since 2010 or around $30 billion a year and are expected to invest another $30 billion or more in 2015.
Moreover while incremental spectrum and technology improvements have helped to alleviate a portion of the strain on carriers' networks most of the solution lies in adding physical equipment such as base station electronics antennas and connecting cables largely deployed on macro towers.
Often even technology improvements such as Voice over LTE eventually lead to additional physical equipment requirements as we described in our prior call.
Another example is the concept known as carrier aggregation in which multiple bands of spectrum with different propagation characteristics are paired together and the result is improved network speeds.
However as 4G penetration continues to grow and mobile data usage inevitably escalates if mobile operators continue to utilize carrier aggregation they will be increasingly compelled to design their network architecture around the highest frequency band being used.
Given the signals using higher frequency spectrum travel shorter distances a denser transmission site footprint to cover a given territory will be needed.
Hence the ultimate outcome of carrier aggregation in our view includes more deployed physical equipment on more tower sites to maintain signal strength and coverage consistently.
Looking ahead over the next five years mobile data usage is expected to grow at nearly 50% annually with much of this growth driven by the expansion of mobile video.
For example the NFL is set to kick off an over-the-top mobile offering this upcoming football season.
In addition Apple HBO and Sony have all announced their intention to participate in direct mobile delivery of premium branded content to handsets.
And Google just last week announced a launch of its own wireless services to promote greater mobile Internet use including for its YouTube videos.
So to facilitate these video and other applications industry projections suggest that 4G penetration should rise from its current level of 40% in the U.S.
to well over 60% or more by 2020.
While we expect wireless trends over the next five years to drive significant incremental network investment and leasing business on our real estate we also believe the outlook for the following decade has the potential to be just as dynamic.
We expect much of the network investment in the 2020s in the U.S.
to be driven by further expansion in high bandwidth mobile video content.
According to Cisco video will account for over 70% of U.S.
mobile data traffic by 2019 and we expect that percentage to increase even further thereafter.
As carriers add density to their 4G networks and as 5G becomes a reality in 2020 and beyond we anticipate the consumers will come to expect that their favorite HD quality video sources should all be available on all of their viewing devices including mobile.
Premium subscriber-based content and live sporting events streamed directly to handsets and tablets will create unprecedented strain on wireless networks and we expect that the majority of the solution for that problem will continue to be to add incremental equipment largely on macro towers.
Given that 84% of the U.S.
population lives outside of core cities and that the average American spends nearly an hour a day commuting in a car bus or train the need for tower-based communications infrastructure is only going to increase over time.
After acquiring GTP in late 2013 and adding the Verizon assets to our portfolio at the end of the first quarter we believe that American Tower is extremely well-positioned to achieve sustainable long-term growth in the U.S.
by providing the mission-critical real estate as these mobile industry trends play out over time.
Our recent transaction with Verizon brought us a very large portfolio of properties in attractive locations that provide significant available high structural capacity and ground space.
These sites come to us with the lowest initial tenancy of any major U.S.
tower deal that we're aware of.
This combination bodes well for solid leasing growth over a long period of time.
Moreover 2/3 of these sites have no competing structure within a half mile highlighting the franchise value of these locations.
Our U.S.
tower operation is off to a fast start on the integration of the Verizon portfolio.
All of the 11 448 properties are already in our cloud-based Site Locator app and we're already aggressively marketing these assets to our tenant base.
In closing we believe that we are squarely in the middle of an extensive long-term cycle of technological innovation in the U.S.
telecom industry.
We've seen the transition from landlines to basic cell phones to 3G smartphones now to 4G connected devices.
We are all today using mobile applications that were unavailable just five years ago and our expectations is that the breakneck speed of mobile technology innovation and development especially regarding the entertainment industry will continue well into the future.
Consequently we believe that when it comes to the ongoing growth of our U.S.
leasing business we have plenty of runway remaining in front of us.
Steve could you now please open the line for questions? Thanks.
Absolutely.
And our first question comes from the line of Batya Levi with UBS.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you.
I wanted to see if you could give a little bit more color on the initial demand that you're seeing for the Verizon towers and the revenue and gross margin contribution was slightly lower than what we'd expected for three-quarters of the year.
Is that a timing issue? And some sort of color on all the puts and takes in the outlook and if you could just talk about what the outperformance in the core business that you're seeing if you could quantify that that would be great.
Thank you.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Batya I'm not quite sure where to start; a fair amount of questions there.
On the Verizon one Jim and I will kind of tag team this a little bit.
On the Verizon transaction for the nine months there is some timing largely due to the escalations that on a full-year basis you would see versus what we would expect to see now in 2016 given the fact that we are picking all of these assets in late March.
Other than that lease-up tenancy I mean is all very consistent with what we've said before.
And as Jim said I think it will just be a major contributor to our business going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Our U.S.
sales team is already seeing applications we're processing them.
There is a lot of pent-up demand we think on these towers.
And we've had them in our possession for less or about a month I guess so far.
So the pipeline's started it's running and as I said we are already fully loaded into our cloud-based site application system and ready to provide these to customers on a fast track.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> So then what was the second or third question? The second question I guess just looking at all the puts and takes and the increase in the guidance you mentioned that you're seeing outperformance in the core business.
So if we can just look at it now versus three months ago can you provide a little bit of color on maybe a magnitude of how much more core outperformance you're seeing? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Well I think what I said before is that overall on a consolidated basis we're taking up our core organic up to around 8%.
It was slightly below that.
I mean what we've seen coming out of the gate are strong volumes in our international markets; Brazil Colombia some of those markets are continually seeing strong demand.
As I mentioned on the last call back-billing is something that we track kind of throughout the year because we don't really have a sense out of the gate how that's going to pan out for the year.
So we would expect some increase in our back-billing revenue for the year.
And in the U.S.
it's right where we thought it was going to be; however we're seeing application volumes significantly higher than where they were at the end of third and fourth quarter of last year.
So we're expecting good solid growth from that as I mentioned before as we originally expected largely in the second half of the year.
So all told we're seeing growth really up in all of our markets.
On the expense side we continue to hone in on our cost controls and expenses and so that's also in our EBITDA outperformance.
That is driving about $10 million of that outperformance.
So I think it is a really strong start to the year and as I mentioned coupling it with the Verizon sites and the sites we just closed yesterday with TIM and expect to close with Airtel next month and then following on with the other tranche of the TIM sites we're able to raise our overall guidance.
Great.
Thank you.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Hey Ric.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Inc.</span></strong> First question you probably know it's coming with PCIA small cells were all the buzz down there.
And then this morning Crown Castle puts $1 billion into buying 10 000 more fiber miles.
Talk to us a little bit about Jim you mentioned the big demand.
We see that coming as well.
But small cells versus macro; just help us understand your thoughts on that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ric we continually analyze all the telecom asset classes that are available in the industry.
So that could start with say dark fiber to small cell nodes of which we have 17 000 by the way in our own network moving on to macro towers.
And all of our analytics and all of our experience in the field and in performance metrics has demonstrated to us continuously that the macro tower is the best performing asset class of all the telecom assets.
We're really high conviction on that and it's based again on regression analysis we've done on our own assets plus how we can model current assets that are up for sale and then track those over time.
So we're quite convinced that the macro tower is the place to focus and the place to be.
We do have land generators and small cells in our own portfolio.
We like the diversification and the customer service that we provide through that.
But we're going to focus and continue to focus on the best performing asset class which is macro towers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And speaking of macro towers your balance sheet's set up maybe for some more M&amp;A pipeline work as you look out there maybe some in the U.S.
but internationally update us on as far as what regions are interesting and where we might see you guys plant a flag or expand presence in the future.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Ric it's Jim again.
The U.S.
is always interesting and there is a medium-sized carrier portfolio still not traded and numerous small carrier and small third-party tower companies.
So we'll always keep our eyes open in interest there.
Our overall strategy inclusive of the U.S.
is to extend our leadership position in our major markets.
So Mexico I think we're in quite good shape there; Brazil again quite good shape but with about 18 000 pro forma towers.
But there are a couple of places that we would like to expand our presence further such as South Africa such as India and we'll be opportunistic about those and apply the discipline process we've always applied when and if something comes available.
So that's going to be the main focus areas for us.
Inc.</span></strong> And India sounds like it is getting a little better from where it was a couple of years ago.
Is that your sense? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well our India business based on again our disciplined investments that we've made has always performed in line for us as far as a part of our portfolio.
And now the environment is improving.
Spectrum policy is moving towards a very rational endgame allowing the major operators in India to have enough spectrum to go ahead and deploy advanced data services like we've just talked about in the remarks in India so that's a plus.
And we're seeing a pickup in business there especially in build-to-suit towers as well as in co-locations in India.
So I do think we're at the beginning of an upward cycle in the India market for tower leasing.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yes we're expecting Ric a double digit core organic growth in the market.
In the first quarter I think we put out more tenancies in the first quarter than we have in any other quarter since we've been there.
So yes I think the teams there are really – our team there is really very excited about what is going on in the market and we're expecting a really terrific year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Barden with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks a lot.
I wanted to go back to the Verizon question.
It's probably no surprise to you guys that to the extent that there are controversies one of the bigger controversies is American Tower's claim that the Verizon portfolio will be growing at a premium to the core domestic portfolio in a roughly a year's time and I was wondering if you could kind of go back to those claims and kind of if I'm characterizing them correctly and kind of map out the sources behind where you see that growth coming from maybe Jim irrespective of kind of the larger picture issues that you mentioned.
And then second on the international side if I understand it correctly I think that the international business has mostly if not entirely inflation-based escalators.
If I looked at your 10% expectation for core growth which now excludes the pass-throughs and subtracted inflation what kind of volume growth would I be looking at in the international portfolio today? Thanks a lot.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Hey David.
On the Verizon one as we've said over the 10-year period we are expecting to add a full tenants worth of revenue over that 10-year period.
I mean I think as Jim laid out why do we feel comfortable as to that assumption? It's the fact that there is very little overlap; there's very few competitive sites nearby and the fact that the tenancy on the existing towers is at 1.4 and the fact that these sites have not been marketed candidly to any of the other carriers; particularly not just be the big cellular carriers but all of the other local users local customers that we can potentially tap into in those local markets.
So for this particular year from a growth perspective we are integrating them now.
As Jim said we've put them all now out on our ON AIR app and we are excited about the types of demand and the backlogs that we're seeing.
So we are very very excited about the growth that we would expect and I think given the tenancy and given the location and the fact that they have it marketed we would expect in short order that the core organic growth rates on these assets should exceed that of our existing portfolio.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So David as I mentioned we've managed these sites for a month so far.
So for a first full year we've got 11 months to go in the first full year.
And so the pipeline's already started up.
Where are these applications going to come from? Maybe I'll step through the U.S.
operators and importantly our industry (40:53) suggest that there's sources for new business here.
Verizon first of all is the most active mobile operator we have in our U.S.
marketplace today as far as tower leasing.
And of course it's their towers and they have some rights there.
But let's put that in perspective for a second.
Of the 40 000 towers we have in the U.S.
about 11 500 of them are these Verizon transacted towers leaving 28 500 other towers that they have plenty of opportunity to go on.
So that's in the portfolio we're talking about but I just want to put it in perspective.
The three-quarters of our U.S.
tower portfolio is wide open to additional applications for both amendments and co-locations by Verizon.
So stepping down to the second most active carrier that we see in our first quarter was T-Mobile.
T-Mobile is doing a terrific job of adding some net subscribers and therefore needing to build up their network to serve those subscribers.
They're deploying their 700 MHz spectrum and they're also upgrading the MetroPCS sites to their sort of overall standards so that they can deliver great service to these new customers that they're bringing on board.
And then third it's still AT&amp;T and AT&amp;T for us first of all has a really nice base of growth which is our holistic agreement.
And so with AT&amp;T while every carrier will have variations in its spend and deployment pattern over quarter-to-quarter over a period of years we have smoothed out much of that pattern in the case of AT&amp;T with our holistic agreement.
And so we've got nice growth from them all through this year even though their spend rates may be in a variable position versus last year.
And we're seeing good business from them.
Now the holistic agreement does not apply to the Verizon sites.
And so as AT&amp;T ramps up back into more normalized deployment rate and spend rate we're going to be extremely well-positioned with those Verizon sites to capture that on a retail basis if you will.
And then Sprint again not as active as the other three but again also pent-up demand we think to work on their network as the next few quarters play out although we're not seeing the applications quite yet we expect to see some more from Sprint as we go forward.
And then lastly I mentioned the industry verticals.
These are the rural carriers the ISPs government agencies industries that we serve such as the oil and gas industry and others that will welcome a smooth and easy application process to get on these (43:49).
So again we got 11 months to run our first full year and those are the sources that I feel will add to the demand for the Verizon towers.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> And David just to your last question in terms of the international growth we expect the escalations to be in the 4.5% range and as I mentioned the total core organic growth in that 10% range; so kind of that 1.5 percentage kind of churn.
You're looking at new business growth – real new business on those sites being in kind of that 7% to 8% range; so a very strong growth across the portfolio.
Great.
Okay I really appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
And thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Over the last year you've seen your AFFO multiple compress by 2 turns to 3 turns.
Obviously you've got a lot of pending acquisitions and recently completed acquisitions which probably take up a lot of your management time.
At what point do you consider a share repurchase? It looks like you've got a fair amount of capacity coming up and you haven't been really aggressive with the buyback in quite some time.
But let's say 16 times multiple given borrowing costs today seems like could be very very accretive to start a repurchase here.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Kevin our fundamental strategy for this company is to build the world's leading real estate business serving the mobile internet industry around the world probably would take a 20-year or 30-year timeframe to do that.
And as we pursue that goal we also have the objective of delivering sort of mid-teens AFFO per share growth over a very long period of time on what we call a core basis meaning after the effects of currency translation in straight-line.
We're on that path.
And therefore we're going to continue to invest in the business when the returns make sense.
And right now the returns make sense for us.
And our batting order so to speak of how we deploy our cash has been stable all the way through this 20-year to 30-year strategic timeframe which is now firstly with the re-dividend that will be first in the order.
But it's always been building towers acquiring towers or lease rights and then with the remaining cash if we can't find the investment opportunities we will buy back stock.
So we don't time it based on interest rates or multiples or any other thing.
We're running the business for a multi-decade strategy to deliver that mid-teen AFFO per share growth and we think over the long run that's going to justify a really fair equity price and equity price appreciation over time for our shareholders.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> And Kevin I might just add even if so based on that if you take a look at the portfolios that we have acquired over the last 10 years and you look at the vintage those assets that we acquired even before 2005 we're generating 25% returns and 2005 to 2010 just under that at 23% returns.
So it's not our notion to as Jim said to hoard cash I mean to the extent that those opportunities don't exist and we don't see them.
And we as you know are very disciplined investment committee process within the business.
We will return cash back to shareholders in addition to the dividend that we pay.
And we had done that about two years ago.
But the assets that we've acquired over the last two years were very compelling and we would expect significant returns coming from those.
And so until we get our balance sheet back to where we think it's stable which is at that south of 5 times we're going to continue to repay that debt and again provide that footing for us going forward.
It's not to preclude us from looking at opportunities going forward.
We will do so and do so on a kind of a neutral leverage type of a way.
And if those opportunities don't exist when we get down to those kinds of levels yes we would then look to open back up the buyback program that the board has authorized us to do.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much and good morning folks.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks so much for providing the color with respect to sort of the overall technology evolution and what that's doing for densification and just sort of a follow-up question to the commentary is if you're starting to think that carrier aggregation from a carrier perspective is necessary in order to support ongoing bandwidth demand and that requires densification why is small cells not enough to provide that even from just sort of a network planning or a technology perspective? Is it cost prohibitive versus a macro cell investment? Just trying to understand sort of the dynamics there as to why that type of migration from a technology perspective should continue to support the macro cell investment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Amir it's Jim.
It's technology and economically prohibitive to serve the U.S.
population widely with small cells for this purpose.
And the technical reasons are again that most of the U.S.
population lives in places with population densities of less than 5 000 people per square mile.
And you need about 10 000 people per square mile in our view to make a small cell deployment even in conjunction with an overarching macro cell deployment on top of it economically and technically feasible right? And so just to go down a couple of the factors.
On the technology piece the handoff requirement from places where our towers serve people which are often around highways and other transportation corridors suburban or rural you've got people traveling 30 miles an hour to 60 miles an hour.
You can't really have sufficient handoff capability over a very large stretch of multi-mile roadway to economically provide those handoffs.
Secondly your signal needs to cover more ground and has to be elevated and therefore it kind of obviates the architecture of small cells when you get into the suburban and rural environment.
And again to put that all in context the notion of where our towers are and where small cells make sense is really important.
So in areas of 10 000 people per square mile or above we've only got about 0.5% of our tower base in those areas.
If you go to 5 000 people or above we've only got about 5% total of our towers in those places.
So our towers serve people in suburbs rural areas and transportation corridors where again technically and economically the small cells don't make sense.
I'll give you a couple of points on the economics.
You've got to have a fiber connection to every small cell so if you're going to try to cover the roadway from Hopkinton Massachusetts where the marathon starts all the way to Boylston Street you need hundreds and hundreds of small cells to do that.
You'd need 26 miles of fiber just to do one road.
And that's one of many many roads that go from west to east in our area.
It just is an economically infeasible opportunity.
And you also need by the say siting costs.
Wherever you put your small cell you usually have to pay somebody; whether it is the town the utility have a revenue share; the economics just again don't make sense once you get outside in our view of about 10 000 people per square mile.
So in dense urban absolutely small cells are going to happen.
Their growth rates are going to be high because small cells are a very small proportion of the gigabit per month delivery of the network today.
And so it's going to grow faster and we've shown and said that in some of our previous technology briefings.
But the bulk of the spending and the bulk of the traffic is still in our view for years to come going to be carried by the macro site because that's where most of the people are.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
And then a quick follow-up if I may.
If we look at the U.S.
carrier market there seems to be a pretty big disparity between the number of cell sites between the different carriers.
Given what you're thinking in terms of overall demand curve do you expect that gap to sort of tighten here? I mean you'd mentioned T-Mobile has obviously taken a bit more of a proactive stance in terms of its network investment in terms of supporting some of its growth.
I think there's a lot of questions in terms of what Sprint is going to do here.
But would love to hear sort of your color and sort of those number of sites and the trajectory at which you expect those to improve I guess? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Amir technically and theoretically the site count should converge over time.
We're not sure what the rate and pace of that will be.
But if you look at the technical factors which are the spectrum profiles of each of the four carriers the territories that they're trying to ultimately cover which will be probably all 320 million pops by the end of the decade and the gigabits per month that they're going to be competitively offering which is by again the end of the decade probably 3 to 5 gigabits per 4G subscriber per month engineers can do the math to figure out what the density needs to be and it should converge over time.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much for the incremental color Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
And thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you very much.
One country you haven't talked about up to now is Mexico.
I know Tom you know it very well.
There's a lot going on down there with AT&amp;T buying Nextel and Iusacell committing to an aggressive rollout of LTE and AMX spinning off the Telesites business.
So talk to us about the opportunities there the consolidation of those portfolios and how we should think about that over the next couple of years? Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yes hey Simon.
Yes we spent some time together I think in that market.
Absolutely.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> No.
Well a couple of things; first of all AT&amp;T moving into the market we think very much of a positive for us.
I think that AT&amp;T right now having closed the Iusacell transaction and I believe just about ready to move on the other transaction with NAI are in the midst of developing their own plans of what that build out would be.
And I would expect that they would want to have the same type of customer experience in Mexico that they have in the United States.
So we're very hopeful that we'll be seeing some of that build and some of that activity probably in the latter half of the year.
With regards to what América Móvil is doing in terms of the split out of their sites I think time will tell.
In terms of the impact in the marketplace in terms of are they going to be aggressively marketing those sites or not will they ultimately be putting those sites up for sale or not? It's very difficult to tell at this point in time but we think that overall Simon that it's going to open up the entire market and it will compel the competition in the market to more aggressively spend in the market.
As I've said over the last year or so given all the activity that's going on in the market relative to América Móvil and now AT&amp;T the market for us has been relatively sleepy from a core organic growth rate.
It's been below 10% for us whereas the prior couple of years before that the core organic growth rate was quite extensive.
So I think that there has been under-spend in that market over the last 24 months and I think once some of these issues get put to bed I'm hopeful that we'll start to see some really solid organic growth rate over the next 18 months to 24 months.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes and to put that in context Simon over the medium-term to long-term our expectation is in the U.S.
that by the end of this decade by sort of 2019 that most people in the United States could be as upwards of 90% will have a 4G phone in their pocket and they're going to be using 3 gigabits a month to 5 gigabits a month of data.
That's kind of our core technical assumption in the U.S.
and that drives our long-term projection from the business here.
In Mexico the entry of AT&amp;T we believe is going to accelerate that pattern in Mexico.
So there's essentially very limited or no 4G service in the Mexican market today.
Our expectation is that AT&amp;T will prompt that technology addition into the market.
And now you'll have 100 million people in Mexico that will be on a track whether it's by the end of this decade or by the middle of the next decade to have most of its population on 4G at 3 gigabits a month to 5 gigabits a month service.
And so we see this as a real catalyst for Mexico for the next five-year to 10-year period that AT&amp;T is going to bring its level of quality its level of consumer delivery of gigabits a month or close to that level at least from the U.S.
to Mexico.
Do you think you might sign sort of a master lease agreement with them over – once they've sort of got ready here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our history in the U.S.
with AT&amp;T is that we've since I've been here had a master lease agreement with them.
And so just from a historical perspective I would expect that we'll have a large comprehensive agreement of some sort and some structure with AT&amp;T to partner with them in Mexico as we partnered with them here.
And by the way this fits into our global strategy to serve the world's leading mobile operators in multiple markets.
And it just happens to be the first time that one of our U.S.
core customers has trekked outside of this country.
But even T-Mobile which is majority owned in the U.S.
by Deutsche Telekom is a customer of ours in Europe as well.
So this is going to continue to evolve I think and the AT&amp;T entry into Mexico's a great example of our theory.
Great.
Thank you.
And thank you.
Our last question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a follow-up and a question if I could; just following up on the last question are there examples that you could share with us where you have a relationship with a carrier in one market and you can say with some sort of quantification of what the benefit was for co-location in another market were because you had this existing relationship? You got more share or more volume or better pricing or terms than maybe what you would have had otherwise? And then the second question just curious if there's an update that you can help us with on the public safety front? Is there anything that you're seeing there that your investors should be aware of? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mike I'll just choose one of our many examples of cross-connection of our global customer base between markets.
And that would be Bharti Airtel which we serve in India as a tenant.
We don't have any asset deals with them in India at this time.
But we also find them as our largest new business customer last quarter in Uganda as an example.
And also one of our major customers in Ghana and in Nigeria we do have an asset transaction that we'll be closing in the month of May of size 4 800 towers in Nigeria.
So (60:49) customer where we have a multi-continental collaboration with both on the leasing side and the asset side which we hope to expand over the coming years.
And then as far as the public safety network in the U.S.
it's still we perceive in the planning stages where our teams are involved with people that are managing that for the U.S.
Government.
And hopefully we'll see some real deployments of some sort in the 2016 timeframe but still unclear as to the scale scope and design of all of that.
So of course it's not anywhere in our guidance or even in our five-year plan yet.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Presenters I turn the call back to you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Hey great.
Well again thank you very much for all of your attention.
If you have any other questions please feel free to give Leah or myself a call.
Again we had I think a great start to the year.
Hopefully you think that as well.
And we look forward to seeing you in the future.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and I'll be a conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the American Tower Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Leah Stearns Senior Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Treasurer and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining American Tower's second quarter earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows: first Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the second quarter as well as our full-year outlook for 2015; and then Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will discuss the organic growth and returns being generated by our key international markets and how our diversified portfolio of assets positions us to drive compelling returns for shareholders well into the future.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risk and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include: those regarding our 2015 outlook and future operating performance; our expectations regarding our future growth industry trends anticipated contributions of recently-closed acquisitions; and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's earnings press release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and in our other filings we make with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to Slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our second quarter 2015 results.
During the quarter our Rental &amp; Management grew 14.8% from the second quarter of 2014 to over $1.15 billion.
As we previewed for you during our first quarter earnings call we expected domestic revenue growth in the second quarter to be impacted unfavorably by the timing of revenue recognition of our customer decommissioning agreement.
This did in fact occur and the $5 million decline in decommissioning revenue recorded in the second quarter versus the prior year period brought down our consolidated organic core growth by approximately 70 basis points and our domestic organic core growth by about 100 basis points.
During the second quarter our adjusted EBITDA grew 11.7% to approximately $762 million and adjusted funds from operations increased 13.3% to approximately $537 million.
During the quarter net income attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders declined by approximately $100 million to about $129 million or $0.31 per basic and $0.30 per diluted common share.
The contributing factors to the year-over-year decline in net income were: the losses we incurred on the early retirement of certain long-term debt obligations which we refinanced during the quarter; an increase in our depreciation expense from the addition of about 25 000 new assets we acquired or built over the last year; and the preferred dividends relating to recently-issued mandatory convertible preferred stock.
Adjusting for the one-time impact of the loss on retirement of long-term obligations net income per common and diluted share would've been approximately $0.48 for the quarter.
Subsequent to the end of the second quarter we completed the acquisition of approximately 4 700 sites from Airtel in Nigeria for approximately $1.09 billion including VAT.
Approximately $736 million of the consideration was paid in July and we expect that the remainder will be paid to Airtel on or before January 15 2016.
In addition we've completed all of the necessary steps to file a tax election pursuant to which the GTP REIT for Federal and state income tax purposes will no longer operate as a separate REIT.
You may recall that we highlighted this as an opportunity when we announced the transaction nearly two years ago.
And we are pleased to be in a position to complete this important tax planning process.
As a result we expect to incur approximately $92 million in one-time costs in the second half of the year which will lead to several long-term financial and operational benefits for American Tower.
These benefits include: more efficient cash management; increased cash flow potential allowing us greater flexibility to fund operations in future growth; enhancement of customer relationships through contract simplification and improved business alignment in addition to eliminating the complication of costs and risks associated with managing a subsidiary REIT.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss the results in more detail.
Thanks Leah.
Good morning everyone.
As you can see we had a solid second quarter exceeding our earlier expectations for growth in revenue margins and AFFO across the business.
We are progressing well with the integration of the nearly 11 500 Verizon towers we added in the first quarter and are pleased with their performance so far.
We acquired about 4 200 sites in Brazil from Telecom Italia at the end of April and most recently added around 4 700 towers in Nigeria from Airtel on July 1.
We expect to acquire the remaining 2 300 or so sites in Brazil from TIM and up to an additional 200 sites in Nigeria from Airtel over the next 12 months or so.
Our strategy of pursuing international investments to strengthen and extend our consolidated growth rate is delivering results and we are pleased with the benefits we are experiencing due to the scale we have added to our international business.
We believe these international investments will continue to help drive returns significantly above those of our U.S.
business.
If you'll please turn to Side 6 our consolidated Rental &amp; Management revenue in the quarter increased by nearly 15% to approximately $1.2 billion.
On a core basis our total Rental &amp; Management revenue growth was over 23%.
And of this core growth over 7% was organic or about 8% excluding our U.S.
decommissioning revenues.
The balance of our core growth or 16% (7:20) was attributable to properties we've added since the beginning of last year including more than 12 000 in each of our domestic and international segments.
Turning to Slide 7 our Domestic Rental &amp; Management segment generated core growth in revenue of about 21% during the second quarter with organic core growth in revenue of 5.8% or nearly 7% excluding our U.S.
decommissioning revenues.
T-Mobile and Verizon led the way in terms of both new leases and amendments in Q2 and continued to comprise the bulk of our new business pipeline.
As expected we saw sequential improvement in signed new business trends during the quarter with signed new business increasing over 50% from Q1.
Overall our U.S.
business continues to deliver good performance with organic growth for the year expected to be right around the midpoint of our long-term target range.
Our new Verizon sites are also delivering solid results and are performing in line with our expectations.
Domestic Rental &amp; Management gross margin increased by about 16% on both a reported and core basis to $621 million and reflected a 61% revenue conversion rate.
Excluding the Verizon sites this conversion rate would have been approximately 90%.
We constructed 12 towers in the quarter and purchased or extended the remaining term on nearly 500 ground leases with extensions averaging about 29 years.
Including the new Verizon sites around 62% of the land under our U.S.
towers is now either owned or controlled for more than 20 years.
And we are targeting to achieve 80% in the next five years.
We also enhanced our domestic small cell offering and have nearly 300 domestic indoor DAS systems online.
On a year-over-year basis we have grown this portfolio nearly 11% adding 32 new systems since the second quarter of last year.
We are pleased with the performance of these systems and have been able to attain average indoor DAS tenancies of about 2.2 with an NOI yield of nearly 16%.
DAS in combination with our Managed Rooftop business represents about 6% of our U.S.
revenues and had revenue growth of over 25% in the quarter.
Our U.S.
segment including towers and managed networks generated reported and core Domestic Rental &amp; Management operating profit growth of nearly 17%.
This reflects strong revenue growth our continuing focus on property-level cost controls and SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue of around 4%.
We're also managing the integration of the Verizon portfolio efficiently and have added less SG&amp;A to-date as compared to the levels we initially contemplated for the transaction.
Moving on to Slide 8 our International Rental &amp; Management segment had a solid quarter with core growth of about 28% and organic core growth in revenue of nearly 12%.
Reported revenue growth was negatively impacted by foreign currency translation effects of about $80 million from the prior-year period.
We saw strong demand for sites across our portfolio with markets such as India Brazil and Mexico all generating double-digit growth in signed new business over the prior-year period.
Large investment-grade tenants like Airtel Vodafone and Telefónica continue to generate the majority of our international revenues and organic new business growth.
In Mexico for example AT&amp;T has been our top new business customer so far this year.
And in Latin America as a whole AT&amp;T and Telefónica now comprise nearly 50% of our revenues.
We also continue to invest in our existing markets through new tower construction and built more than 900 new towers across our international footprint in Q2.
In India we built over 600 sites during the quarter for operators such as Bharti Airtel and Vodafone.
We built over 150 sites in Brazil to support the needs of Vivo and TIM and are continuing to see new build activity ramp significantly in that market.
We built an additional 61 towers in Ghana and Uganda as well during the quarter with MTN as our anchor tenant.
Simultaneously we are investing in small cells not only in the U.S.
but also in our international markets where we think the indoor opportunity may even be greater.
In fact in just the last year we have grown our international indoor DAS asset base more than 50% and we now have over 125 systems installed.
Our international indoor DAS portfolio is performing well and is already delivering an NOI yield comparable to that of the U.S.
indoor DAS portfolio.
We continue to view indoor DAS as a good complement to our core global macro tower business and remain focused on deploying capital to multi-tenant small cell solutions in all of our markets where it makes financial sense.
International Rental &amp; Management gross margin in the quarter grew nearly 5% to about $222 million while core growth in gross margin was around 33%.
Our reported International Rental &amp; Management segment's operating profit grew more than 8% to $192 million and the operating profit margin improved about 340 basis points over the second quarter of last year to nearly 55%.
Excluding pass-through revenue this segment's operating margin grew to 75% which is up from 70% generated Q2 of last year.
Our core growth in international operating profit was 40% for the quarter.
Turning to Slide 9 on a consolidated basis reported adjusted EBITDA growth in the quarter was 11.7% with core growth of over 21%.
And our adjusted EBITDA margin was about 65%.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was about 71% and the adjusted EBITDA conversion ratio was about 57%.
This was impacted by both the timing of the decommissioning revenue in the U.S.
and the addition of the Verizon and TIM Brazil assets to the base.
Excluding these impacts our adjusted EBITDA conversion ratio would've been around 90% due to our legacy site revenue outperformance and solid expense management during the quarter.
Cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue in the quarter was under 8%.
And for the full year we expect our cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be around 8.5% as we absorb the costs associated with the launch of our newest market in Nigeria.
Longer-term we would expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues to decline as we drive organic growth across the portfolio.
Our strong adjusted EBITDA performance resulted in solid growth in AFFO which increased over 13% to $537 million or $1.26 per share.
Core AFFO growth was over 25% and our adjusted EBITDA to AFFO conversion ratio during the quarter was just under 80%.
Moving on to Slide 10 given the performance of the business we are raising our full-year outlook for Rental &amp; Management revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
Our new outlook does not include the 2 300 sites from TIM in Brazil or the 200 towers from Airtel in Nigeria yet to be closed.
We now expect 2015 Rental &amp; Management segment revenue of about $4.67 billion at the midpoint.
The increase is driven by about $110 million in additional rental revenue from Airtel Nigeria assets including about $30 million in pass-through revenue as well as about $10 million of legacy international outperformance.
This growth is being partially offset by around $15 million of negative foreign currency translation effects relative to our prior outlook and a reduction of approximately $15 million in U.S.
non-cash straight-line revenue recognition.
For the year we now expect core growth in consolidated Rental &amp; Management segment revenue of around 23% which includes organic core growth expectations of about 7% and nearly 10.5% for our Domestic and International segments respectively.
On a consolidated basis we expect 2015 organic core growth in revenue to be around 8%.
In addition we're increasing our outlook for adjusted EBITDA by $30 million at the midpoint which primarily reflects the new assets we have added to our portfolio complemented by International organic revenue outperformance and solid cost controls globally of about $22 million.
This is partially offset by the U.S.
straight-line revenue reduction I just mentioned and about $7 million in unfavorable FX translation effects relative to our prior outlook.
We now expect core growth in adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be over 21%.
Turning to Slide 11 we are also raising our full year AFFO outlook at the midpoint by $60 million.
This is being driven by about $30 million in incremental cash EBITDA from the Airtel Nigeria assets and around $17 million in incremental cash EBITDA from legacy sites.
In addition we now expect net cash interest expense and cash taxes collectively to be $15 million lower than our prior outlook.
And this is being partially offset by a few million dollars in negative foreign currency translation effects versus our prior AFFO outlook.
Our AFFO growth is expected to be about 17% for the year or about 25% on a core basis.
As a result our AFFO per share growth is forecasted to be over 10% or nearly 18% on a core basis inclusive of the impact of our financing transactions completed during the year.
Consequently we now expect to reach $5 per share in AFFO at the midpoint.
Moving on to Slide 12 we remain committed to our capital deployment strategy which we believe will support our business in generating consistent robust growth in a variety of business and economic cycles.
We are focused on simultaneously funding growth returning cash to our stockholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
So far this year we've invested nearly $7 billion through our M&amp;A program declared about $400 million in common and mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends and deployed over $300 million in CapEx.
We believe that the combination of our growth in AFFO per share and our growing dividends will create meaningful value for our stockholders.
This includes expected annual growth in our redistribution of at least 20% which is actually averaged around 30% over the last 12 months.
Our payout ratio as a percent of AFFO is currently over 30% and is expected to grow to over 40% within the next few years due to anticipated growth in our taxable income and the reduction of our net operating losses.
We also seek to maintain a substantial base of liquidity and pro forma for the Airtel Nigeria acquisition purchase price at nearly $2 billion in cash and borrowing capacity under our revolvers.
From a capital markets perspective our focus for the remainder of the year will be to opportunistically extend duration and ladder out our maturities which today have an average remaining term of around five and a half years with an average interest cost of about 3.5%.
We took steps toward achieving this in the second quarter by refinancing securitized notes assumed through our acquisition of GTP in 2013 and by issuing senior notes to term out revolver borrowings.
Secure debt now composes around 20% of our total debt and we expect to end 2015 with net leverage in the mid-five times range and anticipate reaching five times leverage or below by the end of 2016.
Longer-term our target leverage range continues to be between three and five times net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
This solid financial platform will continue to give us the flexibility to invest in the most compelling global multi-tenant commercial real estate opportunities well into the future.
Turning to Slide 13 and in summary we started 2015 with a solid first half and believe we are well-positioned to leverage our global asset base to drive strong growth throughout the rest of 2015.
We are again raising our 2015 outlook for Rental &amp; Management revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO and similar to last year expect core growth in all three metrics to be above our long-term targets all over 20%.
By year-end we anticipate having nearly 100 000 sites worldwide with a solid balance sheet ample liquidity and manageable leverage in the mid-five times range.
Trends across our global footprint particularly in our international markets continue to be favorable.
Mobile voice and data usage is increasing rapidly.
Advanced handsets are becoming more affordable for more and more people and carriers are monetizing incremental usage and generating solid returns.
Our disciplined capital allocation process has positioned us to benefit from these trends on a global basis.
And we expect to utilize our industry-leading portfolio and financial position to drive compelling returns for our stockholders for many years to come.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Jim for some closing remarks before we take some Q&amp;A.
Jim? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
As demonstrated by those second quarter results and updated outlook both our Domestic and International segments continue to perform well.
This performance is a result of the combination of accelerating data demand across our markets and the scale diversification and quality of our global tower and small cell Distributed Antenna System portfolios.
As Tom mentioned we augmented our U.S.
operations significantly with the addition of the Verizon tower assets earlier this year.
I participated in some of the initial site inspections myself and have been in close touch with our U.S.
team.
And the team has the integration of the Verizon portfolio solidly on track and the new business pipeline on the towers is shaping up nicely.
Consequently our experience to-date with the Verizon towers is confirming our valuation assumptions on the attractiveness of those site's locations pent-up demand for both co-location and amendment activity and the quality of those assets.
We expect that the addition of the Verizon portfolio will further strengthen our domestic growth profile and operational performance for many years to come.
Consistent with my prepared remarks in past years' second quarter calls my focus this morning will be on our International segment where we're seeing outperformance relative to our initial projections for the year.
After a very brief recap of our international investment philosophy I'll discuss the key current and future trends in our largest international markets and then review our extensive track record of generating outsized growth and return on investment internationally while discussing our confidence in being able to replicate this performance on our newly-acquired assets as well.
This has been a long journey.
Over the last 15 years we've carefully selected a series of markets interconnected through a strong core of common multinational customers solid underpinning of rule of law and property rights and the long-term wireless industry growth potential.
For markets where 4G is being deployed like the U.S.
and Germany to markets where additional voice networks are still being built out such as India we're positioned to benefit from carrier investments in both the short and the long-term.
In developing and emerging markets this growth will be supported by several key factors.
First wireless carriers in these markets continue to generate healthy margins and return on investment despite ARPU's per average revenue per user per month that appear to be low on the surface.
For example in India where per SIM ARPU is around $3 average wireless carrier EBITDA margins are still over 30%.
This is attributable to the typical customer behavior in that country where individuals utilize multiple SIM cards to power their devices often from different wireless carriers.
Moreover leading mobile operators in markets such as India also take full advantage of low-cost inputs such as labor and modest if any handset subsidies.
Similarly in Brazil where the ARPU is $8 mobile operator EBITDA margins are also above 30%.
This is especially notable given that in the U.S.
where ARPU's are in the $50 range carrier EBITDA margins are similar to these much lower ARPU markets.
As a result we continue to believe that the mobile network operators across our served markets have the financial capacity to make meaningful investments in their network resulting in incremental equipment on our towers and ongoing revenue growth opportunities for us.
Simultaneously the middle class in these markets along with this buying power is growing substantially while importantly smartphone prices as Tom said are coming down.
There are now a number of smartphones available internationally in the $100 range which have about 70% to 80% of the functionality of a device that would sell for $700 or $800 in the United States.
With increasing incomes more and more people are now able to afford one of these advanced devices while also being able to pay more for data plans.
As historical analyses have shown getting more advanced devices in the hands of consumers' leads to more usage on wireless networks.
In turn as the carriers benefit from increasing ARPUs from those smartphone users they're able to redeploy that cash into investments to further support network quality.
India is a prime example of a market where we believe there will be a very long runway of wireless network investment accompanied by strong organic growth for our 14 000 site portfolio there.
With smartphone penetration at just 10% a population of over 1.2 billion people and minimal access to wireline cable fiber or satellite-based alternatives mobile is poised to be the primary method of communication and entertainment for the future.
Today 85% to 90% of Indian mobile phone users are still on 2G.
And there remains a significant portion of the rural population with no access at all.
We're working with public and private sector partners in India to develop innovative concepts like the Digital Town Square with a tower as the centerpiece.
The Digital Town Square concept brings together electrical power Internet connectivity site security educational kiosks connected to the Internet and mobile service via our customers to support the Indian Government's Digital India plan.
We believe this can not only accelerate bringing mobile voice and Internet service to under-served rural populations but it'll also provide us at American Tower with some great opportunities for incremental tower build investments which have historically generated our highest return on invested capital.
Brazil is another market where we expect to generate very strong growth in both the short and long-term.
Clustered around key population centers like São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro our more than 16 000 Brazilian sites provide our tenants with the real estate they need to respond to rapidly-growing usage across their networks.
With over 4 000 SIM cards per cell site or about double that of the United States Brazilian networks are extremely congested and increasing mobile data usage is compounding the issue.
As smartphone prices continue to drop penetration climbs.
And today it stands over 35% as compared to under 10% of smartphone penetration just five years ago in Brazil.
Furthermore industry projections call for mobile data usage to grow approximately eightfold in Brazil over the next five years prompting the leading mobile operators in that country to recommit significant network investment.
These include the local Telefónica unit Vivo and Telecom Italia Mobile or TIM from whom we recently acquired about 4 200 sites in April.
The story is similar throughout the other markets within our international footprint.
In Mexico AT&amp;T's recently-announced $3 billion investment and América Móvil's recently announced $6 billion investment should both be excellent opportunities for us given our portfolio position there.
In South Africa Vodafone Telkom and Cell C are all actively rolling out and augmenting their 3G networks as the population continues to increasingly consume mobile data in that country.
And in markets like Nigeria and Ghana both 2G and 3G roll-outs are happening concurrently.
To be in a position to benefit from these types of trends we have built a diversified international business with a long track record of generating compelling returns.
It's important to hear some numbers (29:47) some real facts so let's run through a few specific examples.
I'll start in Brazil where over the last three years organic core revenue growth has averaged more than 12% or 400 basis points or so higher than the U.S.
equivalent.
Since our entry into the market in the year 2000 we have focused on building and acquiring high-quality towers in prime locations.
This is evidenced by our ability to drive leasing activity.
On Brazilian sites that we've constructed or acquired between the year 2000 and 2005 for example we have averaged nearly three tenants and a local currency NOI yield approaching 50% or well over 30% on a dollar basis taken into account changes in foreign currency.
For the 2005 to 2010 vintage in Brazil we have nearly two tenants per tower and an average local currency NOI yield of almost 30% and a U.S.
dollar yield of more than 20%.
So as you can see with the performance of our longest tenured vintages the more time that we independently own and operate a tower asset the higher the tenancy and return profile of that asset tends to become.
This is repeatable in all the markets.
In Mexico our international market with the longest tenure we have generated organic core growth rates averaging nearly 10% over the last three years.
Going back to the 2000 to 2005 vintage in Mexico for example it generates NOI yields of more than 30% on both a local currency and a U.S.
dollar basis with average tenancy of 2.0.
For assets in Mexico added to the portfolio between 2005 and 2010 we're also generating approximately 30% NOI yields with over two tenants per tower on average.
We now anticipate significant incremental new business in Mexico from AT&amp;T América Móvil and other mobile operators as the competitive environment in that market becomes increasingly dynamic and 4G is aggressively introduced.
If it is estimated that for a robust near-nationwide 4G network to cover Mexico's population at least twice as many cell sites than currently exist will be required there.
Turning to South Africa where we started doing business only in 2011 organic core revenue growth rates for us there have averaged almost 15% while our consolidated local currency NOI yields sit at nearly 26% with the U.S.
dollar equivalent at about 19% there.
Carriers have aggressively spent capital to improve and extend their networks and a significant portion of those investments has resulted in incremental equipment being placed on our South African real estate.
In India we've experienced average organic core revenue growth of over 10% in the past year including nearly 14% in the second quarter.
On a three-year basis the average has been around 9%.
We've been able to generate solid returns on our assets in India since entering the market.
For the 2005 to 2010 vintage in India for example local currency NOI yields are about 12% with the U.S.
dollar equivalent at more than 10% and the average tenancy above 2.0 per tower.
And for sites we've added since 2010 which have all been build-to-suits the yields are actually even higher at around 20% with an average tenancy of 1.7 or so.
Currently in India Idea Vodafone Bharti and the other major carriers there are re-accelerating their spending after gaining increased clarity with respect to spectrum positions and the regulatory environment in that country.
And finally in Nigeria we're already seeing indications of very strong demand as we convert formerly-captive under-utilized Airtel assets into the multi-tenant commercial real estate leasing model.
With the largest population in Africa very limited fixed-line infrastructure a competitive wireless sector and a massive need for better networks we believe we can aggressively add tenants to our portfolio of approximately 4 700 sites there.
Given our acquired return hurdles in Nigeria even with one tenant these assets have a NOI yield of over 8%.
And by adding just one more tenant we believe we can grow those yields to 17% or more.
This illustrates the huge potential we see in this market.
In closing our focus has always been and will continue to be to leverage our international operations to extend and prolong our ability to drive compelling consistent long-term stockholder returns.
We have an extensive track record and a great team putting together great deployment of these assets and delivering really great high organic growth rates and consequently higher NOI yields to our investments.
Importantly a significant portion of our current international portfolio is comprised of sites that we have added over just the last few years which we expect will complement our high-performing U.S.
business with even greater growth rates for an extended period of time.
Tom and I will now be happy to take your questions so Operator can you open up the line please? Thank you sir.
Your first question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Ric.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Two questions if I could first appreciate Slide 11 in the deck think that was a very important slide for us to understand the AFFO increase in guidance.
I just want to make sure I've got it clear.
So $30 million from the external Airtel Nigeria acquisition but then $17 million from organic legacy assets and then $15 million from net cash interest taxes.
Can you give a little color on that? Just to make sure – I want to understand that and then also what the cash interest.
Sure.
You're thinking about it absolutely the right way.
As I mentioned on the EBITDA side with the adjusted outlook the updated outlook there was $22 million of outperformance there of which $17 million is cash and that comes from Global.
That comes from the International outperformance that we're seeing on the revenue side and some cost controls going on globally.
So reduced cost versus what we had actually thought in the original outlook.
And then on the net cash interest the $15 million my hat's off to Leah and the Treasury group in terms of how they've managed the portfolio refinanced an awful lot during the second quarter in terms of the – also the GTP we got slightly better rates than we had thought that we were going to get and termed out some of the revolvers better than we had thought.
So net that's actually generated some sizable interest savings and cash taxes is up a little bit versus our prior outlook to net to the $15 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then Jim for you appreciate a lot of good color there on the facts about the International business when we think about the International business clearly one of the key topics on everybody's mind right now is the Brazil economy.
How do you feel about the push of wireless being able to push against the local environment? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ric I've had some opportunity to interact at the very high levels of the Brazilian Government to try to understand the President and Finance Minister's plans.
And we think that those plans are going to fully support the mobile operators the continued deployment of 3G and 4G in the country.
One aspect of this is that this emergent middle-class that has developed in Brazil over say the last five years or so five to 10 year time period is stabilizing.
One of the government's major goals as was portrayed to us was that they didn't want backsliding from people who had made it in the middle class to backslide into a lower socioeconomic situation.
And they feel that they've been fairly successful in that.
And so that middle class is really the core customer for the 3G and 4G handset as it gets down to that $100 mark and the ARPUs go from call it $8 to $10 or $12 these people can afford that which is really important.
However the government also recognizes that it's time to get back to business if you will and the global economic situation is stable enough for them to do that.
And I think with the new Finance Minister in place and government policies that he and President Rousseff are implementing you're going to see a comeback by Brazil over the next few years sort of on a larger scale.
So we think it's very supportive.
And the last point I'll make about Brazil is who are these mobile operators? They are global multinational very well-capitalized companies with long-term views of their business.
And they're stepping up their investment in this market even while it may be sort of a downtick year on some of the in-country metrics.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then in Mexico you mentioned I think 2015 guidance includes just a minimal amount from AT&amp;T in Mexico.
Can you talk about what you think how that transpires and now that you also have América Móvil's telesites coming into the business of Towers? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ric there's a couple aspects to that.
One is we don't put anything in the guidance until we see applications in the office in Mexico City or in (39:53) or wherever the Operations team is accepting those around the world.
So you're absolutely right that we don't have anything significant in the guidance that Tom just laid out and probably won't see the significant impacts until 2016 because the applications have to come in.
We've got to process them price them negotiate with the clients et cetera.
That's a few months' process before the Notice to Proceed with equipment installation comes through and we start billing.
So 2016 I think is the prime time to see the full benefits of the increasing competitive nature in the Mexican mobile market but what's already clear is the value that AT&amp;T and América Móvil have publicly stated they're putting on ramping up their networks.
And I mentioned earlier their public statements are $3 billion and $6 billion respectively in investments over the next few years.
That's going to be a sizable increase in the CapEx devoted to Mexican mobile networks.
And all of our regression analyses in the U.S.
and elsewhere say when that happens we should have positive revenue upside.
But until we see those actual plans and have the MLA firmly in place and can model that based on the deployment plan we get from our customer we won't be able to quantify it quite yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Makes sense.
Hopefully AT&amp;T gives us more clarity on their August 12 analyst day on Mexico as well.
Thanks.
Good luck guys.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah thanks Ric.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much and good morning folks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Amir.
Inc.</span></strong> Wanted to just check with you in terms of the domestic market.
I mean obviously there's been a lot of chatter about various spending initiatives various technology deployments taking place to help augment and enhance capacity from the various carriers.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color in terms of the demand trends that you're seeing in the near-term when it comes to upgrade opportunities.
You continue to see fairly healthy growth when it comes to domestic site rental but how we should think about those trends playing out over the next 12 months when you start to look at sort of the different carrier initiatives.
Any color you can provide there would be very helpful.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Amir.
It's Jim.
And again I can sort of encapsulate the core elements of public statements our customers have made for you as they apply to our business.
So indulge me while I just run down the four major carriers quickly and you can let me know if there's a follow-up you'd like.
And I'll just start with Verizon.
What they're in the midst of doing right now is enhancing their network and the burgeoning data load that it's carrying based on their 4G service products.
By deploying AWS spectrum throughout the country and on many if not most and maybe someday almost all of their sites AWS spectrum is a much higher frequency of course than the 700 megahertz spectrum that's the foundation of the Verizon 4G network.
And so we're seeing as a consequence of that additional trend by Verizon towards co-locating on brand new towers that they hadn't had equipment on in the past with us.
That means there's cell splitting going on partly because of I would imagine capacity requirements but also driven in large part by the fact that these sites just need to be closer together because the spectrum is higher and it doesn't travel as far.
So I think that's one of the keys there.
The next phase for Verizon will be to re-farm their 1900 PCS spectrum from 3G to 4G.
I think that'll continue the phenomenon there.
Their CapEx spending has been really stable.
I do believe Verizon's network planning and operation team which is excellent and we know well has the confidence of the corporation to continue to spend at the levels they're spending and reinvest in that network which is pretty high-performing right now.
Turning to T-Mobile they're going the opposite direction and aggressively deploying A-block spectrum of the 700 MHz band which means additional equipment on a lot of sites they already are transmitting from so we see relatively more amendments from them as an example because they're going from a network that was designed around higher frequency spectrum and augmenting that with the 700 and then they'll fill it in I think in phases two and three beyond that over the next few years but that's much of what they're doing now.
The other interesting thing in our space for T-Mobile is their success in gaining customers on their marketing site so they're adding subscribers.
Some of those subscribers are then bringing up the usage in places where T-Mobile used to roam on other carriers' networks.
And as a result of that increasing revenue opportunity by being successful in the subscriber marketplace the business case for T-Mobile is to now start building out their own network assets in places where they used to pay their competitors to carry their traffic.
The jargon in our industry for that is a roaming overbuild.
(45:19) And we're seeing that in some areas of the country from T-Mobile which helps also drive new business with us.
And those of course tend to be new leases in those cases.
Turning to AT&amp;T we have a holistic agreement with AT&amp;T that's run a few years now and is designed to give them a steady opportunity to continue to deploy equipment on our sites under that agreement and they are.
The other benefit of that agreement for us is when they're in a grooming period as they are now – you'll recall that 18 to 12 months ago AT&amp;T was doing really outsized investment in their network.
When you have outsized investment you tend to have logically a little bit longer grooming period to get that investment in the network tuned perfectly see how it performs and then you go into another reinvestment cycle.
We're in the trough of that now but our holistic agreement keeps their revenues with us pretty steady.
One of the interesting facts that AT&amp;T's disclosed that their smartphone ARPU is double that of non-smartphone ARPU and now they're to a point where they're really aggressively transitioning as Verizon is almost all their investor base to smartphones and then upgrading those smartphones as well.
This rolling sort of compounding network demand is going to continue but that's just an interesting data point for us that they've talked about as a mobile operator which is when somebody does that conversion their ARPU doubles and their usage goes up too but their ARPU doubles and that allows them to reinvest to support that customer.
And Sprint is still in the we expect final planning stages of how they're going to go to their next network reinvestment cycle.
And we'll be closely working with them on that but at the moment again with a holistic agreement in place we have a steady and stable revenue trajectory from Sprint over the last few years.
That continues and we're looking forward to see if there's upside to that when the new roll-out plan comes out.
Amir did that cover your question? Inc.</span></strong> Jim that's very helpful.
Maybe one more follow-up question you had mentioned that AT&amp;T is sort of in this grooming period and that Sprint is at the final throws of its next-generation network plan build as you see your opportunity set with both of those carriers any signs in terms of when either carrier or both carriers could sort of transition more from this current stage that they're in right now to a more accelerated investment cycle? Thanks a lot.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Amir that's really a question for those companies.
We have really solid contractual arrangements in place right now so while our trajectory with both customers ought to be fairly stable over the next couple of years we're looking forward to that day but again as I said until we get applications in Woburn at our lease processing center we're not going to try to make estimates as to when and the magnitude but we will as soon as we can when we have the data.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much for the incremental color.
Your next question comes from the line of Batya Levi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Great thank you.
Just to follow-up on the prior question with all the color you gave on the carrier activity where do you think you will exit the year in terms of organic growth in the U.S.? And how does that bode for just the outlook for next year just some color around that? And the second point I just noticed that the discretionary CapEx was lowered for the year.
Is there a project that you thought you would spend on and no longer think it's visible or if you could provide some color there? Thanks.
Sure.
Hey Batya.
It's Tom.
What we said last quarter is that in the U.S.
we would expect our core organic growth in 2015 to be at the 7%.
We were there in the first quarter.
We're really there in the second quarter when you back out the decommissioning revenues in terms of what the trends are.
And so we would expect that to be for the balance of the year.
And on the discretionary we see a bit of a mixed trend difference in terms of our Build-to-Suits.
And so the biggest piece of the declining CapEx is in our development part of the budget.
And while we're still going to be building we expect in the kind of that 3 000 range we expect more of those sites to be built outside the United States than inside the United States.
And so as a result given the cost to build is lower outside the United States we are taking down our overall discretionary build.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of David Barden Bank of America.
Your line is open Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
If I could just ask a few first thank you for the disclosure on the Verizon asset take rate.
I think if I'm not mis-characterizing it when deal was concluded the expectation that you guys laid out was that that portfolio could grow at or in excess of the core portfolio in the U.S.
market.
Could you kind of elaborate a little bit on whether this 900 site applications that you've kind of gleaned to this point in time is putting you on that trajectory? And if you have any greater color on when you might be able to get to some run rate growth on that Verizon portfolio it'd be helpful.
Second it looks like this quarter you took up the core organic international growth rate a little bit half a percentage point.
It sounds like that's not coming from Mexico.
If you could elaborate on which international markets are driving that.
And then the last one if I could it's just could you share any insights that you may have gleaned into the small cell site business and the multiples that you have to pay for it from the recent Extanet recap (51:15) announcement? Thanks a lot.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
David it's Jim.
I'll try to get as much of that done in the time as we have left as possible.
Sorry.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And still give time for someone else to pop in but let me speak quickly on Verizon.
As any other large asset acquisition in our space by any of the peer group there's an integration period that needs to happen.
We get the sites and the site's information and data on day one of the closing.
And we get the right to market those sites to others who may or may not have felt they've had access to them in the past.
And so there is a ramp-up period to get to if you will full leasing speed.
It's like accelerating a car from zero to 60 so what we are seeing is the first six months or three to six months of what we expected to happen during that initial launch and acceleration period is indeed happening.
There's a lot of pent-up demand both literally applications that were around Verizon's regions that were sort of in drawers and in files to be processed.
We've gotten all those and we hope more speedily implementing those applications than otherwise had been.
And then we've already got about another 400 or 500 that have come in through our sales force since we've gotten the sites.
So for this stage of the zero to 60 acceleration we feel are at or ahead of where we need to be.
In addition to that our initial SG&amp;A review is showing that we'll probably come in under the SG&amp;A we thought we needed to add at American Tower to manage these sites.
So by again the end of the first full year of owning and operating the Verizon sites we see ourselves bringing in the new business and revenue that we thought at least that much.
And we also see us under-spending on the cost side as well.
We'll finish this integration process and be up to the sort of 60 miles an hour speed in the first half of 2016 some time.
We've got 12 000 sites to do.
I've been out to some of the site visits.
These are extensive and thorough as they should be.
And when we get that site visit done and get all the information and drawings into our system as I've seen done we're ready to go and lease that site quickly.
And that's our goal.
So that's where we are in Verizon and I would say at or on the trajectory of speed that we had hoped for at this point.
Core organic growth in the international markets India and Brazil are outperforming as are some others but those are the two biggest ones with the most impact.
As far as small cells I'm going to give you the short answer.
I have a very expensive lunch someday for you when we're together David based on our entire strategy of the three strategic pillars that we put in place when I got here in 2001.
And those are: to reach sufficient asset scale to drive performance in whatever asset class we participate in; to then drive superior operational execution to expand margins with those assets; and at the same time maintain a strong financial position.
So those are still our goals.
We are an investor in small cells by the way.
We're the largest player both in the U.S.
and outside to my knowledge in the independent third-party provisioning indoor distributed antenna systems which we think are the best-performing fast growth most co-locatable and highest margin types of small cells that we're aware of so far.
And we're evaluating everything else.
As to individual transactions we don't have visibility to the details behind those and really can't speak to them but we're an active player in this.
We're looking at every asset class.
We are going to rate those asset classes in those three categories and on our expected ability to drive growth and returns.
And we're looking at all those asset classes.
And at the moment we're very focused on U.S.
macro towers international macro towers into our DAS systems and there may be more to come based on our ongoing assessment.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks for fitting me in.
I just wanted to go back to David's question as it relates to the International.
I'm not sure if you answered that but just wanted to get a sense of where the slight uptick in organic growth is coming from.
And then just a housekeeping question you mentioned $15 million in U.S.
non-cash straight-line impact the change there in the guidance.
What exactly I guess drove that? I guess I'll just stop there.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Please start.
So Colby beyond my mentioning Brazil and India as being the outsized drivers of the increase in International guidance is this more color you're asking for here? No I guess might have just missed that.
So maybe if I could just pivot on my question then also the strong margins both in the U.S.
and International we saw is there anything that was notable that maybe was one-time in nature that we should be taking into consideration when we're modeling out as we go into the third quarter? No.
No.
There isn't Colby.
I mean I think what we've been able to demonstrate is demonstrating the beauty of the scale that we've been able to create in the market excluding the past that when we went from 70% up to 75% margins.
And again it's just been a function of increased tenancy which as Jim said is just an increase of what we're seeing organically going on in those markets.
You had India it grew at 14%.
You've got EMEA overall grow 14%.
In Mexico while AT&amp;T hasn't started its program we saw a pick-up in Mexico which as I've said before has been a little bit sleepy over the last couple of years and even the first quarter it was about 5% and it went up to about 7%.
So we saw an uptick in that market as well so we're seeing it globally.
And with regards to your second question on driving the straight-line we reviewed contracts associated with some recent contract extensions that we'd done at the end of last year and determined that there were certain leases that were not straight-line-able and made the adjustment to our expectations for non-cash straight-line revenues.
And we do that regularly and review the methodology and discovered that we just needed to make the adjustment for the year.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Given there's been a couple of recent IPOs in Europe wanted to get your thoughts on strategically do you think you have enough scale in that market to be competitive long-term and do you want to be the leader in that market? And I guess if the price was right would you consider ever selling your asset? And then a sort of follow-up to that with Deutsche Tel buying towers from Telefónica does that impact your lease-up assumptions for the German sites? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Kevin it's Jim.
So we've had a team evaluating EMEA and specifically Western Europe since 2007.
And some of our conclusions so far make the investments there for us a little more challenging let's say.
Some of those are structural issues.
So without going into all of the technical details the towers themselves in most of the markets and the German sites that we bought from E-Plus a year year and a half two years ago or don't fit in this category tend to be very short structurally really only designed for the individual one carrier that put it up.
The other issue sometimes in some of these countries the governments have mandated network swapping or non-commercial sharing which then takes away some of the upside.
So we have to put these kinds of structural and regulatory elements into our assessment.
Therefore again it's a tougher investment case for us than many of the countries with a lot of the assets.
The other side of the coin is because these are short small single-use towers when there is industry consolidation in terms of carriers going from say five to four; four to three in a country in Europe they're going to want to try to rationalize some of those towers which makes the hurdle for investment in the towers potentially even higher.
So the structural and regulatory issues raise the bar for us so to speak in many investment scenarios in Western Europe.
However the one exception we did find so far was the E-Plus sites in Germany.
We anticipated the merger of Telefónica's asset there and E-Plus kind of based out of the business model we sort of knew it was coming so it doesn't really affect the business case.
In that situation we were able to meet our growth and return on investment combination that we see a little less growth a little more return on investment up front and all the math worked for us.
So we're going to keep looking for those but I'm not sure we're going to be sort of the market leader under current conditions in Western Europe although we're going to keep at it.
Inc.</span></strong> Would you exit that market if you got a good offer for that asset? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The right shareholder question is we would exit the market if we got an offer that was greater than the intrinsic value we put on that market if there is a combination or strategic integration with any other market but in this particular case there isn't one so yes.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bowen from Pacific Crest.
Your line is open.
All right.
Good morning.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Just wanted to ask you a question about DAS I think you mentioned there were on average 2.2 tenancies per site at this point.
What ultimately do you think might be the right figure for that long-term? And then can you talk a little bit about what we have been saying will be most likely tailwinds from AWS-3 and then the 600 MHz auction FirstNet potential with DISH and T-Mobile? Can you talk about any of your expectations with regard to the benefits from each one of those four items? Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're really short on time so I'm going to summarize both those topics for you Michael.
It's Jim.
There's a differentiation between indoor DAS performance that we've seen and outdoor DAS performance.
And so our tenancy is on the indoor DAS systems which we view as much more co-locatable for a host of technical reasons which again we don't have time to get into right now.
And that's been borne out in the actual feedback on the sites and systems we have up and running.
So our tenancy on IDAS is over two just like towers you'd expect them if you've been running them for five or more years to have over two customers per tower say in the U.S.
and that's our experience with indoor DAS.
Outdoor DAS is younger.
It isn't there yet but we're finding the lease-up rate frankly to be slower.
There's not 100% overlap between all the carriers on an initial design so you don't have 100% of the lease-up opportunity.
And the ODAS systems tend to be much more expensive to put in.
And they're therefore more expensive to the carrier from a rental perspective and it's a harder decision for them.
Our gross margins with indoor DAS systems again right up there with tower 75% in the U.S.
and return on invested capital in the same ballpark as towers 16% so mid to high double-digit returns.
So Indoor DAS for us is meeting our investment criteria the same sort of investment criteria we have on U.S.
macro towers and the international macro towers and that's where we focus.
We are seeking to find other types of small cell assets in the asset class that we can have confidence can reach these kinds of metrics.
And we're going to continue to search for those.
As far as the ultimate opportunity in indoor DAS it's probably similar to the ultimate opportunity with towers.
Can you get to three tenants over a period of time? It's a logical thing that you can.
So that would be what we would see there.
Secondly you asked about a number of sort of additional opportunities to drive leasing.
Those are all there.
We don't put them again into our guidance until they're actually in place applications.
Based on those that are coming in it's hard to speculate on them individually but they're all constructive for the long-term trajectory of U.S.
tower demand frankly.
Tom do you want to add anything? No I think that's exactly right.
I mean we haven't baked them into the guidance and we wouldn't expect them to be hitting in 2015 but generally they're a very constructive positive for us going into 2016 through 2018.
Okay.
Thank you for taking the questions.
You bet.
Your last question comes from Jonathan Atkin from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
I was wondering so apart from Nigeria and Mexico are you seeing any contributors so far in second half leasing that weren't present in the first half? And that's kind of a global question so it includes the U.S.
And then I was interested specifically in Nigeria and India what kind of opportunities that you see to supplement – in the case of Nigeria the recent acquisition; and then in the case of India the build plan that you've been on in terms of increasing your assets in both markets? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jonathan the first part of your question broke up a little bit which means we need some more network investment in the U.S.
apparently but could you just repeat the first part of the question? So I was wondering if you're seeing any contributors to second half leasing that weren't present in the first half excluding obviously Nigeria and Mexico? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'd say the trends are well-established and in place.
It's the four carriers I talked about in the U.S.
Verizon very stable long-term network plans steady investment they have spectrum that they're deploying in a deliberate fashion over a long period of time in a couple of different bands.
Again T-Mobile very successful on the net add side therefore justifying roaming overbuilds (66:26) et cetera but all of those things are not quarter-to-quarter for any of these customers frankly.
They're very long-term.
If you want to take a snapshot of Brazil the four carriers are trying to on one hand manage all the mobile data demand that's coming down the road with cheaper smartphones and more penetration and getting ready for the Olympics which is in 2016.
So all the drivers in our business tend to not be for one half or one quarter to come and go but they tend to be over many years and that's why when you get some real clarity around the DISH spectrum we don't know when that's going to be.
We don't know what that's going to be but when there is on that deployment it'll be a long-term benefit in some form for the domestic tower industry.
So not being really specific it just popped out in recent weeks and months to say hey the second half is good going to be affected by those in a material way.
And I would just add Jonathan on the second part of the question I mean Nigeria we just closed.
We're very focused on getting that asset integrated and getting it going forward.
And we're as Jim said excited about the growth that we see there.
There are other assets there but I think our first priority is clearly just integrating that business into our portfolio.
And as you well know we have business development teams around the world.
We continue to look at asset classes in every market that we're in.
India is a significant opportunity.
We have significant builds going on in the marketplace.
There are a lot of other assets in the market itself.
And we have a very disciplined process that we'll put each one of those assets through to see whether it meets our criteria and whether we're able to close on it but it's clearly our strategy to get deeper and deeper into each and every market that we're in to be the number one or two player in every market that we're at.
And as we saw even in the second quarter as a result of the scale that we've been able to have in our international markets we've really been able to increase significantly the operating margins and the leverage in the market.
The model works and we just need to continue to put these different opportunities through the process that we have and to the extent that it meets our criteria we'll hopefully be able to move on it.
And we have the balance sheet to be able to do it.
Thank you.
Sure.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Leah I turn the call back to you.
Treasurer and Investor Relations</strong> Great thank you.
Thanks everybody.
Any questions please give us a call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the American Tower Announces Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operation Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Leah Stearns.
Please go ahead.
Well I guess it sounds a little bit like Groundhog Day but good morning everyone and thank you for joining American Tower's third quarter earnings conference call.
We've posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows.
First Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO will review our financial and operational performance for the third quarter as well as our full year outlook for 2015.
And then Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will discuss recent technology trends how they will impact the mobile value chain and how our diversified portfolio of assets positions us to drive compelling returns for shareholders well into the future.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions at which time we would appreciate that any questions be limited to a single topic so that we may enable maximum Q&amp;A participation on today's call.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our 2015 outlook foreign currency exchange rates and future operating performance our expectations regarding our future growth technology industry trends anticipated closings of acquisitions anticipated contributions of pending acquisitions and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in yesterday's press release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and in our other filings we make with the SEC.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
And with that please turn to slide 4 of the presentation which provides a summary of our third quarter 2015 results.
During the quarter our Rental and Management revenue grew 20% from the third quarter of 2014 to over $1.21 billion.
During the third quarter our adjusted EBITDA grew 17% to approximately $779 million and adjusted funds from operations increased by more than 21% to approximately $558 million.
During the quarter net income attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders declined by approximately $124 million to about $76 million or $0.18 per basic and diluted common share.
The primary drivers of the year-over-year decline in net income were the one-time $93 million cash tax charge as part of our previously announced GTP REIT tax election and approximately $78 million related to unrealized foreign currency losses attributable to our intercompany balances.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter we announced an agreement to acquire a 51% controlling stake in Viom Networks in India.
Please note that given the regulatory process associated with the transaction we will not be in a position to provide detail on our future expectations regarding the acquisition until that process has concluded.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom who will discuss our results in more detail.
Thanks Leah.
Good morning everyone and thank you again for joining us this morning.
As you can see we had a solid third quarter from both an organic and inorganic growth perspective.
In addition we continue to add assets in select key markets where we believe the opportunity for long-term sustainable growth is compelling.
This includes the acquisition of the nearly 4 700 towers in Nigeria we closed in July and a follow-on close of an additional 1 100 sites in Brazil from TIM at the end of September.
And as Leah said just last week we announced an agreement to acquire a 51% controlling stake in Viom Networks in India.
This transaction will expand our tower footprint there to over 57 000 sites while materially enhancing our ability to help all of the country's major carriers as they deploy 3G and 4G nationwide.
As we've said previously we believe India is 5 years to 10 years behind the U.S.
in terms of wireless technology deployments and given just a 4% fixed line penetration and a population of over a billion people predominantly using 2G technology India is a very attractive market for a tower operator like ourselves.
In addition this transaction is also expected to be immediately accretive to AFFO per share and will help us continue to achieve our aspirational goal of annual double-digit AFFO per share growth over the long-term.
If you'll please turn to slide 6 let's now talk about our quarterly results.
Our consolidated Rental and Management revenue in the quarter increased by 20% to just over $1.2 billion.
On a core basis our total Rental and Management revenue growth was more than 27% and of this core growth over 7% was organic.
The balance of our core growth or approximately 20% was attributable to properties we've added since the beginning of last year including over 12 000 sites domestically and about 20 000 sites in our international markets with over 5 000 of the total sites that we built ourselves.
The Verizon Airtel Nigeria and TIM Brazil portfolios comprised the bulk of the inorganic core growth for the quarter.
Turning to slide 7 our Domestic Rental and Management segment generated core growth in revenue of about 21% during the third quarter with organic core growth in revenue of about 6%.
On a year-to-date basis our domestic organic core revenue growth was about 7%.
Our annual organic core growth rate continues to benefit from the elevated decommissioning revenues we've recognized in 2015.
As we previously discussed decommissioning revenues are expected to be around $38 million for 2015 which is higher than the $21 million we received in 2014.
And year-to-date as of the end of the third quarter we received about $29 million in decommissioning revenues as compared to about $18 million through the same period in 2014.
T-Mobile and Verizon drove the majority of our commenced new business in Q3 and continue to comprise the bulk of our new business pipeline.
In addition to solid commencement activity we saw a slight sequential improvement in signed new business during the quarter.
Overall our U.S.
business continues to deliver good performance with organic growth for the year expected to be right in the middle of our long-term target range.
In addition our new Verizon sites are performing in line with our expectations and the integration process is progressing on schedule.
Our Domestic Rental and Management gross margin increased by about 17% on both a reported and core basis to $621 million and reflected a 63% revenue conversion rate.
Excluding the Verizon sites this conversion rate would have been over 90%.
In other words $0.90 of every incremental $1 of organic revenue is falling to the gross margin line.
We also continue to invest in our domestic business.
And during the quarter we constructed 22 towers and added two new DAS systems.
While our DAS business continues to comprise a small portion of our domestic revenues it is growing quickly.
On a year-to-date basis for example revenue from DAS systems grew over 30% over the prior year period excluding the impacts of any amortization revenue derived from capital contributions.
In addition to investing in new construction in the U.S.
we had a record quarter of land management activity purchasing about 250 parcels and extending ground leases on about 630 of our sites with the extensions averaging 31 years.
Around 62% of the land under our U.S.
towers is now either owned or controlled for more than 20 years and we would expect to get that number up to 80% within the next five years.
Reported and core Domestic Rental and Management operating profit growth was about 18%.
This reflects strong revenue growth our continuing focus on property level cost controls and SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue of under 4%.
Moving on to slide 8 our International Rental and Management segment had a solid quarter with reported growth of about 17% and core growth of about 44%.
Organic core growth in revenue was nearly 11%.
All of our international regions continue to deliver strong organic core growth.
We are particularly encouraged by the continuing strong trends in Africa where organic core growth was once again over 20% in markets like Ghana and Uganda.
Reported international revenue growth was negatively impacted by foreign currency translation effects of about $100 million as compared to the prior year period.
We saw strong demand in the quarter with markets such as Mexico Peru and South Africa all generating double-digit sequential growth in signed new business.
Large investment-grade tenants like AT&amp;T Vodafone and Telefónica continue to comprise the majority of our international revenues and organic new business growth.
Additionally although our operating history in Nigeria has only been a few months performance relative to new business commencements in the market is already exceeding expectations.
We also further solidified our international revenue growth visibility by signing a long-term master lease agreement with AT&amp;T in Mexico.
In addition we continue to invest in our existing markets through new tower construction and built over 730 new towers across our international footprint.
We added nearly 400 towers for tenants like Bharti and Vodafone in India.
And had an exceptionally strong quarter of new build activity in Brazil with over 230 new sites constructed primarily for Vivo and TIM.
We also added nine international DAS systems in the quarter bringing our international DAS system count to 137 systems.
International Rental and Management gross margin in the quarter grew nearly 13% to about $240 million.
Our reported international operating profit grew nearly 15% to $205 million and the operating profit margin percentage was about 51%.
Excluding pass-through revenue our international operating margin expanded over 120 basis points to 72% as compared to the prior year period.
Our core growth in international operating profit was 48%.
Turning to slide 9 on a consolidated basis reported adjusted EBITDA growth in the quarter was 17% with core growth of about 26% and an adjusted EBITDA margin of nearly 63%.
Excluding the impact of international pass-through revenue our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was about 70%.
We've been able to maintain this rate while adding roughly 30 000 towers with an average tenancy of 1.3 tenants per tower over the last year.
Our adjusted EBITDA conversion ratio was approximately 65% excluding pass-through or around 90% if you exclude the impacts of adding the new lower tenancy Verizon TIM Brazil and Airtel Nigeria assets to the base.
Cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue in the quarter was under 8%.
And for the full year we expect our cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be just over 8% versus the 9% and 10% rates of 2014 and 2013 respectively.
Longer term we expect this annual percentage to continue to decline further as we leverage our existing SG&amp;A base while driving organic growth.
Our strong adjusted EBITDA performance resulted in solid growth in AFFO which increased over 21% to $558 million or $1.31 per share.
Core AFFO growth was nearly 33%.
And our adjusted EBITDA to AFFO conversion ratio during the quarter was just under 87%.
Moving on to slide 10 we are revising our 2015 Rental and Management segment revenue outlook to $4.65 billion at the midpoint which reflects additional foreign currency translation effects of about $56 million relative to our prior outlook due to the strengthening dollar which will be largely offset by organic outperformance of our legacy international assets of around $5 million additional straight-line revenue of about $16 million principally due to our newly-executed master lease agreement in Mexico with AT&amp;T additional pass-through revenue of about $10 million versus our prior outlook and about $5 million in additional revenue from the 1 125 TIM Brazil sites we closed on September 30.
For the year we expect core growth in consolidated Rental and Management segment revenue of around 23%.
This includes organic core growth expectations of about 7% and nearly 11% for our Domestic and International segments respectively resulting in a consolidated annual organic core growth rate of 8%.
Moving forward we expect our international markets to benefit from rising escalators attributable to higher inflation measures in the local markets which should help support International organic core growth and provide some additional insulation from foreign exchange translation effects.
Despite slightly lowered revenue expectations due to the strengthening dollar we are raising our adjusted EBITDA outlook midpoint by $5 million to $3.05 billion.
This reflects both the strong revenue growth of our core business and ongoing cost management which are more than offsetting the increased unfavorable FX impact to adjusted EBITDA of about $30 million relative to our prior outlook.
We now expect core growth in adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be over 22% which is about 90 basis points higher than our prior outlook.
Turning to slide 11 we are also raising our full year AFFO outlook by $10 million to $2.13 billion at the midpoint.
This is being driven by around $23 million in incremental cash EBITDA from our sites about $9 million in reduced maintenance and corporate CapEx and $5 million in reduced cash interest.
This is being partially offset by an incremental $27 million in negative foreign currency translation effects versus our prior AFFO outlook.
Our AFFO growth is now expected to be over 17% for the year or about 27% on a core basis.
We expect our AFFO per share growth at the midpoint to be nearly 11% or almost 20% on a core basis.
Consequently we now expect to generate over $5 per share of AFFO for the full year.
Moving on to slide 12 we remain committed to our capital deployment strategy which we believe will support our business in generating consistently strong growth across a variety of business and economic cycles.
We are focused on simultaneously funding growth returning cash to our stockholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
So far this year we've committed nearly $9 billion to our M&amp;A program including our pending Viom transaction declared about $620 million in common and mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends and deployed over $500 million in CapEx.
About 40% of our annual CapEx spend is for the construction of an expected 3 000 new build-to-suit sites based on the midpoint of our outlook.
Year-to-date we've completed the construction of over 2 300 sites and have generated a first year return on investment of over 9% on those sites on a consolidated basis.
We believe that the combination of our growth in AFFO per share and our REIT distribution will create meaningful value for our stockholders.
This includes expected annual growth in the REIT distribution of at least 20% which has actually been 30% or so over the last 12 months.
Our payout ratio as a percentage of AFFO is currently about 35% and is expected to grow to between 40% and 50% within the next few years due to anticipated growth in our taxable income and the reduction of our net operating loss carry-forwards.
We also seek to maintain a substantial base of liquidity and had about $2 billion in cash and borrowing capacity under our revolvers as of the end of the quarter.
From a capital markets perspective our focus for the remainder of the year will be to opportunistically extend duration and ladder out our maturities which today have an average remaining term of nearly six years with an average interest cost of about 3.4%.
We took steps towards attaining these goals just this week as we extended the maturity dates of our credit facilities and term loan.
We remain committed to maintaining our investment-grade credit rating and expect to end 2015 with net leverage in the mid five times range.
Additionally we expect to be at five times or below by the end of 2016 including the impact of our recently announced Viom transaction.
We expect to evaluate a variety of financing options for this transaction and our other funding needs in keeping with our commitment to investment grade while maximizing the value for our equity holders.
Our long-term target leverage range continues to be between three times and five times net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
And over the long-term we intend to utilize our solid financial platform to continue to invest in global multi-tenant commercial real estate assets where it makes financial sense to do so.
And if those opportunities aren't available return that generated cash back to our shareholders.
Turning to slide 13 and in summary our global business has generated core growth above our long-term target for all key metrics so far this year.
And we believe we are well-positioned to finish the year strong.
Our high quality asset base strong balance sheet and manageable leverage positions us well to continue to invest in future growth with our recently announced Viom transaction as a prime example.
This transaction will significantly increase our presence in a key global market increase our portfolios exposure to India's densely populated areas and enhance our role in the government's Digital India initiative.
This is an exciting time to further increase our presence in India as the market appears to be at a significant inflection point in terms of wireless network investment and we are excited to help our customers further enhance their wireless networks in the market.
Trends across the rest of the markets in our diversified global footprint continue to be favorable as well with consumer demand for mobile data increasing at a tremendous pace.
Including the impact of Viom we now have a strong presence in the four largest most strategic markets across the continents we serve.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Jim for some closing remarks before we take some Q&amp;A.
Jim? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
As we do every year on our third quarter calls I'll focus today's remarks on the fundamental trends in wireless usage and technology which we believe will continue to drive network investment and long-term growth for American Tower.
So let's begin with U.S.
mobile data usage trends and projections as illustrated on slide 15.
The monthly mobile data usage per subscriber on smartphones laptops and especially tablets is projected to increase significantly as people seek to mobilize more and more aspects of their daily routine.
We believe this growth in mobile data traffic is principally a result of a virtuous cycle.
First after years of significant investment mobile networks today are more capable than ever at delivering the necessary speeds to support high bandwidth data and entertainment applications.
Second mobile device processor battery software and screen improvements are facilitating increased mobile app navigation music and video consumption.
For example leading-edge new LTE devices like the iPhone 6s and Samsung Galaxy S6 continue to expand the scope of what we can do on a mobile handset.
And whether it's a simple phone call listening to your favorite music streaming service or getting turn by turn directions while driving in your car a strong continuous mobile phone signal is becoming ever more essential.
As a result current projections are for the average U.S.
smartphone to consume more than 7.5 gigabytes per month in mobile data by 2019 up from around just 2 gigabytes today.
An even greater increase in average usage is projected for network connected tablets which are expected to consume nearly double the amount of an average smartphone by 2019.
Whether it's streaming an NFL game on 4G at the airport or entertaining your kids with an iPad on a long road trip mobile video connectivity is becoming more mainstream.
This transformation is being fueled by the wire to mobile conversion of social media and branded video content especially by over-the-top providers such as Netflix.
The cumulative impact of these usage trends is shown on slide 16.
After nearly quadrupling in the last three years total U.S.
mobile data usage is expected to more than quadruple again by 2019.
Since the early part of the 2000s carriers have invested nearly $350 billion in wireless CapEx as illustrated by the gray shading on slide 17.
They're using this cash to build out their nationwide mobile networks to support the fixed to mobile conversion of first telephony then Internet services and most recently social media and entertainment.
Each new generation of technology has in turn resulted in explosive growth of traffic on those enhanced networks and then a subsequent step function increase in network investment levels completing the virtuous cycle.
There are two facets of mobile network investment which are depicted on the next slide.
The first is known as the core side of the network the fixed line portion of this system which consists of the switches servers and related electronics the fiber optic cable and copper that connects all these major components together and the software that makes it all work.
The other side of the network is known as the RAN or radio access network and is made up of the widely-distributed transmission or cell sites.
Each cell then utilizes an air link over radio spectrum to reach your device over the air.
At American Tower we play only on the RAN side of the network and demand for our real estate goes up directly whenever more transmission equipment such as antennas is required for capacity or when new cell locations are needed for coverage.
Moreover our demand goes up indirectly when improvements in the core network reduced its cost of operation potentially freeing up more capital and/or OpEx resources for the RAN and its many cell sites.
Therefore it's crucial to view technology and industry developments as they relate to American Tower by asking three simple questions about each.
First does this particular technology significantly improve air-link capacity and thus reduce the need for equipment on towers? Second does this technology significantly increase the distance a high-quality wireless signal can travel allowing sites to be positioned further apart? And third conversely does this technology reduce core network costs which then would enable more resources to be deployed back into the RAN.
So now I'll spend a few minutes on several emerging technologies which we believe are or will be incorporated in the future network deployments and address those three critical questions for each.
First let's start with self optimizing networks or SONs and software-defined networks or SDNs.
SONs allow networks to be more intelligent by dynamically managing traffic.
This helps carriers reduce expensive truck rolls to make physical network equipment adjustments in the field.
Meanwhile SDNs provide carriers with a tool to add new network functionality and services through simple software upgrades dramatically reducing time and cost.
Both the SON and SDN therefore primarily enhance the efficiency of the core side of carrier networks and help operators reduce OpEx and CapEx there.
So we view both of these technologies as neutral to positive for tower demand.
Next let's address Cloud RAN or C-RAN technology which enables carriers to centralize the base stations of several cell sites at a datacenter instead of having dedicated ground-based equipment at each tower site.
As a result the carriers are able to reduce their base station costs and enhance the processing efficiency of the mobile core portion of their networks while their ground space requirements at the base of towers can decrease with C-RAN in use the amount of equipment on the towers themselves is unaffected or in some cases actually increases as remote radio heads are installed on the tower.
So for a tower operator we also expect C-RAN to be typically neutral to net positive.
As you can see on slide 19 it is our understanding that none of the technologies I just mentioned materially enhance air-link capacity or extend effective signal ratings.
Conversely when it comes to whether or not these innovations have the capability to decrease carrier operating expense on the core side of the network the answer is yes.
Over the long-term this should be a positive for the tower industry.
Turning to the air link side of the network there have been technological improvements which over time have improved network capacity.
For example carrier aggregation has enabled mobile operators to deploy unpaired spectrum usually with high and low bands together all in one site.
This adds network capacity in the short term as spectrum assets are more effectively utilized.
But in the long-term we believe this will actually lead to increased cell site densification as the design requirements of the highest-frequency band spectrum will dictate ultimate network density and overall design requirements.
Our estimate is that over the last few years capacity gains from new spectrum and higher spectral efficiency of LTE have absorbed roughly 20% to 30% of incremental network usage leaving the 70% to 80% being solved through additional cell sites and equipment on our towers.
As I've highlighted in past calls the laws of physics govern the properties of RF signal propagation and thereby limit the impact that many changes in technology can have to the air-link portion of a mobile network.
For example in the largely suburban and rural areas served by our U.S.
towers antenna elevations of at least 75 feet above ground level are usually needed for effective signal transmission.
Antennas that are upwards of 10 feet tall also continue to be required for the specific spectrum bands being used and the cell radius being served in these topologies.
In addition higher bandwidth data traffic requires more signal propagation locations to ensure sufficient signal strength and more equipment at those locations to process that signal as well.
And these trends drive solid core organic growth that you've seen in our business year after year.
Given the topographic and demographic characteristics of the United States and our international markets we continue to expect the macro tower to be the predominant siting solution for carrier network deployments now and in the future.
Additionally the improvement of technology in the mobile core should enable the carriers to deploy relatively more capital on their radio access network build-outs to keep up with the demand.
This may be especially relevant with the much higher throughput expected on future 5G networks and beyond.
Moreover our international operations continue to benefit from the increasing availability of cheaper more advanced smartphones and the greater ability of many more people around the world to afford them.
Mobile connectivity is revolutionizing communications commerce and entertainment in the developing world.
And we think that in many of our served markets the modernization cycle has actually accelerated.
As you can see on slide 20 we are positioned internationally with a diverse portfolio of assets in markets where the rate of growth in mobile data traffic is likely to outpace even that of the U.S.
An excellent example of this phenomenon is in India which will be our largest international market pro forma for the close of our recently announced Viom transaction.
The wireless sector in India is roughly in the same stage as the U.S.
was in around 2005 with smartphone penetration of less than 25% and the vast majority of the population still on 2G technology.
Like what occurred in the U.S.
a fundamental shift towards more advanced wireless technology is now underway in India with the major carriers announcing significant network build plans for 3G and even the initial rollout of 4G beginning in key urban metros where Viom is especially well-positioned.
Another compelling example of a market that's still in the – early in the wireless technology curve is Nigeria.
Similar to India there's virtually no fixed line infrastructure in place there.
The large predominantly young population of more than 170 million people has embraced wireless.
But more than 80% of the devices being used in Nigeria are still on 2G.
Cheaper more advanced handsets are expected to drive significant growth in mobile data traffic.
And carriers there are making significant investments in their networks to capitalize on this shift.
Taken together we expect our diverse and substantial international assets to deliver growth that will be stronger for longer than even in the U.S.
And given the consumer and industry trends in the U.S.
and across our global footprint we do expect to continue to deliver strong long-term growth in AFFO and very attractive total returns for our shareholders.
So thanks again for joining us today and Tom and I will now be happy to take your questions.
So operator can you please go ahead and open up the call? Thank you.
Your first question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much and good morning Jim Tom and Leah.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Amir.
Inc.</span></strong> Jim you provided some comprehensive color on the demand drivers for traffic but as we know that when and how the carriers choose to address data traffic is also a factor in determining the impact of these trends on your business.
I was wondering if you could provide some updated color on what you're seeing in terms of application activity as we've seen fluctuating behavior from different carriers in the U.S.
through the course of 2015.
And so any incremental color that you could provide there would be helpful.
And then dovetailing on that you mentioned that – I think Tom you mentioned that your DAS business is up 30% year-to-date.
Can you provide some insight on the size and scope of that business? And how we should think about that opportunity for you folks going forward as carriers increasingly use some of these systems to address some of these traffic trends that you've highlighted in your commentary? Thank you very much.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Amir.
It's Jim and I'll address your first question.
U.S.
applications as Tom said are up slightly from the second quarter to third quarter of this year.
And I can give you a quick run through of where we see the demand coming from largely based frankly on the public statements of the carriers.
But we can give you a little more color on some of it.
Our largest new business customers over the last couple of quarters have been Verizon and T-Mobile sort of running neck and neck in a way the last six months I'd say.
And T-Mobile in the field we see them deploying aggressively their 700 megahertz A block spectrum.
That's going to give them a stronger signal in places they don't have it.
They're also doing a roaming overbuild which continues.
Because of the success of their subscriber additions they can actually make the decisions to put network equipment in place in more territories across the United States and they're doing that.
So T-Mobile is being pretty aggressive this year.
Verizon is pretty stable and steady.
Their wireless CapEx is up almost 20% year-to-date from 2014.
They guided I think to $8.6 billion for mobile spending for CapEx in 2015.
They're aggressively deploying AWS spectrum across their markets to handle the data demand that they're seeing from their customer base.
And again on a pretty stable sort of spending and deployment schedule in our estimation.
AT&amp;T continues to be grooming I guess we'd call it.
They were our biggest customer for new business from late 2013 to mid-2014.
And they've taken the intervening year or so to groom that investment and make sure that it's effectively being utilized for its subscriber base.
They're guiding as everybody I think knows a little bit less from year to year CapEx spending they're at $6.6 billion.
So just as a reference.
If Verizon is at $8.6 billion in 2015 and AT&amp;T is at $6.6 billion how does that future comparison or trend play out? I think everybody could draw their own conclusions on that.
But we do expect AT&amp;T to continue to be competitive over the next few years on a network side of the business.
They are also going to be looking at deploying as Verizon AWS-3 once that gets cleared and available.
What's interesting to us about AWS-3 and especially the fact that Verizon and AT&amp;T spent collectively almost $20 billion for that spectrum is that it means that the fundamental 4G network which is based on 700 megahertz spectrum today is going to be complemented essentially nationally by 1.7 GHz and 2.1 GHz spectrum which doesn't have the same favorable transmission characteristics of course as 700 MHz.
So what we view AWS-3 long-term deployment in terms for the companies like American Tower is that you're going to have a denser network for 4G at the end of the day to carry the traffic.
And so you see that in pieces now with various carriers deploying AWS and other pieces of spectrum including Sprint with its 2.5 GHz.
But as the time goes on the only way to carry this traffic that we've been describing is going to be with AWS and higher spectrum the sites are going to ultimately have to be closer together we think.
And that will take time.
It will play out over a series of years.
But we do think it will underpin some pretty good U.S.
growth for the long-term.
And then finally just to make mention on Sprint I believe they're still in the midst of finalizing their network strategy and once they do that we'll hear more from them on exactly how they want to go through with that deployment.
And again they're going to be putting in spectrum bands for essentially 4G that are going to be much much higher frequency than some they're already using today and eventually that bodes for a denser network even for Sprint when they're ready to make those investments.
So I think I'll stop there and turn it over to Tom.
Yeah sure.
On the second question relative to small cells we have about 300 into our DAS systems we have just over 30 ODAS systems over 20 000 rooftop rights that are available for small cell and macro cell activity.
Those comprise about 6% of our AMT Domestic Rental and Management revenue.
And as I mentioned we generated just over 30% excluding the amortization.
From a tenancy perspective on the venue-based assets we have about 2.3 tenants per tower or per node.
Gross margin is in the 75% range versus the ODAS which as we've said before is much lower at the 1.1 50% kind of margin levels.
But I think strategically we continue to think that in most areas in the U.S.
the macro towers are the optimal transmission points.
We believe cost and technology prohibitive outside of dense urban areas to use small cells to any great degree just because of siting costs you need to run fiber each node hand off issues things like that.
However as we've said in dense urban areas with population densities of 10 000 per square mile we think that small cells can make sense.
And the key point though is you can make a multi-tenant model out of it and manage the technology risk and higher cost associated with the ownership of active electronics and fiber at those kinds of levels.
Our conclusion thus far has been that the multi-tenant model where you can earn good long-term economic returns exist more so in indoor DAS types of installations.
And as a result we've got those 300 indoor DAS systems in the U.S.
and another 100 internationally.
So our ODAS presence is a lot smaller because we just haven't found the returns there to be as compelling relative to all the other investment opportunities that we have.
So we continue to participate meaningfully in small cells but are really careful to make sure that we're investing capital where we can find a multi-tenant model.
Hopefully that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much for the incremental color.
Yeah.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks a lot guys.
I know you have a lot of different levers that you can pull on the AFFO growth but it seems can you continue to set the growth for the next three years to five years while you're de-leveraging at the same time? Maybe you can just talk about some of the dynamics where you think the EBITDA margins can go and what acquiring land underneath and extending out the leases does for the AFFO growth? Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tim it's Jim.
I'll just some provide some headlines and let Tom take up some of the more detailed discussion.
But we're striving for double-digit AFFO for share growth over the long-term.
We've been able to deliver that consistently over the last decade or so.
And we'll strive to do that going forward in the future.
And I think Tim if you look historically at what we've done we've been able to demonstrate that.
That's clearly our aspirational goal.
In quarter in quarter out there could be some fluctuations on that over the long-term that's exactly what we're striving to do.
And there are a number of elements to it.
As I've said before we kind of walk and chew gum at the same time because we're constantly re-investing our business in terms of acquiring new assets that are providing future opportunities for growth.
We look at things on an AFFO per share basis because to the extent that those opportunities don't exist for future investments that don't meet our own internal hurdle requirements then we will return that cash back to shareholders and that obviously will take shares out of the market and provide an opportunity to increase AFFO per share that way.
But that is our goal.
I mean we have the opportunity now of being able to invest in many different markets.
And so we're not limited to just investing in one market.
And so we have a broad array of looking at where we can create the most net present value.
And I think we have the engine working.
We have a really good machine here in terms of being able to manage through that process.
Our R&amp;D is really in the value that we have in our contracts.
That's really where we're able to create the value.
We have a long-term visibility on that because the contracts are so long.
So we continue to hone in on things like SG&amp;A to make sure that we're leveraging that as best as we possibly can.
It's the beauty of the model that when you do bring on that incremental dollar of revenue you're – like we've been able to demonstrate you're bringing $0.90 of that dollar down to the gross margin line.
So that's a wonderful thing that we've been able to do on a global basis.
And again it comes to the quality assets but more importantly even to the quality of the contracts and the quality of the relationships that we have with our customers on a global basis.
So that's what we do day in and day out to try to leverage the portfolios that we have and leverage the assets and the people that we've got in the business to make the right kinds of investment decisions in terms of systems and all those boring operational things that we do behind the curtain to make sure that we really can continue that kind of growth.
So long answer saying that's our plan that's our goal and that's what Jim and I do and as well as the entire executive team do every day.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> But higher leverage clearly helps that growth a bit and your cost of debt is probably half what your cost of equity is.
So would you think about keeping debt up more this five times to six times level instead of going down to three times to four times? No I think Tim the way we would put that into context is as our business demonstrates the stable growth and the outperformance over a long period of time and rating agencies and others in the debt market get a better and better understanding of that and we get more opportunity to expand our leverage.
We will but we do want to keep our investment grade rating along the way because we've done our own regression analysis to say when capital markets are tight asset prices are lowest and when we can get access to capital and other people can't that's when we make some of our best long-term transactions.
So we're going to try to keep demonstrating the stability of the business and maybe get a little more headroom from the rating agencies and others in the market.
But our goal (44:06) we've got great access to capital and maintaining a solid investment grade is probably the best way to do that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for the color.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut from Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
If possible I'd love to hear a little bit more about Mexico.
Obviously Tom during your prepared remarks yesterday and today for that matter you talked about 10% or double-digit growth.
And just like to hear a little bit more about what's going on in Mexico.
Obviously it's a pretty big international holding for you.
You mentioned the MLA with AT&amp;T.
Any additional color there and just who else is building and what your expectations are I guess over the next year or two years? Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey Jonathan it's Jim.
First of all it's important to point out that AT&amp;T is our biggest customer not only in the U.S.
globally and now also in Mexico.
So we have an excellent I think business relationship with AT&amp;T across the board.
There's always things to talk about on contracts and such but what we've done in the U.S.
has determined a way to have mutually beneficial contractual arrangements with AT&amp;T especially in periods where it's growing its network rapidly.
And so we've replicated the same sort of arrangement with AT&amp;T in Mexico which is again over half of our revenue base in the country.
And let me just speak to that for one more minute and then I'll turn it over to Tom to add some more of the data behind it.
So we have a unified master lease agreement now with AT&amp;T covers all of our site leases under the previous Iusacell and Nextel agreements and extends all of those leases for 14 years which is a really nice long time horizon to have a guaranteed revenue stream from all those leases.
This agreement also guarantees our company certain levels of new business from AT&amp;T Mexico over the next several years with some potential upside on top of that depending on how active they think they need to get in the network and again we believe it's going to be mutually beneficial to American Tower and AT&amp;T.
And it also specifically for our customer provides access and flexibility for them regarding all of our Mexico assets to help efficiently accelerate their network upgrade strategy.
We want to be their partner in that.
So I also wanted to note that with their acquisition of DIRECTV AT&amp;T is now not only our top five new business customer in the U.S.
and Mexico but it's also in the third quarter in the top five in Brazil Colombia and Peru as well.
So that's demonstrating the expanding geographic scope of our partnership with that particular company and it's another example of us having global multitenant high level carrier relationships that can really extend around the world in some cases and drive stable revenue growth for the long-term and in this case again 14-year kind of expansion.
Tom? Yeah.
No just a couple additional facts I think Jonathan on it.
I mean Jim walked through the presence – our customer presence on our towers and the percentage of revenue.
AT&amp;T represents a significant piece of it Telefónica represents about 20% 21% and AT&amp;T up in the 60% level.
As we've mentioned in the past the organic core growth has picked up nicely now we're at double-digit core organic growth.
As that market has come out of a period of a couple of years where because of some of the – I think the regulatory environment there has been as I said before a little bit sleepy.
And so now we're starting to see a pickup of growth in that market as the carriers as Jim mentioned are deploying 4G and I think gets us cautiously optimistic in terms of the growth that we would expect to come from that market going forward.
90% wireless penetration only 35% smartphone penetration 45% 3G and 4G penetration a $10 to $11 ARPU.
I think the LTE investments as we mentioned are still very much in the early stages.
CapEx down there is still in the 15% to 20% range and we believe will be higher given what we've heard AT&amp;T and América Móvil announced publicly.
We believe like Brazil that the market needs twice the number of towers to support 4G over the long-term.
And so as I mentioned the team has done really nice – I think really well in terms of managing the portfolio that we've had down there.
It's grown significantly.
We're building towers for our customers in the marketplace.
It's our second largest Latin American market probably res (49:03) in the $300 million $350 million range.
So it's a sizable market for us.
And I think it's really going to contribute nicely to our overall core organic growth over the next several years.
Thanks guys for taking the question.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
I have two questions.
One is on your MLA with AT&amp;T in the United States.
My understanding is that that's going to be expiring soon.
And that at least more recently you've benefited from that MLA in terms of growth you recognized from AT&amp;T despite lower activity from them.
And I guess my question is if you don't renew that MLA with them as we go into 2016 what's the potential impact on the revenue to which you recognize from them without that MLA? The second question is on international escalators.
Can you just remind us what percentage of your international escalators are tied to CPI-type benchmarks? What that average rate has been in 2015 and based on where rates are now what that rate could be in 2016? Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Colby it's Jim.
We don't speak to the specific timing in terms of master lease agreements but in general just to say you know the concept that these holistic agreements have a period of years during which there's a lot of flexibility as I mentioned earlier and what the carrier can do.
There are limitations to equipment rights and other limitations within those.
But at a certain point those widely available rights will then revert back to retail model if you will which is an individual application for every single thing that the carrier wants to do.
And we just go back to business as usual or pre-holistic practice which is we'll price that application and we'll individually negotiate it and we'll end up getting our revenue that way.
So the concept is that as long as there's demand we'll get nice revenue growth from the same customer whether it's holistic or not.
What the holistic does is reduces any kind of downward risk over a period of time.
And there's quite a few years to run on the individual site leases with AT&amp;T well beyond the point where that switchover might happen.
And again – so we're not speaking to the progress and negotiation the exact timing of when these things happen.
But that is the general concept.
And I think that AT&amp;T is going to again be competitive in the U.S.
market.
It's one of their – it's not their core business one of their top core businesses in the corporation.
And we expect them to be trying to capture as much of that rising demand for data as they can within their financial plan.
And just let me add Colby let me be really clear.
The master lease agreement is not expiring okay? There are certain elements that Jim talked about that change over that period of time but the MLA is not expiring.
So I just want to make sure that you understand – that you clearly understood that.
Because I also saw that in some write-ups and I just wanted to be very very clear on that.
With regards to the escalators about 90% of our revenue international markets is tied to inflation.
And in each of those markets there are CPI indices that are used for determining what that inflation would be and how that then would impact the ongoing leases and the revenue stream in those markets.
And that happens throughout the year whenever that lease was originally put on the base.
So it won't all happen as of January 1 there are some caps floors maxes on that.
But we think it's a very good way for us to be able to minimize the impacts of that.
I'll also mention that we also have similar types of escalators on our land okay? So it's not just the revenue that we have it on.
It's also on the land costs.
But just to give you a sense even in the third quarter our escalators in our international markets was probably about 4.5%.
So it clearly provides some benefits and we would expect given the levels of inflation over the – that we've seen over the last 18 months – 12 months to 18 months that we would start to see some of that benefit as we have in 2015.
But I think we'll see even probably a higher level of impact in 2016.
Just one real quick follow-up to that.
Are you hitting some of those caps? You mentioned that there's caps and floors.
Are you hitting some of those caps now or have you been this year? Yeah I don't have the details in front of me Colby.
But sure there's probably a situation where we have actually hit some of those caps.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Ric.
Hey Ric.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Speaking of América Móvil so we were down in Mexico this week for their Investor Day.
One of the things they talked about is diversifying their business both geographically and also the funding on their balance sheet as far as where they borrow the money.
You guys also obviously a large global infrastructure leasing provider diversification.
So kind of two prongs to the question.
One do you have a target mix of how you'd like to diversify U.S.
versus international and where those international baskets might go? And then on the funding side most of your existing balance sheet is I think in U.S.
dollars still.
Can you update us a little bit about your thoughts as far as how funding this diversification as you – I think Tom mentioned – continue to invest where it makes financial sense? So just kind of the diversification and funding question.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'll talk to the diversification Ric.
We have said a number of times in the past we don't have a specific revenue split target for U.S.
versus our international markets.
But just as a reference because of the size the pricing structures the strength of the contracts that Tom already mentioned the U.S.
still delivers 75% of the operating income of the company right? So that's going to be a very big flywheel that itself grows over a long period of time.
And there's a smaller flywheel of international operating income that's going to grow faster for a longer period of time.
And so those two things actually complement each other.
And we don't have a specific target of how the math ought to work in say year 5 or year 10.
But what we will continue to do is look both in the U.S.
and outside for investment opportunities that meet our investment criteria right which is meaningful AFFO per share growth opportunity at asset prices that give us a good opportunity to also keep ROIC stable and rising over time as well okay? That's how we make those investment decisions.
The benefit of having the global aperture as we look at those investment decisions are it gives us a lot more things to look at.
Many of those things will meet our investment criteria and we'll go through with them.
A couple of those have happened already this year in the case of TIM Airtel and now Viom.
We also had that aperture open in the domestic side and we made a very significant agreement with Verizon as everybody knows earlier this year.
And then there's a lot of things we don't have to do because we have the wide aperture.
There was a couple of other carrier deals that didn't meet our asset pricing objective and you didn't see us win those.
There's many international deals because we have again both sides of the street to play on that we don't take because we don't think we have to take them to grow inorganically.
So I think those are the benefits of having the global team in place the track record these multinational customer relationships.
The diversification will naturally happen because as you know 60% of the sites – and it'll be greater next year contingent on our Viom closing – are outside the U.S.
And they're going to grow faster and longer.
So this is naturally going to evolve over time but there aren't any targets.
Tom? Yeah.
And I would just add Ric I think from a capital allocation perspective because we do look at cost of capital on a risk adjusted basis it's where we can create the highest levels of net present value.
And that's what the investment committee within our business focuses on.
And so we can create more net present value in one market versus another that's where we'll allocate our dollars.
And as I said it's largely due to the fact that we look at everything on a risk adjusted basis.
And relative to the second question from a funding perspective we have less than $500 million invested today.
Clearly our goal where it makes financial sense to raise more capital locally.
We will be pro forma for the Viom transaction upwards of $1 billion to $1.5 billion of local country financing given the fact that that $800 million to $900 million of debt on that business is all local currency with local banks local bank debt at this point in time.
So there will be $1 billion $1.5 billion of debt invested internationally.
And Leah and the entire Treasury group continues to look at opportunities to invest in local markets where it makes sense.
So we'll continue to do that continue to and raise cash locally as well as look at all other kinds of opportunities where we can actually raise capital.
Inc.</span></strong> I think in the past you've also given us some kind of growth or return hurdles as you look at the different regions of the world.
Can you update us on what those hurdle rates were? And given the recent FX pressure out there have they modified at all? Yeah they changed slightly.
But they still are in the 7% to 20% range depending upon the market depending upon the region.
And the rates will impact it as well as local country betas risk adjusted yields.
There are a lot of things as you know that go into those formulas.
Local country borrowing rates also becomes a critical piece of it.
They're still in that kind of that 7% to 20% range.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you carve out Africa versus Brazil versus others for us at all? Yeah if you take a look at EMEA and from a region it'll go from – depending if you talk about a South Africa probably in the 12% to 13% range up to a market like Nigeria where you're talking high teens.
Ghana Uganda high teens there.
If you take a look at the risk adjusted element of it it's probably 1 200 basis points versus what it is in the United States.
Down in Latin America it – depending upon if you're talking a market like Chile to Colombia it can be in the 12% to 15% range 14% range.
And India is probably – Asia some of the markets that we're looking there but particularly India is probably in that 11% to 13% range.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much guys.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Two questions.
First can you give us some thoughts on churn and decommissioning payments in 2016? And then second Tom you just mentioned India.
What's the potential at this point to buy more towers in India? I assume this gives you the scale you're looking for but anything going forward? And as you said you won't need to raise equity to stay below 5 times at the end of 2016.
Is that a fair way to look at it or is there something else – another dynamic we should be thinking about? Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's Jim Phil.
I'll just speak to India strategy first and turn it over to Tom here.
We're going to be very very focused on the Viom transaction for the next 6 months to 18 months probably between regulatory review integration systems et cetera.
And so I think that will be our focus strategically.
Now we'll certainly keep our doors open and for discussions between now and then.
But I find it difficult for us to contemplate another major asset acquisition in the midst of integrating Viom and combining our current business with it in the near-term.
On the decommissioning side at this point we expect a more normalized year in terms of decommissioning revenue in 2016.
As we previously said we would still expect to record $20 million $22 million in revenue under a multiyear agreement that we have in place with one of our carriers.
But the incremental level of decommissioning revenue which is around $15 million $17 million that we expect to record in 2015 may not recur in 2016 Phil.
And on the capital raising side or on the equity side we'll be looking to – once we get through all of the regulatory review in India this will close in the – we anticipate in the middle of 2016.
And we'll look at that time just in terms of where are the margins where the EBITDA is what kind of EBITDA performance we've had in our existing business a lot of different elements Phil to determine what our capital raising plans would do.
As you know the good news is that – and by the way as well as the debt balance that we would be assuming with the Viom transaction.
So I think at that point in time we'll have a much clearer notion in terms of where and what the capital structure would look like.
We're committed to getting down to that 5 times by the year end 2016.
We think we have a lot of products available to us to be able to ensure that.
And we're really excited about the opportunities with that Viom transaction and where the EBITDA levels may be as well as where the EBITDA levels are going to be in our existing business.
So a long way of saying we'll have a much better sense I think as we go into 2016 in terms of what that structure might look like.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of David Barden from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Just two if I could.
Maybe Tom last quarter you guys gave us some data about the lease upgrade on the Verizon tower portfolio being about 900 lease applications.
It would be great to just get an update as to what kind of velocity we've been seeing on that portfolio domestically.
And then second just quickly on the organic side internationally could you give us some color as to what you think Brazil as an organic apples and apples year-over-year situation might look like in 2016 or at least what you're base lining? Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So David good morning.
It's Jim here.
So on Verizon towers we've actually got almost 5 000 third party applications on 11 500 sites.
Now it's going to take months and in some cases a number of quarters to get those applications through.
It's a mix of co-locations and amendments all kinds of activity there.
It will play out over literally the next 6 months to 12 months as far as real revenue opportunities that flow from those many applications.
But we already have commenced new business in process where we think we'll end the year with about $800 000 a month of incremental monthly revenue based on the new applications we will have processed by then.
So that's a really great start.
It's in line with our business plan and we've got a huge pipeline of applications as we've opened up these towers for business so to speak.
Tom? Yeah.
And then on the Brazil question we'll come out and give more color David in the beginning of next year but historically last year in 2014 we were growing in probably the 17% to 19% range if you will from a core organic perspective in Brazil.
It's down a little bit this year in more in the 13% to 14% range which would – I would hope would be more probably more of a typical run rate going forward.
But as I said we'll be – our customers are investing heavily as Jim talked to in the marketplace.
There definitely is a need to double the amount of sites that are actually in the marketplace.
I think the regulators down there are driving that kind of requirement on the carriers themselves and so we're very bullish in terms of what we would expect some of the recent transactions that we've done is giving us more of a metro type of a coverage range.
So we would hope that that would help even stimulate some additional capital and organic growth on our portfolio.
Awesome.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Can you just talk a little bit about FirstNet? It seems like we're moving forward towards an RFP process and actual network deployment finally.
So what sort of discussions have you been able to have and get some visibility into what the opportunity might be here and the timing around that? And then in Brazil and also elsewhere there's been a lot of talk about carrier consolidation.
Can you just talk about the tradeoff between fewer companies building but also stronger financial condition and how that plays out and what – in markets like Brazil what your lease term remaining are? Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Simon it's Jim here again.
As far as FirstNet there's definitely progress on schedule and RFPs being put together.
There's going to be upwards of a six-month review process and the goal of the first-step management is to choose not only its partners but its actual structure of operation and it's going to be something that we're going to participate in as closely as we can.
We don't know how this is really going to play out in the end yet who is going to participate as far as operators OEMs other kinds of prime contractors that could get involved.
So we're going to keep our options open and deal across the board with potential teammates as this evolves and with FirstNet to the extent we can deal with them directly.
So there's definitely an opportunity here.
There is a need of a good – a better public safety network of 4G base one in this country.
FirstNet is going drive that and what we've planned of course to participate in it although we can't assess the value of the actual lease stream down the road yet.
And then as far as consolidation risk in Brazil the tradeoff for us has always been as you pointed out we need at least three we think well-funded successful mobile operators in the market to get the optimal long-term outcome for our company.
And so whether it's five counting Nextel in Brazil today or four or three over the 10-year to 20-year time horizon as long as they're funded in a way that they can drive 4G penetration to 100% and then get to that 2 gigabyte 4 gigabyte 6 gigabyte a month usage level it's going to be terrifically constructive for the tower business.
Our overlaps in Brazil happened to be really modest.
TIM and Oi are the biggest cycle on the rumor scale I guess as far as potential consolidation.
And if they were to merge just as an example we don't expect this but just to give you again context the overlap on our towers in Brazil is only 1% of consolidated revenues.
And we have eight years to nine years on average left on these contracts.
So we don't view industry consolidation in Brazil as a material threat to the business certainly in the mid- to long-term it wouldn't affect it I don't think.
And do you get the sense that the current financial condition and maybe the market that there is a lot more they'd like to do but they just don't have the financial capability right now? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not necessarily because if you look at the big investors in mobile networks in Brazil today it's these major multi-national companies right? So it's Telefónica Telecom Italia América Móvil.
Actually Nextel is investing more now that it's really focused on Brazil.
And Oi has scaled back a bit.
But again they're being competitive.
So these are major multi-national mobile operators that I believe as we do view Brazil as an outstanding long-term market.
And they're going to continue – and they are investing and continue to invest I think to make sure that they maintain and maybe even grow their market share there.
Great.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:30 Eastern Time today through November 13.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 372681.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 372681.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Great.
Thank you everyone for joining the call today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the American Tower Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Ms.
Leah Stearns.
Please go ahead.
Treasurer and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you good morning.
Thank you for joining American Tower's fourth quarter earnings conference call.
We have posted a presentation which we will refer to throughout our prepared remarks under the Investor Relations tab on our website.
Our agenda for this morning's call will be as follows: First I will provide some brief highlights from our financial results.
Then Jim Taiclet our Chairman President and CEO will provide a brief update on our strategy before Tom Bartlett our Executive Vice President and CFO provides a more detailed review of our financial and operational performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 as well as our full year outlook for 2016.
After these comments we will open up the call for your questions.
Before I begin I would like to remind you that this call will contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Examples of these statements include those regarding our expectations regarding future growth including our 2016 outlook foreign currency exchange rates and future operating performance technology and industry trends anticipated closings of acquisitions and their anticipated contributions to our financial results and any other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts.
You should be aware that certain factors may affect us in the future and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the risk factors set forth in this morning's earnings release those set forth in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as updated in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2015 and in our other SEC filings.
We urge you to consider these factors and remind you that we undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this call to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
As we disclosed in our press release this morning as the size of our international segment as a proportion of our total business continues to grow especially in light of our pending acquisition in India we have decided to change our reportable segments.
As a result we now operate in five segments.
U.S.
property Asia property EMEA property Latin America property and Services.
Additionally we have simplified our definition of full year organic core growth to be the average of the quarterly organic core growth rates in the year.
This includes no change to the calculation methodology for the quarterly organic core growth metric.
And now turning to our financial results.
During the quarter our property revenue grew over 21% to $1.25 billion.
Our adjusted EBITDA grew over 21% to approximately $802 million.
Our adjusted funds from operations increased by nearly 23% to approximately $542 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders increased by nearly 22% to $206 million or $0.49 per basic and $0.48 per diluted common share.
From a full year perspective our property revenue grew by nearly 17% to $4.68 billion.
Our adjusted EBITDA grew by over 15% to nearly $3.07 billion and adjusted funds from operations increased 18.5% to approximately $2.15 billion.
Net income attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders declined by $206 million from the prior year.
The primary drivers of the year-over-year decline in net income were the one-time $93 million cash tax charge as part of our previously announced GTP REIT tax election the $74 million loss as a result of the retirement of our 7% senior notes and approximately $71 million in negative FX impacts from the re-measurement of our intercompany note.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Leah and good morning to everyone on the call.
American Tower's 2015 results reconfirmed yet again the fundamental strength of the tower business model the value of our portfolio diversification strategy across geographies our focus on partnering with the leading mobile network operator tenants in the U.S.
and around the world and our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
Before introducing Tom who will provide the details of our 2015 performance and 2016 outlook I'll begin with a very brief update on the company's overall strategic direction which should then leave plenty of time for your questions following Tom's remarks.
For many years now we have consistently and relentlessly focused on advancing American Tower's leadership in communications real estate.
And we believe that the resulting long-term performance of the business tells a compelling story.
We have been able to drive double-digit core growth in property revenue adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share for six consecutive years now while at the same time growing our common stock dividend at well over 20% annually since introducing it in 2012.
We anticipate continuing to build on this track record which remains based on our company's long-standing three strategic pillars.
In 2015 we achieved a number of accomplishments to position the company for future success in each of the three pillars.
Our first strategic pillar is building the asset scale to exceed our return on investment goals in select major markets.
In this we made tremendous progress in 2015.
In our home U.S.
market American Tower secured the exclusive right to lease or acquire nearly 11 500 sites from Verizon Communications.
We also acquired over 4700 sites from Airtel in Nigeria and nearly 5500 sites from Telecom Italia in Brazil.
We also built over 3 000 towers and DAS networks across our markets.
And in India the largest free market democracy in Asia we have signed a transformational deal with Tata and its current partners in Viom which will take our tower count there from 15 000 to over 57 000.
This transaction is strategic for ATC not simply because it increases our tower count but because it enables us to build even deeper business relationships with high quality multinational mobile network operators such as Airtel Vodafone Idea Tata Reliance and Aircel which will all be bringing the mobile Internet to India's 1.2 billion people.
Our second strategic pillar is to focus on operational excellence to maximize the cash flow generated from each and every property.
Among the most significant achievements in 2015 delivered by our operating units were containment of churn in our U.S.
business due to skilled master lease contracting the rapid and effective integration of assets in the cases of Verizon and TIM transactions and the efficient establishment of our new organization in Nigeria.
This new market staffed with both experienced ATC veterans and local professionals delivered outstanding performance in new leasing business and in power and fuel management well in excess of its original business plan.
And in India our sales and operational teams generated the strongest tenant leasing growth we've seen in that market in a number of years.
Our third and final strategic pillar is to maintain a strong balance sheet in order to have efficient and consistent access to the markets to support our capital allocation program.
Given the company's long and consistent record of operational performance and financial discipline American Tower was able to maintain its investment grade rating and thereby efficiently and effectively access a broad and deep range of capital sources.
In 2015 we executed capital markets transactions which included refinancings and new issuances totaling $21 billion in order to fund our acquisition pipeline while at the same time reducing the average cost of our debt and increasing its average duration.
In summary and as many of you may recall three years ago I laid out an aspirational goal to again double the size and performance of the business by 2017.
We have already more than doubled the number of assets we own or operate worldwide and pro forma for the Viom transaction will be at over 140 000.
At the same time throughout this portfolio expansion our investment evaluation discipline has enabled us to maintain a return on invested capital above 9%.
Despite adding primarily lower initial tenancy and cash flow sites to the base.
As a result on a currency neutral basis our outlook for 2016 implies that we will have more than doubled our AFFO per share by 12/31 which would be a year ahead of schedule which keeps us on a likely trajectory to achieve our aspirational objective on a reported basis by the end of the planning period in 2017.
With that I'll turn it over to Tom for a detailed review of our 2015 financial performance and our 2016 outlook.
Hey thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
The fourth quarter wrapped up another year of strong global organic core growth in revenue accretive acquisitions and new tower and DAS builds for American Tower.
As Jim just highlighted we believe that our success in 2015 has positioned us well for not only 2016 but also for many years to come.
But before we get into the details of our 2016 expectation let's dive into our operating results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2015.
So if you please turn to slide six we achieved strong growth in all of our key metrics in the fourth quarter.
Our total property revenue core growth was nearly 26% which included another solid quarter of organic core growth at over 7%.
As expected our U.S.
organic core growth was about 5.2% which excludes the positive impact of a one-time settlement of $7.8 million.
On a run rate basis organic growth was about 6% in the U.S.
for the quarter.
Internationally we generated organic core growth of over 12.5%.
Consistent with our revenue growth our adjusted EBITDA growth in the quarter was over 21% on a reported basis and over 26% on a core basis.
Likewise we converted the bulk of that adjusted EBITDA growth into AFFO with reported AFFO and AFFO per share growth of nearly 23% and over 15% respectively.
On a core basis AFFO growth was about 30%.
Moving on to slide seven our strong fourth quarter propelled us to exceed the high end of our previously issued outlook for property revenue resulting in reported growth of 17% or 23% on a core basis.
This revenue outperformance was driven by double-digit organic growth internationally and another year of solid activity in the U.S.
For the year in our U.S.
market our organic core growth was near the middle of our five-year average target range at about 6.6% excluding the positive impact of the one-time $7.8 million settlement received in the quarter.
Our international markets generated organic growth rates significantly in excess of that of the U.S.
coming in at nearly 11% on a consolidated basis.
Our Latin American markets generated organic core growth of over 10% where network investments remain a top priority despite some macroeconomic challenges.
In India we generated organic core growth of around 10% for the full year as large incumbent Indian wireless operators ramped their spending to support the deployment of new technologies and spectrum.
And in our fastest growing region EMEA organic core growth was over 13%.
Our strong finish to 2015 is a prime example of the strength of our diversified growth strategy which leverages the benefits of operating in 13 different countries where our top dozen large multinational wireless customers are deploying a variety of different wireless technologies over different spectrum bands at different times.
We believe that this diversification will support steady rates of growth for many years to come.
In complementing our organic growth was the impact of the 22 000 sites we added from Verizon Airtel and TIM which contributed about 11% to our core growth rate for the year.
Activity on these sites is right where we expected it to be and we are especially encouraged by the performance of our Nigerian assets which are already significantly exceeding our expectations for new business demand and are poised for strong growth going forward.
2015 was also a record year in terms of international new build activity with nearly 3100 new towers completed by our global teams which generated day one NOI yields of nearly 11%.
In addition we built more than 50 new DAS networks largely indoor globally in 2015 which generated day one of NOI yields of over 12%.
Moving on to slide eight our solid revenue growth coupled with tight cost controls resulted in strong margin performance across our business.
Our gross margin excluding pass-through for the year remained above 80% despite the addition of over 25 000 new sites with an average initial tenancy of just 1.4 times.
This was the result of our strong organic gross margin conversion rate of about 97%.
In fact adjusting for the impact of our recent acquisitions our gross margin would have expanded to almost 83%.
In addition our adjusted EBITDA margin was essentially flat year-over-year despite the impact of our acquisitions as we recognized the benefits of our global scale.
And excluding the impact of acquisitions we would have grown our adjusted EBITDA margin to 66.5%.
Additionally cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue declined over 40 basis points year-over-year to 8.6% demonstrating a trend which we believe will continue.
Our goal is to drive this metric below 8% into the future.
Our adjusted EBITDA and AFFO growth in 2015 is detailed on slide nine.
Our teams delivered double-digit growth in adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share for the sixth consecutive year despite the recent volatility in the currency markets.
Adjusted EBITDA grew nearly 16% or nearly 23% on a core basis to approximately $3.1 billion.
Reported AFFO grew by over 18% and 27% on a core basis and AFFO per share grew by about 12% to $5.08 per share.
This was driven by a strong adjusted EBITDA to AFFO conversion ratio of over 80% and like property revenue both adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share exceeded the high end of our previously issued outlook.
Turning to slide 10 let's now take a look at our expectations for 2016.
In 2016 at the midpoint of our outlook we are projecting property revenue growth of about 20% on a reported basis and about 22% on a core basis.
These numbers reflect our sizable new business pipeline coming into the year and our expectation that the positive demand trends underlying our 2015 organic growth will continue in 2016.
For example we expect international organic core growth and revenue to accelerate to just under 12%.
As in 2015 we are poised to benefit from the diversification we have built in our asset base with the acceleration of site leasing activity in markets like Mexico and India being offset by some moderation in Brazil.
Our 2016 international organic growth rate is also expected to benefit from rising escalators linked to the increasing local market inflation in many of our markets.
Not only do these escalators help drive organic growth but they also help offset foreign exchange translation effects over the long term.
In the U.S.
we expect organic core growth in revenue to be in the mid-5% range.
As we have discussed previously there are a few items impacting this rate in 2016.
While aggregate new business commencements are expected to be up year-over-year the pacing of new business commencement activity in 2016 is expected to be distributed more evenly throughout the year while it was more front-end loaded in 2015 which has a negative impact on the growth rate as you would expect.
Second we expect our decommissioning revenue to be essentially flat year-over-year which also puts pressure on the growth rate but is largely offset by less churn forecasted in the U.S.
for the year.
So while the rate is down for the year we are excited about the increased new business activity on our portfolio in the U.S.
as we finish up the year.
On a cash run rate basis as of year-end 2016 which normalizes for the impact of timing differences and non-run rate items we expect growth to be approximately 6% in the U.S.
Consequently on a global consolidated basis our overall organic core growth rate is expected to be about 7% for the year.
The components of our property revenue expectations for 2016 are outlined on slide 11.
In addition to the 7% or so of organic core growth that I just spoke about we expect our new assets to contribute an additional 15% of core property revenue growth.
This includes our pending Viom transaction which we expect to contribute about $595 million to revenue during the year assuming a contribution of nine months from the portfolio.
New property revenue in 2016 also includes an incremental $265 million associated with the Verizon TIM and Airtel assets we acquired in 2015.
Bringing the total incremental new asset growth in 2016 to about $860 million.
About $280 million of this incremental $860 million in revenue is pass-through related.
Non-core items are forecasted to offset growth by about 6% and including an expected step down in straight line revenue of about $50 million and by foreign currency translation effects of around $180 million on our tenant revenues.
Moving on to slide 12 we expect to convert our strong revenue growth into another year of double-digit adjusted EBITDA and AFFO per share growth.
Our consolidated adjusted EBITDA is expected to grow over 13% for the year or about 21% on a core basis at the midpoint.
This reflects cash SG&amp;A as a percentage of total revenue of just 8% which is down over half a percentage point from 2015 levels.
While our consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin for the year is expected to be down around 3.5% from 2015 levels this is entirely attributable to the addition of new assets which initially have lower tenancy and cash flow but are poised to drive strong growth for the business well into the future.
Excluding the impact of our new assets our 2016 adjusted EBITDA margin will be growing by about 2% at the midpoint to over 66%.
Meanwhile AFFO and AFFO per share growth are expected to be about 12% and over 10% respectively on a reported basis and core AFFO is expected to grow approximately 18%.
This includes strong contributions from our recently closed Verizon TIM Brazil and Airtel Nigeria transactions as well as our pending Viom acquisition.
At the midpoint of our outlook 2016 would represent the ninth straight year of double-digit AFFO per share growth for American Tower.
Turning to page 13 we expect to maintain our disciplined capital allocation strategy to drive growth and improve yields across the business in 2016.
Our first capital allocation priority continues to be our dividend which is grown by an average of 26% since our REIT conversion just five years ago.
In 2016 subject to the discretion of our board we expect the dividend to continue to grow at least 20% and as a result we expect our payout ratio as a percent of AFFO to increase from current levels.
Next we expect to selectively deploy capital to build between 2 500 and 3 000 new sites.
Primarily in our international markets where we generated day one new build ROIs of nearly 11% in 2015.
In addition we expect to continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities while at the same time maintaining our path towards achieving a five times net leverage ratio by the end of the year.
We currently expect to be able to achieve our deleveraging goals by the fourth quarter including the impact of funding our Viom acquisition with borrowings under our revolver and cash on hand.
This is a result of strong growth in adjusted EBITDA as well as our continued repayment of debt throughout the year from our cash flow from operations.
Moving on to slide 14 illustrating the effectiveness of our capital allocation strategy and driving growth we have a long history of generating double-digit growth rates in all of our key financial metrics.
As a result in just four years as you can see in the slide we have nearly doubled our property revenue and adjusted EBITDA and more than doubled our AFFO while at the same time growing our REIT distribution 26% on average each year since its inception.
The combination of share price appreciation resulting from this strong financial performance and the growth of our REIT distribution has delivered our shareholders a total return of over 100% since 2011.
Turning to slide 15 our capital allocation has also driven significant improvements in NOI yields across the business.
As you can see our investments in lower initial tenancy sites are paying off with 300 basis points to 600 basis points of yield improvement over a four-year period.
This type of NOI yield growth supports our ability to generate the cash flows we need to simultaneously fund our rapidly-growing dividend as well as continue to invest in new growth assets.
We expect to be able to drive similar NOI yield expansion on our recently acquired portfolios which will further enhance our distribution potential for the long term.
Moving on to slide 16 and in closing we generated strong operating results in 2015 highlighted by another year of double-digit AFFO per share growth while also significantly enhancing the company's long-term strategic positioning in several key markets through selective acquisitions and new site construction.
Further we meaningfully reduced our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue while at the same time boosting our common stock dividend by nearly 30%.
In 2016 we are focused on strategic priorities which support our vision of being a premier independent owner operator and developer of communications real estate globally while driving similarly strong financial results.
Operationally we are focused on our daily execution including driving strong growth across our existing asset base and leveraging the scale we've built across our global business to drive margin improvement.
Strategically we are taking a significant step towards achieving greater scale in India with the pending Viom transaction which we expect to close by the end of the first quarter.
And the integration of that portfolio will be a significant focus for our management team.
As a result of this transaction we expect to end the year with over 145 000 sites globally with annualized revenues of just under $6 billion.
Further we remain on track to get back to five times net leverage or below by year-end while maintaining our leading investment grade balance sheet.
This path contemplates the funding of our pending transactions as well as the capital spending outlook that we issued this morning.
So taken together we believe that we are well-positioned to continue to generate meaningful AFFO per share growth in combination with the materially growing dividend.
As a result we expect to deliver a compelling total return to our stockholders for many years to come.
With that be happy to take your questions.
Operator? Our first question comes from the line of Batya Levi.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
I want to focus on the U.S.
organic growth as it is getting a lot of attention from the investors.
If you exclude non-run rate benefits that you had in 2015 it looks like growth is still in line with your long-term guidance 6% to 8% at the low-end.
You mentioned that there is some increased activity in the U.S.
Can you provide a bit more color on what you are seeing from the carriers and if you would still think that the long-term guide of 6% to 8% holds for the next few years? Thank you.
Well Batya this is Tom I'll start and Jim will talk more broadly about some of the customers.
You are right; that was the point I was trying to make.
Our year-end run rate that we had before is in that 6% – right in that 6% range.
As would you expect we also brought on the Verizon tower portfolio.
So you would expect us to be generating more new commencements that will end up the year.
But as I mentioned in my remarks it's just more evenly distributed throughout the year.
So as a result that has the impact of driving the overall growth rate down.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
And so broadly on deployments Batya we are sort of migrating to talking about markets in accordance with our new sort of geographically based segment reporting and so we'll just take the U.S.
in aggregate and basically the trend is still there of 30% 40% 50% CAGR expectation and the burden on the mobile network in the United States.
And with spectrum coming in at a sort of moderate rate over time and spectrum also being generally at higher frequencies with the exception of 600 Mhz which will probably come on board three years to four years from now sites are going to have to be closer together.
They are going to have to have more equipment on them and based on the topology and the population distribution in the United States macro towers are primarily the way to get that done.
And so as we had talked about in 2012 our five-year expectation was that 6% to 8% CAGR over that period of time in the U.S.
domestic organic core growth and we still see that as being fulfilled over this five-year period.
And we have had a couple of really outsized high years in the middle of the period and these last couple of years are on the lower side but the expectation we are completely confident is going to be fulfilled on a CAGR basis over the period.
Great.
One follow-up on that.
What we are hearing from the carriers is that they are looking to potentially add more alternative methods to their deployment and you have mentioned before that every technological update and replacement of old technology you see an upside to the overall load or rented space on the towers.
Are you seeing anything different right now in terms of the carrier activity or how they are negotiating with you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> When you look at the topologies and population densities where towers are the primary source of the infrastructure those places tend to be suburban rural and corridor type areas of transportation.
Dense urban and urban environments are not a tower heavy sort of environment because of the real estate costs existing for commercial and residential buildings are going to take that real estate.
Therefore you have rooftops primarily serving urban and dense urban.
So we are not in the dense urban environments.
Where it does make a lot more sense to install alternative technologies.
But in suburban corridor and rural environments where 95% of our tower base is located and 85% of the U.S.
population lives the traditional upgrade cycle that you described is still in place and will continue to still be in place over the next number of years we think.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Rozwadowski.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Good morning folks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey.
Inc.</span></strong> Dovetailing on those prior questions we have also had heard as some of these carriers look to augment capacity on their networks they do seem to be looking for ways and means to perhaps place less of an emphasis on the macro side in terms of investment.
And there has been some discussion that this could be a potential way to rethink their current contractual obligations with you folks.
Would love to hear your thought process around that type of process and discussions that are going on with the carriers.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our view and we have internal and external analysis that supports this is that in the environments that I described Amir that the macro tower site is going to make the most sense and the existing infrastructure base again adding additional equipment to existing tower sites is the most effective way to do this at any kind of scale.
So we still believe that's going to be the case.
If you look at spending on the radio access network based again on our internal and external analysis sort of our view is 95% or so of that radio access network spending is on the macro the tower base macro site scenarios and rooftops.
So again 5% on alternatives today.
We see that actually growing to 10% over the next number of years say four years to five years but that still leaves 95% of the RAN spending in the U.S.
in our view remaining on the tower sites.
It's the most effective and efficient way again we believe to continue to build up the 4G network that everyone is going to need to do things like voice-over-IP to do nice solid 4G video but using much higher spectrum bands.
The only way again tangibly and feasibly to do this in the field we believe – and where 85% of people live in the United States is still on the macro tower.
Yes there will be some increased spending mainly in dense urban and urban maybe 5% to 10% of the total RAN spending but we still see plenty of upsides for towers and long lease (34:08) on the business here in the United States.
Inc.</span></strong> And then if I may as a follow-up if we think about some of the contracts that you had in place the MLAs that you have in place I know that some have recently ended at least portions of them and there is always constant negotiations.
As some of these conversations have come up have the carriers tried to utilize some of these new network technologies as a means to renegotiate lower rates on some of these? And I know that there is one in particular that has brought that up as a potential means to do so.
And so any color around that would be helpful.
Well we don't discuss specific negotiations with specific carriers Amir; we never have.
But I think you could just turn to the results.
Our guidance this year shows double-digit AFFO per share growth almost two-thirds of our revenue is still coming from the United States.
I think the guidance speaks for itself as to what at least our view is of how networks are really going to get deployed in this country in 2016 and for the next number of years.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Amir that's clearly reflective of the activity that we have seen ending the year and beginning the year of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
You bet Amir.
Take care.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
So slide seven is interesting where you give the growth rate last year by region.
And if we were to look at 2016 are you expecting that LatAm is going to be roughly on par with Asia in terms of core organic growth and then EMEA still to kind of outpace the other two? How do you kind of think about regionally the organic core growth rates over the coming year? Then in the U.S.
I was interested in just what types of projects you are seeing either in your backlog or that you are expecting to see that would lead you to anticipate a second half ramp? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jon.
Overall as I mentioned before our international growth is going up by about 100 basis points on a 15 to 16 basis.
And there's a bit of a mix.
I'd see the LatAm we expect it to go up a bit overall.
And again that's reflective of moderation in Brazil but a bit of a pickup as you would expect as we expect in Mexico.
EMEA is also up a bit.
Again as we said it was our strongest – our fastest growing market if you will in 2015 and we expect it to be our fastest growing market again in 2016.
And India India is pretty flat.
It's right around that 10% level and we are optimistic about what we have seen coming out of the year in the fourth quarter.
It was up close to 11%.
So I'm hoping that there might be some upside actually in some of those growth rates.
And so overall as we mentioned before the 2015 consolidated growth rate was in that 7.5% to 8% and the 2016 is forecasted to be in that 7% range.
So hopefully that gives you a little color on how we expect the regions to pan out in 2016.
And then just before you turn to the U.S.
then so on India can you kind of refresh us on Viom versus non-Viom and how the leasing velocity might differ and just sort of the nature of activity on legacy American Tower versus Viom once that's under your belts? How qualitatively can we think about the leasing drivers for each of those sets of assets? Yeah we finished the year in India in fourth quarter 10% to 11% growth on a core organic basis in the market on our legacy business.
We expect to as I mentioned to close this transaction before the end of the quarter.
And so there will be an integration period that's going to be going on and the management going on for the balance of the year.
We are expecting consistent growth probably not in the first year at the same level that we have in our legacy business as you would expect but clearly going forward we expect it to be at that rate.
And as Jim mentioned it really changes the positioning that we have in the market relative to the relationships that we'll have with the major carriers in the market.
And so we would expect overall to be able to pick up the pace of both of those businesses going forward.
Thanks.
And then the second half ramp in the U.S.
if you can sort of comment on what you are seeing in your pipeline or what you expect to happen? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Again across the portfolio across the carriers largely what's happening is on one hand additional spectrum and additional equipment's being from an amendment basis placed on to existing contracted tower space.
And as you see AWS spectrum and now we are hearing about WCS spectrum even a higher band if you will having plans to be deployed in this country.
You are going to see those amendments continue and we've got a really nice pipeline of those already.
It does take a few weeks and months to get deployment schedules in place and equipment actually installed and billing but the pipeline is really strong as Tom said.
On the other hand as you go into these higher bands and you apply carrier aggregation and other approaches to adding those bands to your network ultimately you are going to need a more dense network sites closer together because as you go again higher up in bands you go shorter in effective radius.
And if you are trying to create a consistent customer experience and you want to use 700 MHz and 1.9 GHz in the handoff or even on the same transmission site you are going to have to design to that highest band.
And therefore sites ultimately are going to have to be closer together over time.
Again we have a pipeline of new leases as well as amendments and those leases are driven on one hand by the densification that I just described and also by some carriers also expanding their actual deployment footprint geographically based on the benefits they now see of a bigger customer base versus roaming.
So there are a couple of factors that are supporting the new lease side of the equation as well as the amendment side.
Makes sense.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
We have a question from Phil Cusick your line is open.
Hey guys thanks.
Let's dig into a little bit the Mexico and Brazil markets.
Can you talk about what is going on in those markets? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure I will give you an overview and if there's any more specifics we can address those in follow-up Phil.
Mexico is becoming a much more competitive mobile operator market with the new entrant AT&amp;T of course.
And our position in the country is the largest truly independent and operational provider of communication real estate in that country.
So we are well positioned to serve both the incumbents that are already there Telefonica and of course America Movil as well as AT&amp;T as it brings together the Nextel and Iusacell businesses and makes those networks much more robust.
So Mexico is a great environment for us.
We are incredibly well strategically positioned to take advantage of it.
And so as Tom said it's going to be a positive contributor to us this year.
Brazil is still strong.
Last year was actually quite robust as far as new leasing.
It's going to be robust in 2016 just not at the same level but there are four again very competitive well-funded mobile operators there.
Three of four – three of the four operators are multinational leaders.
Those are Telefonica and America Movil and Telecom Italia of course.
And Oi is sort of the country incumbent – the local country incumbent also with a very large market share.
So it's probably one of the most evenly-distributed market shares among major operators.
And then you have Nextel still operating with its higher ARPU postpaid business as well.
So five carriers competing I would say aggressively.
The macro environment is a little unsteady right now but these are companies that are taking I think a much longer view as well of that market.
200 million people large and fairly stable middle class.
Those of us that operate in that country have a pretty strong conviction that it is going to come out of its current situation eventually a much more healthier and stronger trajectory.
So we feel good about where we are at with Brazil.
The leasing is going to be robust.
Not as robust as last year though.
Yeah.
I would just add – just looking at kind of the core organic growth over the last three years.
Brazil in 2014 was generating core organic growth of about 15%.
In 2015 it was just over 12% and we are expecting about 11% in 2016.
So still very strong strong growth.
In Mexico though it's a different trend.
In Mexico in 2014 it was about 7% grew to 8.5% or so in 2015 and we expect it to be over 10% in 2016.
So again it just kind of demonstrates the diversification that we have in the marketplace and reflects the comments that Jim just mentioned.
If you look at Mexico the pace of upgrading networks from one of your competitors is that still accelerating and can it accelerate even further in 2017 as they get everything together? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We don't comment on specific competitors' state of business or readiness.
I think you should go to Telesites I believe you are referring to for their results.
Tom was pretty specific in laying out our results.
And Mexico is going to be a very strong contributor to our nearly 12% core organic growth rate for the coming year.
So I'd just invite you to ask them what their plans are and we are going to continue to operate our business plan.
We are very confident that our sites are lease ready right now.
We have been operating there for well over 10 years going on almost 15 years.
And so we're ready and open for business and we are getting lots of it and the competition can come and we will focus on our business.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick housekeeping questions on Viom.
Since it is in your guidance are there any remaining approvals or financings or anything else that you need to accomplish in order to get the deal closed? Or is it mostly a back-end exercise at this point? And then you had broken out the contribution of revenue and EBITDA.
Are you expecting any material contribution to AFFO from Viom this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'll speak to the process and Tom can speak to the contribution Brett.
Good morning.
We have one final government approval that we're seeking and expecting.
The timing of that we can't necessarily control but we do feel that it's trending towards a near-term approval.
But until we receive it we can't really give you a specific.
But it's really essentially down to one remaining government approval and the other closing conditions are essentially met.
And relative to the deal accretion question Brett we put in place a capital structure to support all of the transactions that we've closed over the last 18 months.
So it's really difficult to isolate any particular transaction.
But if you take a look at kind of the EBITDA contribution that they are making coupled with then the incremental benefits from the other three transactions that we closed in 2015 we believe probably the AFFO per share contribution from these businesses is probably in the $0.15 $0.20 range.
Okay.
And then just another question and maybe I'm over-thinking this but I heard you guys refer to your focus on communications real estate a few times and not specifically wireless infrastructure you are now talking about property revenues not site revenues.
Should we be thinking that maybe you are looking more broadly than just traditional wireless infrastructure as you are looking to deploy capital or am I really just over-thinking your terminology? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Brett we are simply in the multi-tenant communication real estate business.
And in large part over the recent history of the mobile deployment and the industry that has been largely tower based.
We continue to seek other multi-tenant real estate opportunities in the communications space.
And I would also offer that we are in the multi-tenant small cell business.
At this point in time based on the spectrum involved the cost of deployment the difficulty – relative difficulty on the small cell side of managing the network and the higher operating costs for the carriers when it comes to actually siting costs and power electrical power and especially backhaul costs.
That's a modest part of at least our business today because on a multi-tenant basis our DAS business which we are very proud of actually is about 3% of our U.S.
tower operations revenue right now.
We'd love to grow that.
It is growing fast and 30% growth last year which was terrific.
Secondly we have rooftops which are also serving urban environments and are a multi-tenant offer and those are about another 3% Brett.
And then we have other multi-tenant offerings like generators and such at the sites which are about 1% of the U.S.
revenue base.
So all-in we are about 7% today in the U.S.
This is U.S.
revenue percentages in non-tower multi-tenant leasing and we would love to grow all portions of that but we are going go after the ones that we think have the best return and the best AFFO per share growth trajectory.
And that's why you see us in the proportions that we are today.
But we – those could be adjusted over time if the conditions for multi-tenant leasing improve because we will take full advantage of them when they do.
When you say adjusted you mean maybe the mix of certain of those assets could change or there would be new asset categories? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It could be both.
We're in this for the long haul.
And we can't predict what the next technology is necessarily going to be or what the carrier adoption of those will be in the United States.
But we are completely positioned to cross the waterfront that we're aware of right now to participate in these things.
We are the number one indoor small cell independent operator in the United States with over 300 locations as you know.
And we're ready to grow that business.
We have already grown it 30% last year.
So we're positioned in the place that we actually think has by our own experience has the most multi-tenant opportunities in the small cell space is the indoor small cell space.
And our data that we do have Brett just as a reminder that supports that is our indoor or venue-based small cell which include racetracks and stadiums et cetera have a tenancy right now of 2.3 tenants per system.
We do have a limited set of outdoor DAS properties which we feel are going to become multi-tenant but they are slower ramp up.
They are a little over one right now so we are very very focused on two things at the moment in the small cell space.
Those are primarily indoor DAS systems and secondly outdoor systems in specific locations where we think there will be enough tenancy demand because of the situation.
And those are very limited we think at this point that will get us to the ROIC objectives that we have.
So we are playing on all the bases Brett but we're really focusing on where we think the tenancy ramp up is highest and that's towers and indoor small cells right now.
Very clear.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
A couple if I could.
First I think the first pillar that you talked about was the scale of market and as you survey the global portfolio that you have are there markets where you feel you are not at that scale position that you want to be at and so you either have to scale up or scale out of that market? And then the second question I would ask just on the property side can you give us an update of where you are in terms of your control of property and how investors should think about the growth of the cash cost of property for you over time? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Mike it's Jim.
I'll take first one and Tom will second.
When it comes to scale of market I look at it at two levels.
Level one is what's the market position we need in a given country to cover our SG&amp;A base and hit our risk adjusted return on invested capital hurdle rate for that country? And I would say the vast majority of our markets and all of the markets – in fact all of the markets that are of large population we have already attained level one scale.
All right? In other words we are in a position where we can cover SG&amp;A and hit our return or already have hit our risk adjusted return for the market.
What we would really like to get to in the major markets and I will go through those in a second is what I like to call level two scale which means not only can you cover your SG&amp;A and meet your return on investment targets or exceed them you can far exceed them because you've got an asset position that puts you in a situation where you can be more of a strategic partners to the mobile operators in that country.
And so let's just walk quickly through the biggest markets.
In the U.S.
we are clearly at level two scale.
We've got the biggest tower portfolio.
We've got the leading multi-tenant indoor small cell portfolio.
We've got a great position here and master lease agreements of one sort or another with all the carriers.
If you go – if you move south in Mexico again as I mentioned clearly the number one independent tower operator there by revenue and readiness of assets if you will down to Brazil.
Again clearly the number one operator serving all of those mobile operators in a partnership level I would say approach.
And moving to the other large markets very quickly in Germany we believe we are the largest independent.
Even though for us it's a relatively small market it's an important country.
In Nigeria I would say we probably could use another acquisition to get the level two scale.
But we are off to a really great start with Airtel right now and in South Africa we're at least at level one and if we could get another asset we would clearly be at level two.
And finally in India pre-Viom we were squarely in the level one category and doing really well in that market with the assets we had but the Viom transaction sort of launches us well into level two territory we will be the number two independent operator.
And that's if you sort of count Indus as an independent.
So therefore I think when you go across the landscape of the major markets globally that we have elected to be in and we have selectively chosen those Mike as you know we are at level two scale or getting there in the case of Viom.
And Mike just to follow just to add to what Jim said.
I mean to the extent that we don't see a path or a runway to getting to that scale we will move out of that market.
Panama is an example.
Relatively small market but we didn't see a path or runway to be able to get to the kind of scale that we felt we needed to and so we exited that market and redeployed that capital in other markets where we do feel we have the scale or clearly have a path to get to that scale.
On the second question relative to the investments that we have in the controlling interests there are really three.
Two are really very small.
Uganda and Ghana relatively small.
We have controlling interests.
We manage the properties very well.
Strong partners.
Don't anticipate any changes there.
If we did it would be immaterial to our overall results.
The one would be on the – Michael were you talking about land or were you talking about our ownership of our properties? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Minority interests.
Minority interests? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> On the second question – well actually if you want to go through the minorities that is great.
I was actually asking about the property owner of the towers but we would welcome both.
Okay.
Well let me just finish then on – since I'm on the path and on the minorities the other one is clearly the Viom because we are going to be picking up 51% interest there.
And as we talked about the last time when we talked about this particular transaction the path there is then to be able to merge our two businesses in the market as you would expect.
And then ultimately see what happens with the remaining share to the extent that we did then invest to be able to get to that 100% clearly we believe that the integration or the synergies that we would be able to generate from that business would more than offset any of the incremental costs that we would be incurring to pick up that 100% ownership.
On the properties themselves on the land themselves in the United States we said a record year in 2015 in terms of the properties that we affected.
We affected about 3 000 of our properties and about two-thirds of those were ones that we actually extended for periods up to 25 years to 30 years to 40 years.
The balance were properties that we actually did acquire.
I think the statistic right now is that 63%-65% of our properties we either own or have for over 20 years.
The average term on it is about 22 years.
So we remain very active in that marketplace and you can see from our CapEx we expect to actually step up a bit in terms of the overall land with the Verizon tower portfolio that brought in a sizable number of new properties that we're looking to extend to the extent possible.
So yeah very active in the U.S.
and very focused.
The benefits of what we had done last year from an acquisition perspective I think is generating a $5-plus million run rate benefit on the cost line.
So it's definitely not just shoring up the property underneath the towers but it's also giving us a bend and a curve if you will from a cost perspective on the land side.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Sure.
And our last question comes from the line of Ric Prentiss.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for fitting me in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Ric.
Hey Ric.
Inc.</span></strong> A couple of quick ones I think they will be.
Piggybacking on Brett's question about property would you consider going into data centers? Second question is I think Tom mentioned the DCOM (59:01) fees would be flat year-over-year.
Can you just give us – remind us of what the 2015 level was? Ric that's an easy one it was about $37 million and it's about the same in 2016 Ric.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And on the data center question Ric that's not in our wheelhouse if you will.
We're operating on the radio access network very effectively.
We think that's where our customer contract and relations are.
And our expertise and it's a really deep expertise in this management team and broadly through the organization.
So I think we will focus on the radio access network communications real estate.
Inc.</span></strong> That's what I was hoping to hear.
Then the other two quick ones there are some towers left on your TIM transaction.
Any thoughts about where you are in that acquisition? And Tom on Viom you mentioned that you might roll American Tower India in.
Would there be a contribution to you from the other Viom owners that would help the balance sheet or would it just change the ownership stake? On that one just change the ownership stake Ric is I would view.
So it would increase our overall share of the business.
Inc.</span></strong> And the remaining TIM towers? Oh yeah.
There just under 1 000 sites that are left on that and that will happen over time where we are looking at kind of one at a time to make sure that we are interested in the site.
Some we are and some we are not but there are about 1 000 that we would expect to pick up – to move on if you will probably over the next 12 months or so.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Ric those largely have to do with accessing landlord consents and if the consents don't come as Tom said the operator will retain those but generally those consents come and we don't want to rush the negotiation of those individual sites.
We would rather play it out get the best transaction for ATC de Brazil or turn the site back.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thanks for those quick answers.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Treasurer and Investor Relations</strong> Great.
Well thank you everyone for joining us.
And you can reach those of us in the IR team or at ATC this afternoon if you have any further questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks everybody.
Have a great weekend.