Good morning.
My name is Michael and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Flowserve Q1 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mike Mullin.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to Flowserve's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast with our earnings presentation via our website at flowserve.com.
Simply click on the Investor Relations tab to access the webcast and the accompanying presentation.
For those of you that are listening to today's call through our dial-in phone number and also wish to follow along with the earnings presentation slides via our website please click on the Click Here to Listen via Phone icon at the bottom of the Event Details page.
The webcast will be posted at flowserve.com for replay approximately 2 hours following the end of this call.
The replay will stay on this site for on-demand review over the next few months.
Joining us today are Mark Blinn President and CEO of Flowserve; Tom Ferguson President of the Flow Solutions Group; and Tom Pajonas President of the Flow Control Division; as well as Dick Guiltinan Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and Dean Freeman Senior Vice President Finance and Treasurer.
Following our commentary we will begin the Q&amp;A session.
Regarding any forward-looking statements I will refer you to yesterday's earnings release and the 10-Q filing and today's earnings presentation slide deck for Flowserve's Safe Harbor Statement on this topic.
All of this information can be found on Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
I encourage you to read these statements carefully with respect to our conference call this morning.
The information in this conference call including all statements by management plus our answers to questions related in any way to projections or other forward-looking statements are subject to Flowserve's Safe Harbor.
Now I would like to turn it over to Mark to begin the formal presentation.
Mark? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying I'm pleased with our first quarter results.
When you consider that we have generally faced challenging markets for more than 2 years now it is significant to note that our employees have been able to maintain this level of quarterly performance at this stage of the economic cycle.
Their strong dedicated work gives me increased confidence that Flowserve is very well positioned to benefit when the expected stronger portion of our business cycle fully arrives.
Our short cycle end markets which typically recover faster during the economic cycle and our long cycle markets saw double-digit growth in the quarter notably in North America.
The improvement in bookings in our FCD and IPD operations which tend to be weighted toward short cycle markets reflected in this positive development.
As we anticipated we continue to see competitive challenges in our Long Cycle business which typically lags in the economic cycle as capacity is still chasing price.
While we've seen some EPD project activity impacted in the short term by the events in Japan and the Middle East nothing has shaken our belief that there will be attractive growth in infrastructure spending in our markets over the next few years as emerging markets develop and mature markets recover.
In the meantime we are working to remain selective and internally disciplined in our project bid selection process as pricing continues to be competitive on large project bids.
We were particularly pleased to see continued traction in our Aftermarket strategies with 9% growth in quarterly bookings over 2010 and improved core end markets across all regions.
Our growth in Aftermarket bookings is more evident of both of our ability to succeed during that tougher portions of the economic cycle and the continued effectiveness of our Aftermarket strategy.
Broadly across our core end markets we saw bookings growth in oil and gas chemical and our general industry markets where we saw increased orders in our distribution channels.
We also saw sequential improvement in the power market.
Bookings were $1.16 billion with a book to bill of $1.17 million representing an increase both year-over-year and sequentially.
This increased our backlog $2.8 billion which is up 8.4% versus the end of the year.
Looking at our financial results for the first quarter earnings per share were $1.72 which included some below the line currency-related benefits partially offset by other items.
We maintained solid margin performance with reported margins of 13.1% negatively impacted by the lower margins in our long cycle project backlog as we entered 2011 as well as the impact of lower fixed cost absorption and increased commodity cost.
Largely offsetting these headwinds were strong Aftermarket execution realignment savings supply chain initiatives and cost management.
Our adjusted margins were 13.7% excluding the effects of realignment in Valbart.
We expect Valbart to become a solid contributor over the balance of the year.
While our Long Cycle business will remain choppy and competitive in the near term we expect continued growth in our Short Cycle business volumes which we believe is indicative of the improving general economic outlook.
We expect that as volumes continue to pick up pricing will follow.
This becomes all the more important when you consider the influence of recent inflation in commodity cost.
As I mentioned we've seen continued traction in our Aftermarket strategies and our outlook remains positive.
We continue to invest in market expansion and product service offerings.
An example of this is our recently announced acquisition of a small Wireless Data business which increases our technical capabilities and integrated solution offerings.
The technology helps our customers manage their assets and maintain equipment reliability.
Looking at recent global events we continue to closely monitor developments in the Middle East and North Africa.
The vast majority of our employees and assets are located in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Where we had people in areas of more intense unrest we took action to move them to safety in early March.
We experienced some limited shipment delays which were reflected in our first quarter earnings.
We continue to assess the conditions in the region as protracted unrest has the potential to delay or cancel additional shipments as well as customer investments.
The tragic events in Japan did not result in injury to our employees or physical damage to our facilities.
Our Niigata manufacturing facility is on the West Coast of Japan and our QRC assets are located southwest of Tokyo and are actively engaged in supporting the reconstruction efforts.
Looking at all this from a strategic perspective it is vital to the success of our business that we continue to understand our customers and create solutions that best fit their needs.
We do this through leveraging our global project pursuit in Aftermarket network and delivering integrated technical solutions to the most complex process applications around the world.
Our consistent Aftermarket performance and solid performance during the last 2 years demonstrates the value our customers place on our commitment to delivering promised solutions.
As economies around the world continue to recover our diverse regional and end market exposures in our manufacturing base present both opportunities and challenges.
While events in MENA and Japan have impacted activity North America and Latin America have seen increased investment particularly in oil and gas.
Higher oil prices and crack spreads have increased many of our customers' capital budgets while the stronger Euro impacts the competitiveness of our European manufacturing base.
Higher feedstock costs for our chemical customers have generally not slowed structural investments focused on long-term demand while power investments have been relatively weaker due in part to the events in Japan.
Bottom line we will continue to manage our business with a long-term focus driven by our core priorities including disciplined profitable growth as we work to create additional value for our customers and shareholders.
I remain extremely proud of our employees as they have continued to perform in a challenging environment and once again delivered outstanding results.
And now I'll turn it over to Dick Guiltinan to review the financials.
Dick? Thank you Mark.
Good morning.
This is the Dick Guiltinan.
Mark has briefly touched on the highlights for the quarter so I'd like to cover the bookings and sales analysis and the key aspects of the consolidated financial results.
Starting with the bookings analysis the top graphics compare our bookings performance for the first quarters of 2010 and 2011 by industry.
Bookings for the 3 months ended March 31 2011 increased by approximately $91 million or 8.5% as compared with the same period in 2010.
The increase included currency benefits of approximately $19 million.
Driving this increase is growth in the oil and gas sector and FCD which has been a strategic focused in the basis for the acquisition of Valbart.
Increased bookings in general industries in FCD and IPD partially offset decreased customer bookings in power generation industry across all divisions.
The bottom graphic shows our original equipment to Aftermarket bookings mix for the first quarters of 2010 and 2011.
The increase for the first quarter of 2011 was primarily attributable to increased original equipment bookings in FCD and IPD and increased Aftermarket bookings in EPD partially offset by decreased original equipment bookings in EPD.
The consistent consolidated mix percentages year-over-year reflected diversity of our global platform.
The bullets at the right of the slide provide a good analysis of the mix.
The Aftermarket bookings grew 9%.
Our longer cycle bookings such as the EPD original equipment bookings are down 5% while the shorter cycle activities such as FCD and IPD original equipment bookings have grown 22% and 16% respectively.
Turning to the next slide.
Sales for the 3 months ended March 31 2011 increased by approximately $38 million or 4% as compared with the same period in 2010.
The increase included currency benefits of approximately $20 million.
Our revenues were impacted by lower shippable backlog project schedules and customer delays and to a lesser extent disruptions related to the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and the natural disasters in Japan.
Valbart sales were approximately $30 million.
The sales growth is primarily attributable to increased sales of original equipment products in FCD which was driven by all regions and included shipments of previously delayed large projects.
And increase in after market sales in EPD which are primarily driven by Asia Pacific and Latin America.
These increases were partially offset by decreased original equipment sales in EPD and IPD primarily in Europe.
The bottom graphics show our OE to Aftermarket sales mix for the first quarters of 2010 and 2011.
These graphs demonstrate the favorable sales mix shift toward higher-margin Aftermarket sales experienced in 2011 underscoring the success of our end user strategy.
Tom and Tom will discuss the divisions booking sales and margin performance in more detail later.
Turning to the consolidated financial results I would like to focus on the comparative margins.
We noted last year that the first quarter of 2010 still had some pricing benefits from long cycle backlog booked in 2008.
And that the relatively better priced backlog was being shipped through the second quarter of 2010.
As anticipated in the first quarter of 2011 our margins reflected business booked in the more competitive pricing environment.
As we've discussed over the past several quarters we have mitigated the impact of competitive pricing with low-cost sourcing supply chain initiatives realignment of the operating platform and other cost reductions.
In addition we are pleased with the growth of our Aftermarket and Short Cycle business volumes that also helped to offset the effect of the lower volume on absorption and lower margins in our Long Cycle business.
Our earnings for the quarter were also slightly impacted by ongoing unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and the natural disasters in Japan.
Under the circumstances I believe the gross margin of almost 35% and the operating margin above 13% represents solid performance.
Our focus on the SG&amp;A continued with cost efficiency efforts underway.
The increase over 2010 of approximately $11 million reflects the addition of Valbart increased FCD selling expenses in line with the growth in their business negative currency effects support for localization and strategic projects.
But our focus on cost is not simply into cutting.
We're continuing to invest in our people in the high-growth markets using some of the reduction benefits to support our growth initiatives.
You will note the large swing in Other Income for the quarter reflecting the negative currency effects of the strengthening U.S.
dollar and the loss from the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar in the prior period compared to the positive currency effects from a weakening dollar during the first period of 2011.
Given the currency volatility I think it's worth reviewing again the potential impacts of currency rate movements on our results.
Of that 70% of our business is international and denominated in local currencies.
As such significant movements in the currency rates can have significant earnings impact.
Translation of foreign operations with stronger foreign currencies provides a benefit in operating income.
We estimated that operating income for the quarter included about $4 million of translation benefit compared to the first quarter of 2010.
We also used foreign exchange contracts to hedge our future cash flows arising from some orders in our backlog.
These contracts are mark- to-market each quarter though the underlying orders may remain in backlog for some time.
Ultimately these orders normally move through our inventory through shipment to cash collection in later periods.
Some of the gains on forward contracts this quarter will be offset by higher cost in U.S.
dollar terms when the underlying orders are manufactured in our international plants.
In addition the strengthening of the euro against the dollar also impacts the competitiveness of our European plants as they bid on U.S.
dollar denominated orders.
Supply chain efforts hedging programs and cost controls are into keeping the plants as competitive as possible in the stronger euro environment.
We also work to balance our capacity in U.S.
and other low-cost plants to manage the stronger euro.
Just a quick comment in our tax rate of 25.7% which was below our estimated structural rate of about 28% due to the mix of foreign earnings and certain discrete items in the quarter.
We still consider our structural rate to be about 28% for the balance of the year before any impacts of discrete items.
Turning to cash flows our cash flow used by operating activities during the first quarter of 2011 is somewhat heavier than our historical first quarter cash outflow.
Cash flow from operations in the first quarter reflected increased working capital driven mostly by increased inventory.
Our raw materials inventory was up over December 31 2010 as our plants ramped up to satisfy growing orders especially in the Short Cycle and Aftermarket businesses.
The work in progress inventory increased reflecting the larger backlog work on new orders and some delayed shipments.
The strength of our balance sheet allows us to move aggressively to support the increasing backlog.
The timing of capital expenditure dispersed which resulted in an outflow of cash of about $24 million in the quarter which is about 20% of our estimated total CapEx for the year.
This level of first quarter CapEx is somewhat higher than comparable quarters in the last 2 years when we are focused on the financial crisis and realignment.
Cash flow from financing activities reflect a small increase in cash returned to shareholders through cash dividend payments and share repurchases.
In summary our cash balance at the end of the first quarter of 2011 was about $289 million which along with the demonstrated strong cash generation capabilities of our operating platform provides a good foundation to execute on our higher backlog and support our capital program in addition to other funding needs for the balance of the year.
Turning to the earnings guidance for the year.
As Mark said we are pleased with our performance for the quarter.
We continue to expect the planned increases in shipping volumes from our higher backlog and solid Aftermarket activity will offset the competitive pricing environment that we have been living with in our Long Cycle businesses.
Our performance improvement CIP and supply-chain efforts have provided cost savings and have mitigated some of the pricing headwinds and commodity price increases we've recently seen.
The IPD turnaround is starting to achieve results.
Valbart is gaining traction and is providing pull-through opportunities.
With a good first quarter behind us we are reaffirming our guidance for the year at $7.10 to $8 per share.
The breadth of our original range set when the dollar to the euro rate was about $1.37 anticipated some of the currency volatility.
The immediate impact of the mark-to-market gains this quarter will be offset by higher cost of sales if the orders are shipped from international plants in later periods.
Future currency volatility could have significant impacts on our results from quarter to quarter.
The ultimate effects of the Middle East and North Africa unrest and the recovery in Japan are difficult to predict at this point but we're monitoring these events carefully.
Now let me turn it over to Tom Ferguson.
Good morning.
Generally speaking I am pleased with the overall performance of the Flow Solutions Group.
Our focus on our end user customers operational excellence and strategic growth initiatives continue to provide a platform to drive bookings growth while generating solid sales and income performance.
We have continued to drive sales pricing discipline and carefully balance our project win rates and market share targets with factory loading consideration.
We've also continued to see competitive pricing in most Long Cycle original equipment markets as many of our customers focus on first cost for new projects.
We made progress on improving our Industrial Product divisions operational performance but still have work to do.
For the Engineered Product Division Q1 bookings growth of 1.7% was driven primarily by growth in seals in the Aftermarket.
Both of these areas benefited from our focus on Integrated Solutions Base programs.
Market activity levels are at core market sectors continue to be mixed and our longer cycle OE bookings fell versus last year primarily due to price selectivity.
We are pleased however with our Aftermarket business which continued to strengthen particularly in North America and Latin America.
Service and solutions opportunities have grown as end user customers show greater interest in energy efficiency and operating cost reduction.
Sales were down 1.5% primarily due to the lower OE you backlog entering the quarter versus 2010.
The gross margin decrease of 110 basis points adjusted to exclude realignment charges was primarily due to pricing from beginning of the year backlog and the impact of decreased sales on the absorption of fixed costs although partially offset by a sales mix shift to higher margin Aftermarket sales operational efficiencies and savings from realignment programs and supply-chain initiatives.
We are generally pleased with our operating income margin of 17.5%.
This was driven by continued focus on SG&amp;A controls pricing discipline realignment benefits and a strong emphasis on the Aftermarket.
While Original Equipment bookings fell 5% in Q1 versus prior year due to our pricing selectivity Aftermarket bookings grew to 9% due to the focus on offering solutions to our customers and continued growth of our accuracy network global.
Our recent equipment sales fell 25% due to lower projects shipments for the quarter but were offset by strong Aftermarket sales as we continue to see results from our emphasis on customer-driven solutions.
Overall the bookings were up for the quarter versus prior year.
And while we see fairly stable oil and gas opportunities on the horizon the Japan nuclear crisis has caused some nuclear projects in the opportunity pipeline to be canceled or delayed.
While other power projects such as fossil gas solar geothermal wind and biofuels are proceeding in the short term these may not fully offset any potential extended reduction in the higher value nuclear arena.
The broader question revolves around the impact of Japan on the overall global nuclear market.
Compared to Q1 2010 Aftermarket sales growth in North America Latin America and Asia offset much of the drop in our Original Equipment sales.
There was also a slight sales and margin impact from events in the Middle East North Africa and Japan.
These are important markets for FSG and we continue to monitor the different situations very closely.
In the face of competitive pricing we continue to increase our efforts on lower-cost sourcing effective cost management and productivity improvement using our well-established continuous improvement programs.
We're also positioned for growth to take advantage of the markets as they do improve.
We invested in more strategic localization efforts by expanding the scope of our new facility that is already under construction in Brazil approving a new highly engineered block at our [ph] India site and purchasing the land for a new world-class factory near our existing Suzhou China site.
We also continue to improve our [indiscernible] network by increasing resources in the ones we have opened recently.
We continue to differentiate our Integrated Solutions Group there are Technology Advantage and LifeCycle Advantage programs.
We will drive growth by targeting emerging markets and Aftermarket opportunities through strategic localization and enhanced Aftermarket and technology offerings including our recent acquisition of FEDD Wireless.
FEDD gives ownership of wireless performance monitoring and diagnostics technology used on pumping systems.
Moving on to the Industrial Product division let me say that I remain optimistic about the opportunity this new structure provides us to focus on these products and markets and can note that we are beginning to see the progress that we anticipated.
For Q1 the Industrial Product Division side increased by 15.7% versus Q1 2010.
We did begin to see improve activity in the global chemical market and recently released the next phase of a new chemical process pump line.
Gross margins were down 240 basis points versus prior year to 25.6% on significantly lower sales but were up sequentially for the second quarter in a row.
Realignment savings continuous improvement and supply-chain efforts were helpful but not enough to fully offset the 10.1% sales decrease.
SG&amp;A was reduced by 5.6% driven by cost containment and realignment benefits.
Overall operating margin of 8.2% excluding the realignment cost was down 270 basis points versus 2010.
This was primarily due to the reduced sales volume caused by the lower starting backlog at the beginning of the quarter.
Additionally there was a small impact on overall performance due to the disruption in the Middle East and North Africa.
As we work to improve performance in the division IPD has positioned itself for growth while improving its operating platform is maintained steady bookings in the face of mixed market dynamics.
Original Equipment bookings were up 16% and even more importantly Aftermarket bookings were also up 16% year-over-year.
Original Equipment sales were down 16% due to low starting backlogs and weak bookings during much of last year especially in the attractive chemical market.
Aftermarket sales were up by 3% leaving a nice volume of Aftermarket in the current backlog.
In the second half from 2010 we began executing a focused recovery plan under a new divisional leadership.
We invested in operational improvements and accelerated key realignment actions.
Renewed emphasis was placed on product development to address product gaps in key markets.
As we have noted before we are committed to working to generate operating margins of 14% to 15% by 2015.
We have already seen several synergies of all from integrating pumps and seals.
2011 will be a year of driving the benefits of the new structure in terms of customer focused operational excellence and strategic growth.
While the markets remain choppy I am optimistic about the opportunities this structure offers us in the Flow Solutions Group.
And now over the Tom Pajonas to cover the Flow Control division.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
This is Tom Pajonas I'm pleased to report on a solid performance for the quarter for the Flow Control Division.
In summary the Flow Control valve market can be described as choppy and price competitive.
In addition there are some general regional uncertainty in the Middle East.
And some concerns surfacing in the Nuclear business as a result of the Japanese nuclear situation.
We are continuing to monitor these areas for any effects on the overall Long Term business.
In terms of the financials orders for Q1 2011 were up 18.3% compared to Q1 of 2010 on the strength of chemical general industries and oil and gas bookings.
Sales for Q1 2011 increased over 31.8% from Q1 2010.
Operating income increased 18.5% over Q1 2010 results.
Excluding realignment and acquisition effects the base business had an operating margin of 15.8% for Q1 2011 as compared to 15.7% for Q1 2010 on the same basis.
While we are experiencing choppiness in the longer lead time Valve business we are seeing improvement in the shorter lead time businesses particularly in chemical pulp and paper [indiscernible] and our Aftermarket businesses.
Capital investments in the chemical and petrochemical industry appear to be recovering based on the project activity in the Middle East region.
Customers in general are telling us that they are seeing increased demands for certain base materials such as PTA and PX used in plastics.
The MRO business continues to do well in the chemical area.
Activity in South America pulp and paper remains strong with several projects in Brazil and Uruguay preceding.
The business in Russia and Europe are starting sooner stronger than prior year with Russian distributors placing orders based on anticipated demand.
In Power [ph] we did book nuclear valve for China and Korea during the first quarter of 2011 as certain approved customer nuclear projects are proceeding.
However the recent situation in Japan has impacted planned nuclear new construction at least in the short term.
In China the government is reviewing new plant and nuclear projects while a review of the design safety is being conducted.
Similar reviews are being conducted by various countries throughout the world so there may be a delay in some new nuclear project approvals.
The MRO activity remains stable across both fossil and nuclear power markets.
The nuclear MRO market continues to be driven by life expansion and upgrades.
The natural gas not resurfacing particularly in North America based on the availability and prices of natural gas.
On the oil and gas side of the business engineering procurement and construction awards are driving strong proposal activity for major oil and gas projects in the Middle East.
The most active markets are Saudi Arabia UAE and Kuwait.
In other developments coal seam production is generating strong gas development and LNG activity in Australia.
Oil sands activity previously delayed is heating up in Canada driven by oil prices.
New developing shale gas regions within the U.S.
continue to drive investment in gas gathering and pipeline construction.
We are seeing the Aftermarket business for control valves improving in Western Europe and North America.
LCD will continued to maintain our focus of disciplined probable growth.
Our localization of that does continue to proceed well as special with our white Flow Control joint venture in Saudi Arabia receiving Aramco's plant approval.
This allows control valve orders to be manufactures locally in support of Saudi localization.
This also allows us to expand in one of our high growth areas of oil &amp; gas.
The Aftermarket initiatives continue to produce sustainable results over the long term while our emphasis in low-cost sourcing and supplier development supports our continued localization.
Also we continue to invest in our research and technology areas particularly in diagnostics material development and coatings as well as our automation products.
Leveraging the capabilities of our sales force concerning portfolio selling will be an important driver for our business going forward and will be one of the several initiatives mentioned about the drive a probable growth oriented business.
And now over to Mike Mullin.
Thanks Tom.
Operator were are ready to open the line for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Market.
Back on the last comment on FCD and the nuke business the Nuclear business is a relatively small piece of that and broadly speaking a relatively small piece of Flowserve in general correct? Yes.
In general it's an important part of our business.
We've talked about this before.
You look in our power sector.
We participate broadly across coal fired and other applications as well.
But the point is it is high margin business for us and has presented good consistent opportunities for example if you remember back in 2009 the Valbart had a $50 million order.
So it's not something that we ignore but it's not a majority overall of our Power business.
Do you think what's going on with the review of projects outside of that for existing plants obviously reviews are going on.
Is that presenting an opportunity for you as reviews go on to look at what's already in place? It can.
That's a fair point in all of the business guys the little further what tends to happen you saw the Macondo oil spill last year and it tends to cause a pause everybody reevaluates.
And then they look for example the United States they're going to make sure they understand -- focus on the Greenfield.
And then look at existing facilities for recertification and oftentimes that may lead to upgrade requirements on existing facilities especially if Greenfield opportunities are going to be difficult to permit.
So yes it can present opportunities.
I think our note here is what typically happens and it's the same thing you saw last year in the oil and gas industry as everybody takes a step back pauses they look at the regulatory environment assess risk and opportunities in their existing facilities and you've pretty much seen that around the world.
All related to what you saw last year there was a Gulf oil spill and oil &amp; gas industry that impacted the region and you saw the activity what happened in New England gas.
This was a nuclear event and that has far-reaching impacts overall to the industry itself.
The whole industry is very tight and they watch these things very carefully.
So that tends to be what you see in the form of a reaction.
But also to your point that's right these people are going to make sure that operating facilities are up to grade.
And I would add Charlie that these type of events although unfortunate tend to drive back to multinationals that have very solid quality programs.
Documentation becomes more of an issue certifications deep into the supply chain.
So we tend to I would say benefit from these events unfortunately.
So the general comment is it's just the projects particularly the Greenfield project expansion.
They had some in the United States and other regions of the world are being certainly being evaluated.
And what that will tend to do is like what you saw last year is to pause and they'll make a decision to go forward or not in the oil &amp; gas industry.
You saw move forward on some of the projects certainly around the world.
It's yet to be seen what will happen in the Gulf.
As a follow-up on FCD.
As we look at the Aftermarket business it sounds like it's seeing some pretty good strength and it was 50% of the sales mix here in the quarter I guess the same with the bookings mix.
Do you see that moving up on the Aftermarket business that is moving up towards what was it was last year kind of in the high teens maybe gained 20% as we go through 2011? Charlie this is Tom again.
I mean if you look at the past and you go back to 2008 2009 we were probably in the high 30s in the '08 time period.
In the '09 time period we moved up to the high 40s per quarter.
And now we're sitting at the high 40s mid-50s.
So but I would say in our particular business the Aftermarket doesn't swing is much.
It would tend to be more steady in the Aftermarket by would say were at a different plateau in the business.
Yes and this has been an area of strategic focus.
If you followed our business for a very long time our former cell [ph] division the blocks and develop a lot of the end user strategies and what was the Pump division.
Now they're combined with FSG.
Tom has taken a lot of these strategies and put them into his business in forms of initiatives.
What you're seeing in the mix Charlie is as much the Short Cycle business growth is anything else.
Really what we tend to focus on is the absolute growth in dollar terms of our Aftermarket business and more importantly the backlog which is certainly significantly increased year-over-year in our Aftermarket business and even from year end.
So that's probably the better way of looking at it and really the reason we started commenting generally around Long Cycle Short Cycle and Aftermarket to really look at it more in terms of absolute terms mix will depend.
His mix is as much as what's happening in the short cycle OE business as anything else.
Fair enough.
And then I was also talking on the Valve business too because the obviously tends to have a smaller portion of pure Aftermarket business.
And I'm just wondering does that business it obviously as a margin impact as that business moves up 300 400 500 basis points on a mix shift there's a meaningful impact on margins pretty high margin business and we expect that business to see an impact? Because it sounds as though the Aftermarket business in valves is pretty strong right now.
Yes.
I mean it is.
And we talked about this before the Valve business is different than the rotating equipment because a lot of the Aftermarket comes in the form of a replacement valve.
They’ll just cut it out and often times it may go through a distributor as well.
Tom's still able to still command I would say good margins on that type of quick turn replacement equipment which is OE.
But fair point is he drives his end user strategy and grows his Aftermarket business that's absolutely good margin business similar to what you see in the FSG side.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Barbalato with Vertical Research Partners.
So when I look at Q1 Q1's typically a low-volume quarter.
You had delayed shipments and you're still working through the low margin backlog and you had the Valbart headwind.
Should we think of Q1 as a low order mark for operating margin? As you know we typically won't guide on margins going forward.
But our comment if you remember on the third quarter call was historically Q1 has tend to be a lower absorption quarter and you can really you can see typically lower sales.
And why that occurs is there's a big push at year end.
Our customers want the product and everything.
So Q4 tends to be historically has been a very strong shipment which tends to bring down backlog.
So that's the impact on the first quarter of the year.
We also commented before that what we've seen is that the first half of the year is going to be more challenging as we work through these things.
Generally when you take a step back and look at the business going forward our Short Cycle and our Aftermarket businesses are certainly showing some promise in terms of increased volumes and increased penetration.
And that's consistent.
Certainly the Short Cycle with what you're seeing is recovering economies around the world.
Our Long Cycle business which will tend to lag what goes on around the world for a period of time is still competitive and choppy which we've seen for a period in time.
So what we commented is after the second quarter last year is on the long cycle.
We're living in the pricing environment that was really started towards the beginning of 2009.
It's just you won't see it in our P&amp;L necessarily because it is long cycle.
Going back to the comment that's why in '09 pricing we had a pricing benefit overall because that was 2008 and some 2007 pricing.
So that's the best way to think about our business going forward.
Sure.
And then I guess as we head into Q2 are we going to be working through -- I mean will we have worked through most of the lower margin backlog? Well to my comment earlier on the Long Cycle backlog it can be there a year to a year and a half.
So the pricing environment you're in in that will manifest itself through the P&amp;L for a period of time.
So as you look out right now we're in a competitive pricing environment in the Long Cycle business and we have been.
That's going to be working itself.
That will be in our P&amp;L for 2011.
The other impacts though the short cycle if you heard our comments volumes increasing which can help not only on absorption but as price follows which typically happens as capacity starts to fill that up distributors tend to restock then you can get some pricing power in that environment as well.
And then also just the growth of our Aftermarket business.
We have higher Aftermarket backlog and that's high margin business.
My last question is Valbart was a little bit of a headwind this quarter does that turn positive in Q2? How should I think about that? Well what we commented is it's going to continue this year.
As we talked about we anticipated with this acquisition that you work through the acquired backlog that there is purchase accounting effects and everything with bringing the integration.
But we're really pleased with this acquisition.
I think Tom commented we've seen good pull through opportunities in the oil and gas business.
It certainly helped us with some of our strategic relationships.
It's a critical piece of equipment for the oil and gas industry.
So we expect it to be a contributor really through the year and typically you talk about these for about three or four quarters and then it's on to business as usual.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Sullivan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Question on the long cycle business.
You've talked a lot about the price pressure you have started to see in 2009.
It sounds like the environment hasn't changed much so that that could actually continue in the P&amp;L into 2012 with what's in the backlog.
Is that sort of the right way to think about it? It really depends on when the choppiness subsides and things tend to pick up.
Right now it's still choppy.
So if you -- Jamie we have percentage of completion accounting and everything that if it picks up you do see some benefit from it over the relatively short term but just think about it to my comments earlier.
Now one thing I'll caveat cycle times have come in.
So the fact that we carried a lot over into 2010 was reflective of the environment in 2008 where I can tell you price was chasing capacity and lead times extended out.
In the environment now time is money so lead times tend to come in.
But that is a fair point as choppiness -- if it does continue into this year and we've talked about it over the near term we continue to see that that will lag into our P&amp;L and could go in the P&amp;L into 2012.
LLC</strong> And then can you talk a little bit more about the delayed shipments maybe if we could quantify the exposure of the backlog when you might have some visibility on whether those would be canceled or an update there? Well you've seen our -- you followed our cancellations.
We've had very few cancellations.
A lot of this is more around on the delayed shipments.
Is inspectors available customers don't need equipment at that necessarily at that point in time.
We've seen kind of that effect in our business for the last couple of quarters where there has been certainly some delayed shipments.
And frankly some of them as Tom talked about as IPD is continuing to improve they are getting some of this past due backlog out of their business.
So it is an area of focus.
Certainly on the issues that we can control that is the past due backlog that we work on that we can get out to our customers a lot of it is just customers aren't ready to take that piece of equipment.
But keep in mind the way contracts are structured and obviously with the advanced cash it's often rare that the equipments are ready to go and they cancel it.
LLC</strong> And then maybe you could comment a little bit more about input costs in some of the shorter cycle businesses is that hurting right now? And similar to other companies you'll raise prices following on.
There's a little bit of a lag.
How should we think about that? That's the right way.
On our long cycle business when we bid these projects we lock-in most of the -- almost all of the economics associated with that at that point in time.
But on the shorter cycle business you -- as commodities increase you can pass it on but there tends to be a lag effect and same thing as the commodity prices go down.
And remember when we're talking about commodities we're not only talking about material cost that you would expect to see in a piece of our equipment but also in transportation and other things as well.
You can tend to pass those on but their -- as you hear with other businesses there is an overall lag and after that lags then you can pass the pricing through overall to the customer.
LLC</strong> Typically about a quarter or so on the short cycle in that lag? You know it really depends on the piece of equipment.
A quick turn seal can be a matter of weeks one of our valves it could be a couple of months or maybe even extend beyond a quarter as well.
I think the other thing that's important is we work very hard in all instances to make sure we use our supply chain effort and everything that continue to mitigate it as well.
So what we'll do in an environment where material costs come up is start to look more broadly at our supply-chain sources to see if we can take advantage of opportunities.
But clearly to your point when material costs come up and commodity costs come up it does provide a headwind to our business.
But remember at the end of the day a lot of what we provide when you look at our Engineered Product and our aftermarket is more around the human capital content to the business.
And what I mean by that is aftermarket margins remained fairly stable somewhat independent of commodity costs because really what they're paying for is that uptime and reliability.
LLC</strong> And just one last quick one on the power business do you talk a lot about nuclear? Some other companies have talked about opportunities popping up in other methods of power generation.
Have you seen any of that in discussions with customers or potential customers? Yes this is Tom Ferguson.
We have seen that in the alternative energies solar biofuels we're seeing more gas turbine driven power plants combined cycle things like that.
So we're well positioned with a full product line for the power sector.
And so some of the opportunities that have been delayed on the nuclear side are being offset by these other areas.
You know Jamie it goes back to the comment I made earlier in my original comments is bottom line and end of the line there is a need for energy both power and oil and gas.
And if one opportunity is delayed or foreclosed another opportunity will present itself.
That may create like I talked about the oil spill is it may create a short-term in our industry three to six months.
It could be in short-term delay in a project that's coming on line because what happens is if the nuclear facilities delayed there is not somebody just saying "All right let's just bring up this fossil power plant over here." But the bottom line is you look at the underlying drivers in our business the demand for energy is going to continue over the next couple of years.
So as these events occur which are unfortunately out of our control it may tend to have short-term impacts on the market.
But long-term the demand is going to need to be met.
And that's what gives us confidence as we look out over the next couple of years that there is going to be demand for infrastructure.
And then Jamie I would also add.
One of the things you see is a very low and high-availability of natural gas which tends to create some opportunities particularly in North America here for the combined cycle plants and then China and India still driving heavily into the coal market.
Your next question comes from the line on Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
The first question is just on the IPD business.
If you could just update us on the integration work you've done there what's remaining? And the product gap that you guys are closing is that done with -- what needs to happen from now on to get to sort of double-digit margins in that business? Yes this is Tom Ferguson.
We've made a lot of progress in IPD over the last couple of quarters.
We haven't completed everything yet but the majority of say the implementation of the ERP platforms and things like that is behind us.
We're still fine tuning and that will go on for another quarter or two.
The focus now is on expanding our distribution focusing on the new products.
We rolled out the first phase or the next phase of the new chemical ISO pump.
We got another phase to go but we're now in a much better position than we were.
And then we got a couple of other product gaps to fill but they are not huge pieces of the business they just help us have a broader portfolio for the chemical processing sector.
You know Hamzah what we talked about last year is it starts with leadership and we've got a leadership in that organization.
We're very pleased with it.
So I would say that one is we're very happy with what we have there and that's really where it starts.
And then I know you gave a lot of color on sort of the backlog.
But you guys mentioned that your second half is going to be stronger than the first and there are various puts and takes to that.
But isn't some of that cycling through lower-priced backlog as well? That's my first question related to that.
And then second one how do you think about the choppiness of the long cycle business starting to subside? Is that just excess capacity driven or is there something else structurally that needs to happen there? Well to your first question around the second half a lot of that was what we've seen in the growth in our aftermarket backlog and the short cycle business picking up.
As that kind of gets in place we saw that as a benefit to the back half of the year.
And then overall what you'll see in choppiness in terms of the pricing environment in the long cycle business is that the pricing can as we talked about earlier can remain in your P&amp;L for a period of time.
But as volumes start to pick up then you work through the absorption issues because as Tom talked about in EPD with the OE decline there was some anticipated absorption issues.
And I think this goes back to some of our earlier comments is we were thoughtful as we look at projects.
You can fill facilities with projects that don't have the type economics and maybe deal with the absorption issue.
But you have a greater impact long-term because if you need that capacity and a good opportunity comes it's spoken for.
So that's a way.
To think of our long cycle businesses is choppiness means and certainly in the pricing environment the price component that we don't expect and necessarily see a benefit on the price side in our P&amp;L and it will lag because it is long cycle.
Comments around the second half were driven really by what you saw in the short cycle business.
The growth in the aftermarket business.
We've talked about Valbart coming online as well.
Tom seeing traction in the Industrial Products Division.
Really those were a lot of the drivers and what we saw in the back half of the year.
And then just last question just on your balance sheet how are you thinking about leveraging that? You've done some small very small acquisitions.
How should we think about your appetite there and getting into some adjacent product categories? Do you still have a lot of internal work to do and you're going to keep the balance sheet the way it is or are you ready to use it? Well we've been ready to use it for a period of time.
But to your point and I think we made the comment on the year-end call we've been fairly internally focused in 2009 2010 around the realignment effort.
Although we did make an acquisition we're very pleased in 2010 in Valbart because the opportunity certainly presented itself.
But we are certainly looking at opportunities and willing to use our balance sheet which we believe we have a lot flexibility in our balance sheet as you look at opportunities out there.
So I think the message around that is we are -- there is still some internal activities that we're doing but far fewer than we've seen in the last two years in our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Graham with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> The cycling through of this backlog is just something that I'm trying to maybe get a better handle on here because conference call comments in the third quarter of last year were kind of maybe introductory into that suggesting that you know I know that these things ship out over the next over their next 4 to 8 quarters.
Nevertheless your sales numbers have been pretty good during that period suggesting that there has been some runoff of that backlog.
So is it fair to say that we should anniversary that late in the year? Anniversary defined as when I think the margins stabilize? It just seems that when you look at the bookings in the business and the shipments and then you turn around and compare it to the backlog it seems as if we should be cycled out most of this stuff third or fourth quarter of this year.
Well what you saw was really going back to 2009 is we started cycling into the lower the more price competitive environment really during the course of 2009 it increasingly through 2009.
But remember to be in 2009 had a lot of that prior period backlog a majority of that.
And so what you saw is a tailed off as we talked about through the first half of 2010.
So our comment around the third quarter is we're now kind of living in a pricing environment that on the booking side we've been in for a year a year and a half now.
So to that point that's kind of the environment we're in.
And if that means choppy and competitive that means that is kind of the same impact on that long cycle economics is you're talking about.
The other thing that we talked about that impacted us in Q3 was around absorption as well and our backlog is up.
So that should help with that.
So we'll be -- when to their comments earlier when pricing starts to improve in our long cycle business you do see some short-term benefit but really that will lag in your P&amp;L depending on what the average cycle time or the duration of that backlog is those times have come in.
So it's been in the P&amp;L.
On the pricing side the impact has been relatively stable since towards the end of the year.
But we're just going to be living with it for a while until the market -- the long cycle market start to pick up.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
Let me maybe just ask this question in a second way and I appreciate that response Mark.
If we look back at last cycle right you guys were fully in those same chairs and saw when pricing did start to improve.
Now last cycle was something maybe a little bit peculiar from the standpoint that everything seem to be going gangbusters for a long period of time.
Nevertheless this cycle particularly on the oil and gas side looks pretty strong right now early innings that kind of thing.
I guess I'm a little bit surprised that we haven't started to see a little bit less of that competitiveness.
What do you think is causing sort of the improvement in pricing to be delayed this cycle versus last cycle? I mean I think generally it's the available capacity that's out there.
Now it is starting to fill up overall in our industry.
We talk last year let's go upstream a little bit to the engineering and contracting side that would seem large participation by creating contracting firms.
As you listen to the Westerns and their comments they've starting fill up and the westerns are starting to see more activity.
So as capacity in our industry starts to fill up then you'll start to see the pricing opportunity come back.
And Tom said customers are focused on first cost.
They have been -- they went from the price chasing capacity in '08 quickly to first costs in '09 and they like it and they'll let go of it reluctantly.
But the fact is as capacity starts to fill up people become more selective or their capacity is full so they can bid on the opportunity then price will start to come back into the environment and it is what we saw on the last cycle.
It is certainly what we saw in the last cycle.
I think the difference when you look at us.
And when we talked about how we performed through the cycle we've been very pleased.
You see in our industry much wider swings in earnings through the cycle and we really been pleased with ours as it's been relatively stable.
But what's different from the last cycle obviously is our certainly our bigger footprint and a larger business but the growth in our aftermarket business overall.
That certainly has been key and our ability to maneuver globally.
They are seeing -- even through these difficult times there's been opportunities somewhere in the world.
Inc.</strong> Next question has to do with the cash flow which I guess you're a much larger working capital user in the first quarter of this year than you were last year and even more than you were in the last four or five years.
How should we read that? Is that to protect yourselves against raw materials? Is that based on near-term bookings that must be shift? How do we read that? I'll comment high-level and turn it over to Dick.
Backlog is up well over $400 million year-over-year and that's one of the things that impacts it.
Go ahead Dick? Scott with that said I'll rest my case.
Now let me go through a little bit.
I think there's a couple of different pieces to it.
We typically do have as you said a very heavy first quarter.
A lot of the use of cash increasing use of cash quarter-over-quarter came out of the inventory efforts.
We talked about the ramp up on the short cycle and aftermarket side so seeing increases in raw materials kind of is very consistent with that.
And then also we had a very heavy fourth quarter shifting [ph] level so we're kind of now into ramping up on the next projects in the cycle so you see work in process increasing as well and our progress going to [ph] down on a little bit based on how the fourth quarter closed out versus the phasing in the first quarter.
If we look at those three elements that's the biggest and most of the driver of the increase.
One general way to think about it and then further color is when our book to bill is greater than one that will tend to burden our balance sheet.
And another reason we do and we do this intentionally is we talked about how we mitigate material cost with really contemporaneous purchase of componentry in this long cycle business.
Historically you may have seen businesses manage to just-in-time inventory which means they would delay the purchase of that.
But we use our balance sheet: one to secure the cost in case.
There -- we saw copper rise in 2007 such that motors which can be 30% of the piece of -- the cost of equipment went up significantly and you can get squeezed there if you didn't advance procure that component.
So I think we do that.
And the other reason is on-time delivery is a motor -- you cannot ship that pump skid until the motor is there.
So you feel a lot better if it's sitting there in the plant ready to go even before you're done manufacturing the pump.
So I think that's some other elements just to understand our business.
But typically when the book to bill is over 1 and even in the downturn and in the industry you saw over the last couple of years our book to bill average still in the 0.9 4 or 5 range.
So we didn't see a big balance sheet liquidation which you traditionally seen in our industry.
But as the book to bill is greater than 1 it will tend to put pressure on our working capital and a lot of that clears towards the end of the year.
Inc.</strong> All right that makes sense.
This last question has to do with the prior question and also my question about -- and your response that there is excess capacity around the world.
Well we have a balance sheet here that can -- I know that it's a big market but certainly start to remove some of that capacity from around the world through acquisition means.
Could you talk about your acquisition pipeline? You bought Valbart and you like the acquisition and certainly oil and gas probably will be a good one.
But is there anything larger that you're looking at on the horizon here to maybe help yourself both with earnings and with capacity shrink in the market? Well obviously we don't comment specifically on M&amp;A or M&amp;A opportunities.
But there is certainly a range of asset prices that we're considering.
And really Scott our focus is on growth expanding our product capabilities expanding into markets also looking for ways to expand the value proposition.
And what we talked about we bought a ceiling system business a couple of years ago really to completely outfit the skid and also to leverage the aftermarket capabilities.
So we are looking.
The fact as you've seen is there has been activity and the price of assets have certainly gone up overall in the industry but there is still good opportunities out there.
So we don't -- we do have a flexible balance sheet.
So we really focus on the strategic benefit of the opportunity and then look at the integration aspects of it the risk return profile of the acquisition in and of itself and also we consider the impact overall to our balance sheet.
So we do have a lot of flexibility.
We -- comments earlier while we're still internally focused we have less internal activity which gives us the opportunity to certainly be more flexible in what we consider in the assets out there.
But that's the way we're going to look at it is really around focusing on growth and there could be the opportunity to certainly take some capacity out there but those will present opportunities and installed base.
We'll also consider that against the alternative of just going out and building and getting close to that customer.
And you've seen that we've built quite a bit.
I'll remind you I guess in the -- over the last three years we spent about $100 million of capital in growth opportunities.
That's like an acquisition for us.
Really what we do is we can -- what Valbart gave us was speed to market.
We wanted to get to that market quick and typically you pay a premium over building it yourself but you get access to the market and we like that.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Maczka with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Mark a lot of talk today on the call about this long cycle pricing dynamic.
And I wanted to revisit your comment on the short cycle side and we've had this anticipation for some time now that as volumes return pricing will follow and you made that comment again this morning.
So with volumes returning are you seeing that now? I'm just wondering what -- if you can comment more on the current pricing dynamic you're seeing right now? How much is it improving if at all? Well our comment you know is right.
As volumes pick up pricing should follow.
And we certainly seen it in some areas not across the board but as distributors restock and we've seen that activity price tends to follow.
And being that is short cycle business it tends to recover quicker with the economy.
So we do expect and anticipate that the pricing should follow.
Yes and I would add there is still material price pressure even on the shorter cycle business.
It certainly hasn't returned to the level that it was in the past but the volumes have definitely increased in Q1 here as you've seen in the overall numbers and that's going to help out on the absorption.
But we do have still competitors that are putting a lot of price pressure out there as well as the material prices are relatively high compared to what they were in the past.
So it hasn't worked this way out yet.
And then going back to your comment about the better second half than first half.
So if we're going to be living with this long cycle pricing and margin dynamic throughout most of this year perhaps is the short cycle dynamic the biggest issue here or benefit if you will that's going to drive a better second half? Or is there some other unique aspect of your low-cost sourcing initiative or your supply chain initiatives or something else that we should expect to really move the needle and be visible in the second half? I think it's all of the things that I mentioned earlier.
Yes short cycle should provide a benefit.
One certainly as volumes increase that gives you better absorption and better leverage overall in the business.
And then if pricing follows you get a benefit from that as well.
But also as I commented we have a significantly higher aftermarket backlog.
So that certainly presents an opportunity as we look out into the year.
And then the other things that we talked about it is going to be around continued focus on continuous improvement supply chain cost controls.
Also Valbart we've talked about its contribution and we expect it to be a contributor to the balance of the year.
And as Tom commented it's -- he's seeing improvement in the Industrial Products Division.
So really as we look out towards the back half of the year we have a number of things that kind of give us that outlook as to the opportunities in the back half.
Okay and then just finally on share on the long cycle Mark can you comment on your assessment of your market share there with I guess in EPD with bookings down five and OEM sales down 25 are you perhaps losing some walking away from some business as you maintain your price discipline? Or give us an update there if you will.
Well but you know in -- you'll hear this general in the industry by being discipline that does mean you walk away from some opportunities and it's because it's not strategic or it doesn't have the economics that you want and you always consider that against loading a facility.
So I think what that means is that we're selective in how we approach these projects overall.
And I'd add that one of our key focus areas is on maintaining our installed base so that we can continue to support the future aftermarket growth.
So while we may you know be given some slight amount of market share on the longer cycle projects we're still very focused on making sure we're building the installed base in the areas that are loyal aftermarket customers and in the right kinds of applications that generated good solid aftermarket.
So we focus on a lot of things.
And our win rate has bounced around a little bit but it's not bouncing significantly.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Barry with UBS.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Can you tell us how much of the backlog is nuclear? No we don't break out our backlog specifically by product offering.
It sounds like you said though it was less than 50% of the power backlog is that right? No what I said in the power business is it doesn't represent a majority or a big proportion of our power business overall.
Okay and then on Valbart in what quarter do you expect they will be accretive? Well we just talk generally for the year.
We expect it to be accretive and contribute for this year.
And as we talked about and we anticipate it and we've been still cycling through some of the effects of the acquisition but it certainly has come online.
I mean I think another thing to point out is the bookings opportunities that it’s presented to us have been very encouraging but we expect it to be accretive for the year and certainly to be a contributor.
Yes I was just wondering if it might not be until the fourth quarter since -- third quarter I think is the seasonally low point for it anyway.
Yes well you know Ro [ph] we don't provide quarterly guidance and certainly not bound to a specific acquisition.
Yes fair enough.
I guess just my last question is on trying to understand the dynamic in IPD around the revenue.
When I look at what the bookings have been for the past four quarters really north of $200 million for these solid lease though on the last couple and I think of that as cycling through within the quarter give or take.
So seeing the revenue down fair amount sequentially and year-over-year well below the $200 million I'm just trying to understand that dynamic.
Is that related to the delayed deliveries you talked about or is there also something else going on there that I'm missing? I think it's mainly really the impact we see overall on our business.
Q1 tends to be if you look sequentially tends to -- is often been lighter than Q4.
A lot of stuff goes out the door in Q4 for -- is talked about that's when our customers want it.
They have many of these international companies have annual cash budgets.
So they want the product delivered towards the end of the year and that's where we have collection efforts.
So Q1 tends to be and we talked about this in Q3 like year-over-year I think it was what Tom talked about is really reflected of the lower booking environment as they came into this year versus last year.
So I think but it's more really the Q1 lower volume sales volume levels that we've traditionally seen in our business.
They had a $220 million fourth quarter so that has headwind on the backlog.
Fair enough.
And then just finally when you were talking about the working capital change you called out among other things the delayed shipments having an impact there.
And I was just wondering if you could kind of to mention how much of the change in the working capital related to that? That -- I mean he was just commenting generally on work-in-process.
We talked about the last couple of quarters that there has been shipments delayed because customers aren't ready to take at some of the past due backlog.
Those are the things that as you look year-over-year really into working capital compare.
But I think most of the impact that you're seeing at our working capital is what we talked about around the increased backlog.
And we've got our backlog at $2.8 billion is as big as we've seen since I think we entered 2009.
So what that will tend to do is it will make a claim on your working capital and build working capital.
Your next question comes from the line of William Bremer with Maxim Group.
I guess what I'm trying to get my arms around is this cycle of lower competitive pricing began say mid 2009 can you give us an idea broadly of what innings do you think we ran only in like the seventh inning of this or are we in more like the fifth at this point? And given the underlying commodity markets what's your take in terms of how long potentially can this capacity get taken out? And then my second question is just on each of your segments can you give us an idea of what each segment is currently operating at in terms of capacity as a percentage? Well let me -- on the first question what we commented is we see this choppiness kind of into 2011.
So that's our current view.
There's certainly projects we see out on the horizon over the next couple of years that we have a sense for that we think will start to eat up this capacity in our industry.
And by the way the capacity has been used over the last couple of years.
So it's not a matter that we're at the levels that the industry is at the levels that it was last year it's starting to move up.
But really our view right now on our comments have been around 2011.
In terms of capacity utilization by segment we don't provide that data out there specifically.
But generally when you look at our capacity we do manage it globally on the highly engineered.
So we have the ability to move manufacturing across our various capacity depending on the lead times.
And I think the other thing that we've been doing is all of our capacity isn't necessarily ubiquitous.
So we have specific products.
We manufacture in specific locations.
We've been working consistently to make those efficient and also to start creating capacity in emerging parts of the world mainly it does give us an opportunity certainly on relative cost but moreover gives us the presence in those local markets where increasingly local contents require and we have strong capabilities there to address the market.
So we think of our capacity not as one-size-fits-all and we manage it as an overall percentage.
We manage up site-by-site relative to each project that we look at but also more strategically in terms of where does that capacity need to be to support the customer to support the QRC in the area.
So we've been as you've seen we've been adding capacity really in the emerging parts of the world.
Tom talked about that.
Our facility in Brazil we acquired some land in China next to our existing facilities to expand our capabilities there.
We're looking to continue to expand in India.
Well those are the three markets that are showing a tremendous amount of growth over the next couple of years.
And then just a housekeeping question.
I appreciate the color on it Mark.
On the SG&amp;A line Valbart is completely baked in? Yes.
Is this sort of the new run rate we should be utilizing going forward? Well that's going to depend on what happens with the currency.
I mean currency had an impact on our reported SG&amp;A as well.
But the way to look at it is I think around Dick's comments is we'll continue to focus on costs in this SG&amp;A line.
Our backlog is growing so we'll focus on leveraging our SG&amp;A.
But we could run this run rate down if we decided not to invest in some of our emerging market opportunities our technologies and we're just not going to do that.
So I think our focus is going to be on maintaining an efficiency in our SG&amp;A line and continuing to drive that.
So we still have opportunities to be more efficient I can tell you.
We stay very focused on that but also we want to make sure that we're doing some requisite lead time investing in our business and I'm getting engineers in the parts of the world where we need them.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Beach with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> You mentioned earlier in your comments that North America is strengthening and the emerging markets are stable.
Can you highlight a couple of the end markets where there is differences in the trends and whether there is a difference in the trends in OE and aftermarket between North America and the emerging markets? Yes I'll comment generally and let Tom and Tom fill in.
I mean generally what you saw in North America was in a lot of the oil and gas capacity.
Some of the deferred maintenance came back online.
So you've seen promise in that area.
The flip side is what we talked about earlier in the nuclear side a lot of that activity has stopped at this point in time as they're evaluating opportunities.
I think around the world what you've seen is continued investment in the Middle East.
There have been some areas where there has been unrest where some project activity has been delayed.
As you can imagine in Libya there's -- that's an oil-rich country and we certainly participated there.
There's not a lot going on at this point in time.
And so it really can kind of depend on country-by-country.
But generally in the Middle East they are continuing to invest in their capacity to increase production long-term.
Also they are driving very hard to move away from just being a crude oil exporter into more of a refined product exporter so that they can get more of the value proposition of the refined product.
In Brazil you've seen certainly in the oil and gas the major oil company has acquired a significant amount of reserves and they have investment to basically monetize those reserves.
It's on the horizon.
That's generally -- any other comment Tom? On the FSG side we have seen North America has strengthened on the aftermarket and particularly with refineries now doing some deferred maintenance and spending some money in those areas as well as we've seen the end markets like chemical and some of the general industry in North America pickup as well.
I guess to continue with what Mark said Latin America has been active especially on the oil and gas side and we're heavily into the downstream.
So there has been quite a bit of that.
And then the Middle East is just a very significant area and naturally the oil and gas is active.
But also things like power generation desalination those markets are active in the Middle East as well.
So it's not just oil and gas for us.
And I would just add to a few additional comments.
On the power side as Mark has indicated North America is going through I would say we're looking at the environmental regulations and probably is flat right now.
India and China is still going along pretty good.
We have the nuclear business in China still progressing with the U.S.
progressing but looking at the designs.
Combined cycle looks like it's moving pretty good around the world.
The shale gas in North America looks pretty good in there looking at how things are now in Canada you got the chemical business in the Middle East as they move the chemical business closer to feedstocks now.
And as people now find a lot of gas around the world to move in that that way.
And then we these other markets like pulp and paper are -- it seems like it's coming on strong back in particularly in Latin America.
You've got district heating in Russia where you got the distributors now stocking once again not to the pre-2007 2008 levels but they are stocking again.
You have mining which everybody's after their raw materials.
So that market seems to be fairly strong in Australia and other places in Latin America.
So there's some good movement in different markets.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And you touched on a couple of markets within general industrial.
But is general industrial the pickup you're seeing broad-based globally or is it focused around one of your geographic markets? It's more broad-based than we've seen before and which makes sense.
It tends to be as economic cycles start to trend up it tends to be one of the first to participate.
If you remember last year the mining industry saw on the engineering contracting side they saw a tremendous growth in the infrastructure opportunities in the mining.
That's typical when you see economies start to recover.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mike Mullin for any closing remarks.
Thank you Michael.
I would just like to remind everybody that this webcast will be available on our website for replay in approximately two hours and thank you all for joining.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michael and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Flowserve Q2 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mike Mullin.
Good morning and welcome to Flowserve's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast with our earnings presentation via our website at flowserve.com.
Simply click on the Investor Relations tab to access the webcast and the accompanying presentation.
For those of you that are listening to today's call through our dial-in phone number and also wish to follow along with the earnings presentation slides via our website please click on the Click Here to Listen via Phone icon at the bottom of the Events Details page.
The webcast will be posted at flowserve.com for replay approximately 2 hours following the end of the call.
The replay will stay on this site for on-demand review over the next few months.
Joining us today are Mark Blinn President and CEO of Flowserve; Tom Ferguson President of the Flow Solutions Group; and Tom Pajonas President of the Flow Control Division; as well as Dick Guiltinan Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and Dean Freeman Senior Vice President Finance and Treasurer.
Following our commentary we will begin the Q&amp;A session.
Regarding any forward-looking statements I refer you to yesterday's earnings release and the 10-Q filing and today's earnings presentation slide deck for Flowserve's Safe Harbor statement on this topic.
All of this information can be found on Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
I encourage you to read these statements carefully with respect to our conference call this morning.
The information in this conference call including all statements by management plus our answers to questions related in any way to projections or other forward-looking statements are subject to Flowserve's Safe Harbor.
Now I would like to turn it over to Mark to begin the formal presentation.
Mark? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that I am pleased with our second quarter results.
The first half of the year played out largely as we expected.
With the exception of disruptions related to turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa as well as the impact of the natural disaster in Japan on the nuclear power market.
But the most important outcome is that our employees were not harmed.
In spite of these challenges our employees remained focused on their commitment to customers which delivered solid results to our shareholders.
During the second quarter we continued to see improvement in our short-cycle businesses especially in our Flow Control Division.
This is encouraging because short-cycle business improvement proceeds similar improvements in our long cycle business as part of our typical macro economic cycle.
Additionally our end-user strategy of growing our global QRC footprint and expanding our service capabilities is paying off.
Strong second quarter aftermarket bookings notably in our Engineered Product Division represented a sequential bookings growth of 10% and is evidence of how well our strategies are working.
From a long-term perspective we are well positioned to meet the growing demands for additional infrastructure capacity in global markets through our long-cycle products.
In the short term our long-cycle engineered product business continues to contend with excess industry capacity and delays in the customer release of certain large infrastructure projects.
However certain aspects of our long cycle business appear to have begun to stabilize.
Looking at our end markets we see increasing momentum in the general industrial and chemical market as well as stable opportunities in the power and the short cycle oil and gas end markets.
Our bookings of $1.21 billion were up 6.8% over last year second quarter which included a major pipeline order in excess of $80 million.
Notably our second quarter 2011 bookings did not benefit from any large project awards which reflected increased overall activity in our markets in comparison.
Our book-to-bill ratio of 1.08 resulted in a closing second quarter 2011 backlog of $2.91 billion which is up 12% since year end.
Moreover we achieved this backlog increase while intensifying our discipline in our project bid selection process.
As a result we have seen increased stabilization in our EPD long-cycle project backlog pricing and have reserved some dry powder for the large projects which we expect to see later in the year or in 2012.
Looking at our financial results for the second quarter we were pleased with our reported earnings per share of $1.76 an 8.6% improvement in quarterly reported earnings year-over-year.
Our fully tested margin of nearly 14% excluding the effects of the discrete charges noted in our press release was also consistent with our 2011 goal of driving margin performance through a challenging first half of the year.
We continue to make progress on our IPD improvement plans.
This quarter we took a $7 million charge to rationalize our IPD European manufacturing footprint and accelerate our low-cost sourcing initiatives.
As we prepare for markets ahead we look at this IPD initiative as one of the final touches of our successful realignment program which we began in earnest in 2009.
As we look at the second half of 2011 we have the business in hand to achieve results.
In addition to the market trend which I discussed earlier our backlog which includes some past due work provides us with the ability to control our destiny if we are successful in execution.
Putting it all into context we're pleased with how we have weathered the macro economic downturn which began nearly 3 years ago.
We had maintained bookings around the $1 billion per quarter level during the first 2 years which allowed us to load our factories realign our capacity to reduce higher cost capacity in mature markets while simultaneously building our capabilities and growing global markets improve our aftermarket footprint and invest in our business and people.
And recently we have seen bookings trends at a higher level which allows us to position for growth.
We were also able to keep relatively stable earnings and solid double-digit operating margins in the face of a tough pricing and reduced market demand environment.
Most importantly we continue to invest in the development of our employees throughout the world.
Considering the overall trends which I have mentioned in our markets and these accomplishments we were very well positioned to profitably grow our business by serving our customers with operational excellence in the days ahead.
While the job is incomplete in some areas where we are focused on improvement we are encouraged by the opportunities ahead especially given the proven capabilities of our strong global employee base.
And now we'll turn it over to Dick Guiltinan to review the financials.
Dick? Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone.
This is Dick Guiltinan.
Our second quarter EPS of $1.76 per share included an $0.18 impact from realignment costs an accessed Spanish regulatory charge which is subject to appeal.
The $1.76 also includes about $0.07 of currency benefit.
This EPS was also impacted by about $0.03 per share from the Middle East North Africa turmoil.
Our second quarter bookings grew 6.8% on a year-over-year basis and about 4% on a sequential basis over the first quarter.
Year-over-year original equipment bookings were up 9.2% in the second quarter.
The increases were primarily attributable to strength in the oil and gas chemicals and general industries.
Original equipment bookings reflect continuing improvement in the short-cycle OE markets.
The large long-cycle projects continue to be choppy and competitive.
The comparison for the oil and gas bookings include a more than $80 million pipeline order in 2010 underscoring the choppiness of the large project opportunities.
Aftermarket bookings of $473 million were up 3.3% year-over-year.
This increase is driven by increased customer maintenance and improved overall economic activity.
The book-to-bill ratio in the second quarter was 1.08 reflecting a solid broad-based increase in bookings.
The strong year-to-date bookings resulted in consolidate backlog of approximately $2.9 billion up about 12% over the end of 2010.
Turning to the bookings and industry outlook which compares bookings performance for the year-to-date 2011 and 2010 by industry.
You can see that much of the 2011 bookings performance was driven by chemical and general industries which increased in both absolute and relative terms.
Oil and Gas bookings also performed well with the previously discussed $80 million pipeline order in 2010 affecting the comparisons in 2011.
The bookings performance in the power sector was down primarily because of the decrease in nuclear power generation awards as the events in Japan are assessed.
Regarding the sales and regional outlook the year-to-date regional mix is slightly more weighted to the emerging markets of the Middle East Asia-Pacific and Latin America in 2011.
Flowserve's strong presence in all global regions continue to be a major contributor to the second quarter growth in sales.
The next slide shows year-to-date bookings in sales mix.
You'll note that our original equipment to aftermarket bookings mix for 2011 and 2010 are roughly comparable which is consistent with the second quarter results as well.
Sequentially the aggregate mix shifted slightly from 63% of original equipment in Q1 to 61% in Q2 although there was more variability in the divisional mix which will be discussed later.
The good news here is that both 2011 bookings and sales were up year-over-year.
Turning to Q2 2011 consolidated financial results sales for the second quarter increased 17.1% on a year-over-year basis and were up 12.9% sequentially over the first quarter.
The sales increase was driven by FCD broadly and EPD aftermarket sales particularly in its mechanical seals.
Gross margin performance for the second quarter of 32.8% was reflective of the continuing competitive pricing environment in the long-cycle projects we have seen in recent quarters.
Materials pricing volume-related under absorption of manufacturing expenses and charges on certain projects.
These factors were partially offset by savings from continuous improvement programs supply chain and realignment.
The increased SG&amp;A expenses for the second quarter of 2011 reflected higher selling and marketing-related expenses primary attributable to increased sales volumes in FCD and a regulatory penalty assessed by Spanish regulators affecting EPD.
Our 10-Q discusses that issue in detail so I won't go into detail here.
These increases were partially offset by our cost control actions and savings realized from our realignment programs.
The absolute increase in SG&amp;A also reflects our continuing investment of people and global capabilities in emerging areas somewhat offset by cost reduction efforts elsewhere.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales in the second quarter of 20.7% was comparable to the second quarter of 2010 and included continued investments in growing the company's global capabilities.
Operating margin for the second quarter was 12.4% or 13.9% when adjusted for realignment costs the Spanish regulatory penalty and the margin impact at Valbart operations which was slightly profitable for this quarter.
Other income expense net included the effects of foreign currency volatility which resulted in foreign currency gains of about $5.4 million in the second quarter and $14.1 million for the year-to-date period.
In the prior year the weakening euro against the U.S.
dollar and the Venezuela Bolivar devaluation resulted in large currency losses.
While we've received a year-to-date benefit from foreign currency currency markets remained volatile.
It's important to note that continued exchange rate fluctuations increase the risk of earnings volatility affecting future company results.
Before I leave the financials let me briefly mention realignment.
Our earlier announced programs are near completion.
We have small charges related to these programs of $1.3 million in the second quarter and $2.1 million for the year-to-date.
Some final asset moves and rationalization remain under those programs.
We have realized the bulk of the savings at this point approaching the $120 million annual run rate we previously committed.
In the second quarter we recorded a charge of $7.1 million related to a project to improve IPD's European manufacturing footprint.
This new charge will be covered by Tom Ferguson shortly.
Our cash flow from operations was generally consistent with our normal sequential trend but the second quarter of 2011 does reflect additional working capital deployed in the business.
You will note that the year-to-date also show significant investment in working capital which merits some discussion.
Operationally the accounts receivable reflect growing trade in progress billings that you would expect with the increase in short-cycle sales and backlog.
However we've also seen some slowdown in collections as some customers have slowed their payments and as payments on final project billings are clearing customer approvals.
This is always a tough process but it seems a bit more protracted at this time as customers deal with continued macro economic uncertainty.
However we see no real deterioration in the ultimate collectability of our receivables.
Regarding the increase in inventory a significant driver has been the accelerating pace of orders and increased backlog.
But we have seen a few self-inflicted project delays that we are sorting out some supply base capacity delays from our vendors and also some customer-driven delays.
We are working hard through these issues and are using the strength of our balance sheet to support our supply base to position us to execute more efficiently on our growing order book.
Optimization of the working capital will continue to be a focus as we work through the year.
Capital expenditures resulted in an outflow of cash of about $25 million in the quarter.
Our capital expenditure outlook for the year remains in the $120 million to $135 million range.
Cash flow from financing activities are comparable for the quarter and year-to-date and include the normal periodic repayments on our new credit facility.
Our closing cash balance of $221 million resulted in net debt of $299 million.
Our ending cash position and our available access to credit continued to provide a strong financial position to fund future growth and otherwise provide flexibility to take actions to improve our business.
Turning to primary working capital as I just discussed the increase over the prior year primarily supported the bookings growth in our business.
A portion of that increase is foreign exchange related not an excuse but the reality of closing June of 2011 with a euro to dollar exchange rate of $1.45 compared to $1.22 in 2010.
It also includes the working capital tied up in some delayed jobs they're working to complete prior to year end.
Turning to the cycle dynamics chart despite the challenges in volatility in the market over the last few years we have managed to hold earnings per share at a relatively stable level as we realign the business focused on costs and invested in strategic initiatives to position for the future.
The cycle slide dynamic demonstrates that we've benefited significantly during the downturn in 2008 2009 as a result of the strong pricing environment in 2007 2008.
As the global economy has slowly begun to come out of the recession the decreased bookings and pricing pressure during 2008 2009 have been a drag on margins.
However we are pleased that we've been able to maintain our earnings and margins at the noted levels over the past 2.5 years during tough macro economic times affecting the globe.
Finally we reaffirmed our 2011 guidance of $7.10 to $8 per share.
This updated guidance includes the previously noted adverse impacts of the Japanese disaster the MENA turmoil and the newly announced IPD realignment.
Nonetheless based on the improved market conditions in certain areas which have been discussed our successful cost controls realignment benefits and operational excellence initiatives we believe we are on track to close another successful year.
Tom Ferguson will cover FSG operations.
Tom? Good morning.
The core message today is that I am pleased with the performance of the Flow Solutions Group during a very challenging quarter.
The second quarter was indicative of why we continued to say we are not a quarter-over-quarter business.
While we continued to execute on our end-user customer focus our strategic growth initiatives and driving bookings growth we had to weather several external disruptions.
During the quarter we continued to face political disruptions in North Africa compounded by dislocation in the Japanese market in the aftermath of the earthquake and the tsunami and the current disruption in the global nuclear power market.
Our project business remains choppy and competitive and we continued to approach this market strategically in terms of balancing pricing discipline project win rates and market share targets with factory loading considerations and long term business considerations.
And while large project pricing remains very competitive we have seen stabilization in the pricing environment and continue to exercise discipline and project selectivity.
In our Industrial Product Division we are gaining momentum on bookings and sales in our realigned operations and we announced additional realignment efforts in our European operations as we have identified additional opportunities for meaningful structural improvement.
For the Engineered Product Division Q2 bookings fell around $43 million or 6.8% on a tough comparison to the second quarter of 2010 when we booked a project in excess of $80 million and a very large ISG aftermarket job in the Middle East.
Excluding those 2 projects we would have shown growth on both original equipment and aftermarket.
Activity levels in our core market sectors were mixed as the chemical and general industry markets grew as did in the power market other than nuclear which is experiencing current softness in response to the Fukushima shutdown.
We were pleased once again with our aftermarket business as it continued to strengthen.
Service and solutions opportunities have grown as customers show greater interest in energy efficiency and operating cost reduction.
Sales were up 6.3% primarily on the strength in the aftermarket which offset a slight decrease in OE shipments.
The gross margin decrease of 240 basis points was due to lower pricing and backlog rising material costs and costs associated with certain delayed jobs partially offset by a sales mix shift to higher margin aftermarket sales and certain operational efficiencies.
We also generated increased savings from realignment programs and supply-chain initiatives.
Operating income margin fell to 15.6% driven by lower gross margins and higher SG&amp;A costs primarily due to currency fluctuations and a $3.9 million anti-competition regulatory penalty levied on our local subsidiary in Spain.
While original equipment bookings fell 19% in Q2 versus prior year due to the tough comparison I described earlier aftermarket bookings grew 3% due to the focus on offering solutions to our customers and continued growth of our QRC network globally.
Original equipment sales fell 7% from lower project shipments for the quarter but were offset by a strong aftermarket sales as we continued to see results from our emphasis on customer-driven solutions.
Overall bookings were down for the quarter versus prior year as I described earlier.
While we see fairly stable oil and gas and chemical opportunities on the horizon the Japan nuclear crisis has caused some nuclear projects in the opportunity pipeline to be canceled or delayed.
Other power projects such as fossil gas solar geothermal wind and biofuels are proceeding and present opportunities for bookings growth.
Much of our recent product development activities have been focused on product lines for greener energy generation.
Compared to Q2 2010 aftermarket sales growth in North America Latin America and Asia offset much of the drop in original equipment sales.
There was also a slight sales margin impact from events in North Africa and Japan.
These are important markets for EPD and we continue to monitor the different situations very closely as we believe that short-term disruptions may proceed opportunities to help our customers to recover and rebuild for the long run.
In the face of the competitive pricing environment we continued to focus on lower-cost sourcing cost management and productivity improvement using our well-established continuous improvement programs.
We're also positioned for growth to take advantage of the markets when they do improve.
We continue to invest in more strategic localization efforts in Brazil India and China and engineering capabilities in India.
Our expanded QRC network and our differentiated aftermarket offerings continue to drive growth in aftermarket.
The Industrial Product Division is showing momentum as we saw bookings and sales growth during the quarter and made further headway in achieving our long-term goal of achieving 14% to 15% operating income by 2015 as we initiated new activities during the second quarter to work to optimize certain structural parts of IPD's business.
We expect charges related to this program to total approximately $9 million of which $7.1 million was incurred and recorded in cost of sales for the second quarter.
In Q2 bookings were up 6.8% on strength in the Americas and activity in the global chemical and general industrial markets.
Sales were up 13% also on shipments in the Americas and in the chemical and in mining markets.
Gross margins were down over 500 basis points versus prior year primarily on $7.9 million of realignment charges taken an increase of $3.8 million versus Q2 last year.
We saw some lower margin in backlog but somewhat offset by realignment savings.
SG&amp;A was down slightly excluding FX impact driven by cost containment and realignment benefits.
Overall operating margin of 7.8% excluding the realignment costs was down 230 basis points versus Q2 2010.
This was primarily due to the reduced margin and backlog and a small impact on overall performance due to the political disruptions in North Africa.
We are continuing on our path started in the second half of 2010 executing a focused recovery plan under IPD's new divisional leadership.
We continue to make the investments in operational improvements and we have accelerated key realignment actions to refocus the business with our growing served markets.
I am confident that we have set the division on the right path for recovery and we are seeing momentum.
I am satisfied with the performance of FSG as a whole given the difficult circumstances of the second quarter including short-term external challenges additional realignment efforts and legacy issues.
We continue to expand our aftermarket capabilities align our product offerings with growing markets and make our operating footprint more efficient.
Coupled with the capability and leadership of our people I believe we continue on the right course in this market.
And now over to Tom Pajonas to cover the Flow Control Division.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
This is Tom Pajonas and I'm pleased to report very solid performance for the Flow Control Division.
2011 Q2 bookings for the valve business were up 35.4% versus prior-period with strong showings in the oil and gas chemical and general industry businesses.
Revenue over the same comparison period was up 44% with significant growth across all businesses and channels including original equipment manufacturers end-users distributors and EPCs.
Operating income comparison between Q2 2011 and Q2 2010 showed an increase of 41.9% with consolidated FCD operating margins at 15.5%.
Excluding realignment and acquisition effects the base business had an operating margin of 17%.
Q2 bookings of $440 million were the highest of any quarterly bookings for that period of 2008 to 2011.
These solid bookings give a healthy book-to-bill ratio of 1.14 and a total backlog of $769 million.
Now let's review our industrial markets.
In the chemical industry we continued to see strengthening of the capital and MRO markets as previously discussed in Q1.
Many of our products are used in chemical plants producing chlorine acidic acid and PTA.
These are then used to produce textiles plastics rubber PVC pipes and the automotive products which are all forecasting higher demand.
Customer site budgets in the chemical industry are being released again for MRO activities as well as small capital projects for capacity increases and upgrades.
In general we are seeing an increase in North America and Western Europe activity.
FCD's oil and gas business have seen a significant increase versus last year's comparison as our growth initiatives in this area have seen results.
While the oil and gas market has been choppy we continued to see improved activity in the market.
Activity in the Middle East and the BRIC countries are 2 of the components driving the improvement.
The market is also experiencing a growth in shale gas.
Discussions on shale oil are also now beginning to surface.
Distribution is strong in North America especially with MRO orders.
In addition Chinese pipeline oil and gas development and Chinese coal-to-gas and coal-to-liquid developments will increase opportunities for our products and services.
Let me say a few words about our previous Valbart acquisition.
Valbart contributed strong bookings in Q2 in the oil and gas business with overall strong proposal activity.
Valbart will further strengthen our position in the oil and gas business as reinforced by the pipeline opportunities in China and Middle East potential business.
In power we mentioned last quarter that some of the customers are reviewing new play in nuclear projects while a review of the design safety is being conducted.
This has created at least a short-term impact on planned new nuclear plant construction.
Fossil power opportunities are mixed both regionally and based on the type of fuel being coal or gas.
Coal activity continues to be strong in India and China and weaker in North America due to the uncertainty regarding climate legislation.
The national gas boom in the U.S.
and the availability of increasing reserves is fueling an improvement in the use of combined cycle gas plants.
The MRO for both fossil and nuclear markets remain stable with the nuclear MRO market being driven by life extensions and upgrades.
The general industries business is up versus prior year in terms of bookings led by increases in MRO the distribution business in general the strategic [ph]  Opportunities and pulp and paper.
Overall FCD continues to position ourselves to take advantage of the market's growth prospects in China India and the Middle East particularly in the oil and gas area while balancing North America and European opportunities.
In addition our QRC footprint allows us to continue to drive the aftermarket business across the market.
The supply chain strategy we have established in the Middle East China India Russia and core U.S.
and European markets has allowed FCD to meet quality schedule and costing objectives of our diverse customer base.
Customer schedule pressures is beginning to build on large capital projects particularly oil and gas.
So lead time and on-time delivery will become critical drivers for the EPCs and the end users across our supply chain.
We are also driving our diagnostics portfolio selling and product development areas to try to make sure we have the latest product and service offerings for our clients.
To summarize Q2 performance for FCD had very strong order and revenue growth high on-time delivery and solid operating margins.
And now over to Mike Mullin.
Thanks Tom.
Operator we are ready to open the line for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
With respect to the self-inflicted delays and the customer delays can you just be a little more granular on that if you expect to make that up in third or fourth quarter this year? Or how far are those delays going? And a little more maybe on what the self-inflicted delays comprise? Charlie Dick Guiltinan.
Yes we've talked about project delays some customer-related some supply-based related and some operational.
If we have delays they sit and they attract costs.
Part of our processes is to look at kind of the overall project profitability as we look at those costs.
And if we think there has been hit we take the hit currently.
So this quarter we reflected some of the expected pain over those projects.
Currently we're working to clear those through the process and get them through the -- into revenue and out of backlog as quickly as we can.
Okay.
I go to the MRO question.
There's now --  look at the bookings the aftermarket mix shift on the year and I look at gross margin.
It would seem that the original equipment gross margin is year-over-year ahead hit of 400 to 450 basis points which is probably due to the pricing.
Am I looking at that correctly?  And has that -- pricing at the larger products stabilize due to water [ph]  is getting worse or better? Look Charlie I think the pricing on that 2009 2010 backlog flowing through I think continues to be the same story very very competitive.
And if you're looking at that relative to last year I think you need to remember the remaining bids of the 2008 favorable pricing flow-through last year.
So in that comparison we're getting a little bit of that old pricing as well.
Further if you think about it a bit currency is a factor.
We've had as the dollar weakened over the last few quarters some below-the-line benefits on our mark-to-market on our hedges.
We've been saying that those positions were in backlog and if they flowed through we'd see some margin compression flowing through gross margin.
Clearly some of that margin compression is flowing through at this time.
And then if you're thinking about that overall EPD gross margin there are some incremental -- or increased material costs as well.
Okay.
One more and I'll get back in the queue.
On the Flow Control Division I think you mentioned 17% margin on the base business is that -- that's excluding Valbart? Yes.
We try to normalize by excluding the margin dilutive effect of Valbart.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Barbalato with Vertical Research Partners.
What's driving your view that the project activity is going to pick up in 2011 and 2012? Your comments seem to be incrementally more positive.
So I mean simply put look at the announcement.
If you followed Dow's call yesterday about the large chemical project in the Middle East these are things that we've seen on opportunities for a period of time.
But believe it or not when there's unrest in the Middle East that it can have the impact -- that actual maybe accelerating projects we're hearing now.
But also around these global economic issues in Europe and in the United States that impacts as to when people really give the sign as to whether these things are going -- when they're specifically going to go forward.
Great example is what you heard yesterday.
That was one of the projects we've been watching for a while.
We've watch these and have increasing confidence they're going to come online.
As we've talked about for quite a long period of time these projects are needed around the world and they're needed as much for the local economies in a various set of reasons that we've talked about whether it's Brazil Russia China India certainly or the Middle East.
So we knew there is going to be infrastructure spend.
But these discussions tend to go from quarter-to-quarter.
Their decisions tend to go from year-to-year but we're getting better visibility now.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Barry with UBS.
I was wondering if you could comment on -- this mention of selective bidding and what does -- what do you mean by that? And how is it impacting pricing? This is Tom Ferguson.
The -- we have a very robust opportunity management processing system.
And so we look at all facets of a project in terms of -- is it attractive from a customer standpoint? So is it a customer that tends to be loyal to buying their aftermarket from us? Is it located in an area where we have a QRC so we can provide good support? And then obviously the engineering firm involved and what kind of terms they usually deal with.
And then finally we look at -- what is the load in that factory versus what is the market level price we're probably going to have to get to to have a good shot at winning.
And so that's been kind of rocking along for several quarters now.
But -- so it's like anything.
There's a lot of opportunities in the pipeline and some are attractive some are less attractive.
And we try to pick them around using all of those factors.
And that's why it is a robust and selective bidding process.
And Robert to my comments in my earlier statements if you look over the last 3 years you saw projects but you didn't know if they were going to push years.
And so you're focused may tilt more towards load.
But as we're coming in in the environment now where we see the project opportunities you can start to think relatively shorter term.
And again this isn't quarter-to-quarter about how you load those factories and whether you want to keep some dry powder.
So what that does tell you is as -- as you see market opportunities over relatively short period of time and we're talking a year you can -- companies like ours and in our industry can become more selective.
Got you.
So given that -- it sounds like you have more confidence about project activity coming in the back half maybe you pulled back a little bit because you're not as urgently concerned about filling the capacity because you kind of have a little better visibility on better stocks in the next 6 to 12 months.
Is that...
That's fair and that's the way I would characterize the industry.
I mean that's certainly the away the industry operates and how we look at it.
But let's remember some things that we've talked about before.
It is still competitive.
These big projects -- and I've referenced what you heard from one of the chemical companies yesterday I can assure our industry was on top of that call as well.
So these things do remain very competitive.
And also think about -- whereas we've talked about before as these -- as the market conditions change in our order book there'll be a lag effect because it is a long cycle as to when we'll start to see the benefit in our income statement.
Yes.
You did also mention in the short cycle business seeing some distributor restocking impact.
Is that new? Has it accelerated? And is that something that's temporarily giving a boost? I would say that the distributor restocking is continuing to trend from Q1.
It is pretty robust across a wide range of markets not just in one particular market.
I would say it's increasing from the level of Q1.
It's tough to say whether that's at the top end or it will continue up.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Graham with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> The aftermarket bookings organically in both the Engineered Product and IPD both were off just a little but still off versus last quarter which I thought that those bookings were better if I recall correctly.
Is there anything we should be reading into that? I didn't think that that would be lumpy.
Sequentially they were up.
Overall the aftermarket order book was up 10%.
If you're looking at the year-over-year comparison we had a very strong Q2 last year.
There was some pent-up demand.
And I think Tom actually referenced a fairly large strategic aftermarket order that we had.
But overall we're very comfortable with the way this aftermarket business is trending.
Keeping in mind the incremental installed base it goes in around the world at any given time is probably low-single digit so it will be growing at the levels we've been able to grow it shows that we're getting good market penetration.
So nothing to read into that.
Inc.</strong> Okay all right.
And the $80 million booking non-repeat that affected -- I'm just looking through your release here -- which business did that affect I'm sorry? Scott it was -- it's Dick Guiltinan the $80 million of the pipeline in order in EPD in oil and gas.
Inc.</strong> EPD.
That's kind of where I wanted to ask you.
So what you're saying here is that that was an OE order right? Yes.
Yes.
Inc.</strong> So if we look at the 284 versus the 229 that's actually a pretty big delta the other way when you x that out is that -- am I doing the math right here? Yes.
I mean that was an important project to us.
We like those.
And we don't want to suggest we x those out.
But the fact is in your compares and in my comments and in the press release we talked about the fact that we didn't have really any large project orders.
So that's one of the better indicators of the underlying market is when you kind of look past these projects because they can certainly impact the quarter in terms of whether they are there or whether they are not there or whether they move from one quarter to the other.
It's really the underlying business that gives you a better sense of the market trend.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
So I guess the last question would be along the lines of some of your outlook statements which in tone appear to be incrementally more positive.
And maybe I'm understating it with or around bookings so -- and as well as around pricing.
So if I were to maybe put that together would it suggest that -- and I know you don't get into the bookings guidance business I'm just asking if the second half is it -- or are you more optimistic about your second half bookings today than you were let's say a quarter ago? That's kind of question one within that.
And maybe question two Mark you have talked about some of the things that you are expecting to kind of bring the company back to a 16% 16.5% peak operating margin that we saw a couple of years back.
Has anything changed in your mind? Is that a number that -- I'm not asking when we would get there but is that still a number that you're thinking that you can get back to with an improvement not only in the booking cycle but in the pricing cycle that you're now potentially seeing? Wow that's a double-guidance question that you asked on this call Scott.
Wow I mean normally you'd just go for one.
You're going for the fence.
No we -- I mean my comments around the markets are just those and -- but they are long term.
It -- and it's really driven around infrastructure spend.
As we get over the back half of the year a lot can depend on one project moving into next year versus this year.
But just underlying that we're seeing some improvement overall in the markets.
And really the emergence from the cycle that were -- has been roughly going around 3 years.
That's not to say that if there's another disruption if you think over the couple of years there's been quite a few disruptions in our industries the oil spill in the Gulf the things that we talked about this year.
So I think generally what you heard in the tone was that -- like the announcement yesterday we're getting better visibility on some of these projects that we know and have a sense are going to come online over the next 3 or 4 years because they need to.
And I think the other thing is just the underlying industries while the global growth is slow and people have different views it will drive spend.
When you go back to the margins what you and I talked about when we were together a couple of months ago is when you look at where margins were and I think you referenced that over a couple of years ago what's changed what's the same and what's different? I think what's changed clearly is the pricing environment and on -- particularly on large projects.
They're competitive now.
And we can't say whether it's going to get back to that pricing environment that existed in the '07 '08 time frame.
But as you look at things that have changed within our control overall in our business obviously we've realigned and optimized some of our capacity.
We've focused on some costs.
We still have some work to do.
A lot of the things that you see in that cycle dynamics that we've been working on to try to do that and really position the company to even be a better company that it was in 2008 and 2009.
And we'll see where market pricing goes from that standpoint.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
Last question the balance sheet's liquidity -- I know you get asked this all of the time Mark.
But obviously it's required a little bit more working capital expenditure to meet the demand and obviously the slower AR for the reasons that you've pointed out have hurt working capital.
But I guess a would you expect working capital turned over to improve in the second half of the year? And I don't mean in absolute terms because obviously the fourth quarter is a very good number.
But just sort of on a trailing basis on a trend line basis would you expect that to improve? And b with what the cash build could potentially be after the fourth quarter any ideas on how we start to deploy that capital later this year 2012? Scott it's Dick Guiltinan.
Let me try the first one.
I think very clearly we look at the receivables situation right now and recognize that to some degree it's a matter of really working the blocking and tackling making sure that they were working closely with our customers and driving to get us back off of that kind of 80-day DSO back to a kind of more normal rate like we saw last year other quarters.
Inventory again that's just continuing to drive our operational excellence and drive our execution on the backlog and then driving turns again a little bit to lower level of turn right now relative to history.
And that's our target to kind of get back there.
I think down on the second one we're going to -- as we have kind of balanced our 3 primary constituencies that's our customers our employees and our shareholders and a part of it is there has been and there still is to a certain degree value and optionality around cash in the markets that we're in in the environments we'll be in and the opportunities that are out there.
But we're also sensitive to the fact that we need to manage those constituencies well by giving returns to the shareholder both direct and indirect.
And what I mean is dividend and share repurchase.
But also making sure we can invest in certainly organic opportunities and externals as well.
So we'll review that and you know Scott our typical cadence is we really to look at that balance sheet at the year end when we do a lot of our strategic planning and our capital planning.
And that's what we talk about at the beginning of the year when we do that.
So that's not to say we won't think about that before then we think about it constantly but that's typically our cadence.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Caplan with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Mark I just want to clarify something I thought I heard you say which was that -- did you say that some of what was being worked off of the backlog continued to be some of the prior more attractively-priced projects that were still coming through? Did I hear you say that? No.
Now we actually -- I think our commentary has been those prior those -- let's just call them '08 pricing for nomenclature those are gone.
And that's really more in the year-over-year compare Wendy.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And again how long do you expect this less favorably priced business to penalize the margin? What should we be expecting? Well it's going to be around what are the delivery times on the projects that we've talked about.
They've certainly come in.
But I think on the long cycle highly competitive projects which is a portion of our long cycle business we can see the effect of that going into at this point the middle part of next year.
Now one caveat to that Wendy is on some large projects.
If the pricing environment were to change at some point in the future large projects we do percentage of completions so there will be some aspect that will come through quicker.
But generally if you just think of it on a cash basis that we think -- when we talk about the long cycle and particularly the large project business that pricing starting to improve or whatever it is when we talk about that at that point there is roughly -- there is going to be about a year lag in general.
There might be some percentage of completion that comes through.
And where you see the immediate benefit obviously is in the aftermarket and the short-cycle business as well that will tend to come quicker.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
And Dick a working capital question.
First can you just describe the difference between a project delay and a customer driven delay? And if you could tell us whether those were a meaningful part of the working capital increase? Yes Wendy.
In some instances yes customers will either be slow in scheduling inspections or slow in releasing the final project on the basis of documentation or other matters.
And we just need to work with them as careful as we can to get our documentation absolutely to their requirement and work through getting them to release the shipments.
So we've seen some of those delays and a little bit of that is sitting in finished goods.
Some of the other project delays in some instances supply chain issues and as we went through the process of -- the supply base kind of consolidated due to the financial downturn now as demand starts ramping back up some of the supply base is struggling both in terms of performance as well as on-time deliveries.
So some of the supply-base delays are related there.
And then in some instances we just have to get the projects out and that we've been delayed internally for our reasons.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Sullivan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Question on the -- in the IPD group.
I think in the queue you mentioned that there were some operating inefficiencies that also impact margins there.
I was wondering if you can expand on that a little bit? Yes.
Jamie it's Dick.
I think -- just like we talked about with EPD some project delays I think there were a small number of IPD kind of -- same kind of delays.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And is that -- so I know last year when there were some hiccups there were some lost bookings was that -- did that happen again this quarter or was it more just a one-off in certain projects? I think just as Tom talked about a little bit of legacy issue I think as we've gone through the overall realignment process and gone through that effort there have been some delays and that's impacted us.
I think simply put what you're hearing is we are pleased certainly with our operations.
There are some that need to improve and those are the ones that we're specifically calling out to you.
LLC</strong> And can you quantify the impacts of margins to that segment on some of that? I know you did it for like the Middle East in some of those is there a number you can help us with? We tend not to try to break down plant -- we look at obviously plant-by-plant and cost of sales SG&amp;A line.
But we don't do that externally.
I think the thing to focus more on IPD is where we're going to take the margins to.
We did tell you it was going to take some time.
So while you referenced the term hiccup last year keep in mind when we're making all the changes we're making there'll be some impact on operations.
But we see they are going to improve as well.
And also I think the other commentary just to help is Dick's remarks and it was primarily in EPD around some of these project delays and how we take the negative impact of that and really bring it forward into the quarter.
And as -- really you have to kind of look forward on those things.
So we do see that as we get the backlog out that we've talked about which a lot of it is sitting there.
Some of it as I mentioned in my comments is delayed.
As we drive that out a lot of these issues will clear over the remaining of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
This is Chris Parkinson on behalf of Hamzah.
Just a quick question.
You mentioned pricing was firming a bit in some of your bidding activities.
So when these projects do return can you give a little bit more color on how margins will progress as some excess capacities absorb over time particularly as you've made significant efforts to enhance your operating structure? Well I think to Wendy's question earlier on the large project long-cycle you will get some benefit from absorption and everything like that.
But it will take roughly a year before those go through.
And keep in mind that's not all of our OE business.
So from time to time folks say are the supplies to the 60% of your business on your 60-40 mix or whatever it is.
Really this is more of the large projects within EPD.
They have some long cycle and some short cycle business as well.
A lot of the FCD business is more short cycle although they do have some projects.
I think what -- on the shorter cycle it's obviously quicker because the price -- the bid price or the booking to revenue is a lot quicker.
So those will move through.
But in general what you'll see is that as -- the contribution of the large projects will take a period of time from the time the market changes for you to start seeing that in the margin flow-through.
The short cycle business will tend to give you the lift not only in the pricing but in the absorption as well because those are high-volume facilities that really can benefit from the absorption or more sensitive to absorption up and down.
Then you've got the aftermarket business.
That's just good solid business that you grow the top line and it will accrete margins because it's a high-margin business.
And then the remaining focus on the -- what I'd call the fixed cost structures so that we can cascade those increased revenues in that improvement across more of a fixed-cost structure.
Perfect.
And just to kind of a -- a second derivative question on that as far as the aftermarket is concerned can you give us a little more color on the growing importance of having aftermarket capabilities within the regions when you're bidding for these larger projects particularly in emerging markets let's say Saudi Arabia Brazil and so on and so forth? Yes.
This is Tom Ferguson.
It's absolutely critical.
It's something we've used over the years to help differentiate ourselves.
But it helps in many ways.
One it allows us to provide service to the customers in places like Saudi Arabia so especially to Aramco; in Mexico to Pemex; in Brazil to Petrobras; in China to Sinopec those kinds of things.
And I -- so I think whether that gets highly evaluated in -- on a project that's a lump sum turnkey with the EPCs or not it definitely gets us on the approved vendor list.
It allows us to work the service aspects of a project.
And then to ensure that it starts up well and that we've got resources on the ground to improve the start up of the facility.
And then finally in the longer term it allows us to continually offer them new solutions to get not just parts out of the installed base but to get the large portion of the aftermarket that comes from repair and then continually upgrade that equipment over its life cycle.
So more and more  our customers are looking at that and saying "We need you on the ground with us because we don't have as much capability as we used to have." And they want to focus on producing oil or on producing refined oil products or chemicals.
So it's continuing to increase in importance.
Your next question comes from the line of William Bremer with Maxim Group.
My first question deals with the aftermarket.
Let's stay there.
Can you give us some color on the aftermarket in terms of pricing? Very nice growth that you specified throughout the call but we're seeing a lot of your competitors gunning for this business.
Are you able to hold pricing in your aftermarket? It's shown to be a relatively stable pricing business over a number of cycles.
Great okay.
And then going into -- the industrial IPD segment.
Margins 4.3% you're targeting 14% to 15% over time.
How can we look at these operating margins over the next few quarters here? Is this the base at this point? Are we going to be pulling back and seeing a little bit of an upswing here? Yes Bill the only guidance we really want to give on IPD is margins is the ones we've talked about in our target at 2015.
And what you -- but what -- notably what you've seen in this quarter was the additional charge we took in connection with our European operations.
And as Tom commented there's a little more that's left as we complete that effort.
But if you're looking at the margin for this quarter one of the primary impacts was that charge.
Right okay.
And we'll have another $1.3 million hit in the next quarter there.
And this next question is for Tom Pajonas.
Tom in terms of pricing for your segment what are you seeing out there? Well I mean it's variable very similar to what Tom has described on let's say the more longer cycle business of ours it's still choppy and very price competitive.
And we expect that to continue.
As Mark described on the aftermarket that tends to be a little bit more stable and we're able to get that value-added because we have those feed-in services on the ground next to the customers.
So I would say on the aftermarket stable pricing.
And in terms of let's say the other shorter-term business we have mixed results.
We have material pressure that does come into play.
You heard also a little bit about the supply base capacity that's starting to get a little bit tight around the world.
So those things will continue to come into play and will have an effect on the short term as well as the longer term business.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
I just want to -- a quick follow up on the realignment charges.
Is that all going to fall -- remaining into Q3 or will slip into Q4? And can you remind us what your original guidance was for total realignment costs because that's gone up right with the IPD European restructuring? Yes.
Charlie it's Dick.
The original -- the first 2 programs approximated $92 million.
We've spent about $88.5 million so far.
There's a little bit to bleed through in the last couple of quarters of this year.
And because there've been a facility relocation there'll be a little bit that bleeds across into the following year.
On the new IPD incremental cost I think it would be maybe fair to say at this point we're still in consultation with the works council.
So I don't think it's -- if I can clearly say kind of when that cost flows through at this point.
If your question was around this year's guidance I think we were -- original we're roughly around $5 million.
And so what you see in connection with the IPD is additional to that.
It was not contemplated in the original guidance.
That's kind of what I was getting to.
So your guidance is unchanged but effectively it embeds more realignment expense than you originally had.
Yes.
I mean to your point there's things we anticipated and didn't anticipate.
What we obviously didn't anticipate was some of the charges we talked about and the -- and this additional realignment.
Flip side is we've gotten a translational benefit from currency.
The one thing I will remind you and Dick made this point is the below-the-line benefit we get in currency comes -- there's an offset in backlog.
And that will come through the P&amp;L.
So it's not a one -- necessarily a onetime benefit.
It has an offset in the backlog which when the dollar weakens what it will do is it will compress margins gross margins because it goes right through cost of sales.
So I think as you kind of think about -- because we anticipate that people are -- think about -- help me think about where you are in January and where you are now we didn't anticipate certainly the headwinds in North Africa.
Those weren't contemplated as well.
So we've overcome quite a few things this year.
We've certainly gotten a translational benefit not the mark because that will come back through.
But we've gotten a translational benefit from currency.
Those are really the puts and takes at a high level.
This was not in our guidance originally.
Your next question comes from Robert Barry with UBS.
Just a quick one.
Last quarter you suggested that the M&amp;A pipeline was getting more active and you seemed to be getting more active looking at it.
Could you just update us on that please? It's more of the same.
I mean there's certainly some opportunities out there.
We just want to make sure we're thorough and selective.
As we look back I'll reference the one we made roughly a year ago the Valbart acquisition we're real pleased with that.
I know it's had some impact on margins and everything like that.
It's a lot -- the way you account it for business when you bring on and how you bring it on.
But I think Tom's comments are the most important.
It has given him a good leg into the oil and gas business.
And that business itself has -- he's been able to grow it.
And that's why you make these a strategic acquisitions.
And is it something of that scale that you'd be most likely to look at or would you look at larger things as well? Well we look at the really the full range.
It -- the driver is going to be around our strategic intent which you saw on our presentation in January.
But then we also look at really issues around bandwidth and integration.
So that's really our criteria.
What we do in -- towards the end is look at the size of it and really how we're going to finance it.
It's really going to be more around product opportunities strategic fit.
And that really relates to a whole range of potential opportunities out there.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mike Mullin.
Thank you Michael and thank you all for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michael and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn today's conference over to Mr.
Mike Mullin.
[Audio Gap] 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast with our earnings presentation via our website at flowserve.com.
Simply click on the Investor Relations tab to access the webcast and the accompanying presentation.
For those of you that are listening to today's call through our dial-in phone number and also wish to follow along with the earnings presentation slides via our website please click on the Click Here to Listen Via Phone icon at the bottom of the Events Detail page.
The webcast will be posted at flowserve.com for replay approximately 2 hours following the end of the call.
The replay will stay on the site for on-demand review over the next few months.
Joining us today are Mark Blinn President and CEO of Flowserve; Tom Ferguson President of the Flow Solutions Group; Tom Pajonas President of the Flow Control Division; and Dick Guiltinan Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer.
Following our commentary we will begin the Q&amp;A session.
Regarding any forward-looking statements I refer you to yesterday's earnings release and the 10-Q filing and today's earnings presentation slide deck for Flowserve's Safe Harbor statement on this topic.
All of this information can be found on Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
I encourage you to read these statements carefully with respect to the conference call this morning.
The information in this conference call including all statements by management plus our answers to questions related in any way to projections or any other forward-looking statements are subject to Flowserve's Safe Harbor.
Now I would like to turn it over to Mark to begin the formal presentation.
Mark? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our solid third quarter performance despite continuing challenging macroeconomic conditions.
We had high revenues across each of our 3 business segments improved our operating income and reported higher earnings per share over last year.
We also posted double-digit growth in our bookings versus prior year as demand improved in several key markets.
I thank our employees whose hard work played a significant role in our solid performance this quarter.
Our short cycle business remains strong with increased volume in the chemical general industries and oil and gas markets and stable opportunities in our power markets.
In our long cycle business we saw a steady improvement with smaller projects but the very large projects remain competitive.
Although our long cycle business is stabilized we continue to see some customers delay the release of certain large infrastructure projects which we expect will ultimately go forward.
Selective bidding on the large infrastructure projects which have been released has helped us firm up our pricing.
We delivered record quarterly aftermarket bookings underscoring the success of our end-user strategies which are focused on supporting our customers' repair service and upgrade needs.
These strategies which include our global QRC footprint allow us to offer our customers' repair and upgrade services when and where those services are needed.
Bottom line is that our focus on expanding our global QRC footprint and growing our service capabilities is paying off.
Operating margins and overall profitability were up in the quarter as a result in part to our continued discipline in driving SG&amp;A efficiency and controlling costs.
One real success in this area has been the reduction of our corporate SG&amp;A expenses.
We were also pleased by the improvement we saw on our IPD operations where our recovery plan is starting to take effect.
We continue to work towards achieving our goal of IPD operating margins between 14% and 15% by 2015.
Overall I am very proud of what we accomplished this quarter and the progress we have made but we still have areas for improvement.
We are very focused on our operating metrics including cash flow and working capital both of which Dick will discuss in detail later in the call.
And we are also very focused on improving our operational performance which is a key driver in our organization.
During the quarter we announced an agreement to acquire Lawrence Pumps which we expect to close shortly.
Lawrence Pumps provides us with engineered severe service technologies which are critical to many of our oil and gas and petrochemical customers.
We are excited to welcome Lawrence Pumps into Flowserve and we believe we can leverage our global QRC network and global sales force to expand the reach of the Lawrence products and capture unrealized aftermarket potential.
The Lawrence transaction is a good example of our disciplined acquisition strategy as we remain focused on bolt-on acquisitions that have a close strategic fit provide new flow control technologies to our product portfolio contain synergy and unserved aftermarket opportunities and are positioned for rapid growth by leveraging our strong global sales and manufacturing capabilities.
We currently believe that we can best enhance shareholder value through these types of tuck-in acquisitions.
While we always look at newly arising opportunities we have no major acquisitions in our current plan since they are inconsistent with this bolt-on strategy.
We also continue to focus on increasing shareholder value by returning cash to shareholders through share repurchases.
As many of our long-term holders know since 2007 we have essentially completed our first 2 share repurchase programs even during the financial crisis in the fall of 2008.
We've done this while continuing to invest in positioning the company for future growth around the world by realigning operations in mature markets and investing in new facilities in emerging markets.
Given our strong anticipated liquidity position we have the flexibility to take full advantage of this repurchase program to return more value to our shareholders.
Like everybody else we are carefully watching current macroeconomic developments including the events in the Middle East and North Africa the EU sovereign debt issues and the U.S.
economic growth concerns.
Accordingly we remain ready to quickly respond to changing market conditions.
We are also focused on our attractive short-term growth opportunities.
A few examples of growth opportunities are shale oil Brazilian upstream oil production Australian natural gas Asian power generation as well as upgrade and maintenance work in North America and Europe.
As we look medium to long term we are hearing from our customers and seeing from external market research experts that more broad-based demand for oil and gas electric power water and petrochemical is projected to grow during the next 3 to 5 years.
With our global aftermarket capabilities and our expanding presence in key emerging markets we are well positioned to take full advantage of both these short- and longer-term opportunities and we are targeting our resources accordingly.
As we close out 2011 and look forward to 2012 I am confident that through our disciplined execution of our strategic plan we are well positioned with our broad product capabilities increased backlog global presence including our strength in high-growth markets and strong aftermarket position.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dick to provide more details on the financial results for the quarter and our outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Dick? Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone.
Our third quarter EPS of $1.92 per share included about $0.08 of negative currency effects primarily related to cash flow hedges.
Also included in the third quarter EPS is $0.02 from realignment costs.
Offsetting these headwinds was a more favorable tax rate of 22.9% for the quarter.
Our third quarter bookings grew 15.9% on a year-over-year basis.
Looking at this growth more closely original equipment bookings were up 12.9%.
The original equipment increase reflects continued improvement in the short cycle OE markets driven primarily by strength in the chemical general and oil and gas industries.
Bookings in the long cycle OE markets remain stable reflective of both steady to improving smaller project activity and our increased selectivity and competitive large project activity.
Aftermarket bookings of $488 million were up 20.3% year-over-year representing a quarterly record for aftermarket bookings.
These results which were driven by continuing investment in our global QRC network our growing due to greater Technical Services business and continuing successful execution of our end-user strategy show how we continue to leverage our local presence to capture a larger share of this valuable business.
Third quarter consolidated operating margin was 13.8% representing an increase both year-over-year and sequentially.
These increases were driven by increased sales volumes from strength in our short cycle and aftermarket businesses improvement in SG&amp;A leverage and cost controls.
These benefits more than offset revenues from a small number of large projects with very low margins as well as negative currency effects on certain U.S.
dollar denominated sales generated in our non-U.S.
facilities.
We have seen pricing trends firm in our short cycle businesses due to volume improvements and in our long cycle business due to increasingly selective bidding which should provide additional margin support going forward.
The book-to-bill ratio in the third quarter was 1.03 reflecting a broad-based increase in bookings and solid execution on shipments.
Our year-to-date bookings and shipments resulted in consolidated backlog of approximately $2.8 billion up about 8.4% over the end of 2010.
About 25% of the backlog relates to aftermarket orders.
In considering our full year guidance we expect the lost opportunity related to ongoing disruption in the Middle East and North Africa will extend through the end of the year.
There will also be a small dilutive effect related to the acquisition of Lawrence Pumps.
As a result we have narrowed our 2011 EPS target range to between $7.45 and $7.85 which anticipates a continuation of the recent foreign currency rate environment.
Turning to the bookings and industry outlook which compares bookings performance for the year-to-date 2011 and 2010 by industry you can see on Slide 5 that much of the 2011 bookings performance has been driven by chemical and general industries which continues to increase in both absolute and relative terms.
These figures further demonstrate the increasing diversity and sustainability of our business platform.
Regarding the sales and regional outlook Flowserve's strong presence in all global regions and strength in emerging markets continued to be a major contributor to the third quarter sales growth.
Notably in the third quarter we saw the largest increase in activity in the Middle East and relative stability in the mature markets of North America and Europe.
The next slide shows year-to-date bookings and sales mix.
You will note that our original equipment and aftermarket bookings mix for 2011 and 2010 are roughly comparable which is consistent with the third quarter result as well.
Sequentially the average booking mix remained constant at 61% original equipment to 39% aftermarket although there was more variability in the divisional mix which will be discussed later.
Given the significant growth in aftermarket the stable mix is reflective of the strength of the short cycle business and the smaller project long cycle OE business offsetting the more competitive large project long cycle activity.
Turning to Q3 2011 consolidated financial results sales for the third quarter increased 15.4% on a year-over-year basis and was sequentially comparable to the solid sales levels of the second quarter.
The sales increase was driven by FCD and IPD broadly and EPD aftermarket sales particularly in its mechanical seals products.
Gross margin performance in the third quarter of 33.6% was impacted by revenues from a small number of large projects with very low margins and negative currency effects from certain U.S.
dollar denominated sales generated in our non-U.S.
facilities.
Currency considerations are important in understanding year-over-year margin comparisons particularly within EPD.
These factors were partially offset by a slight mix shift to more aftermarket sales in the third quarter 2011 and savings from continuous improvement programs supply chain and realignment.
The increased SG&amp;A expenses for the third quarter of 2011 reflected currency impacts and higher selling related expenses resulting from increased sales volumes in all 3 divisions.
However more notably SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales in the third quarter of 20.1% was down 130 basis points over the third quarter of 2010 showing how our cost controls increase the leverage of our SG&amp;A in driving sales even as we continue to invest in growing the company's global capabilities.
Operating margin for the third quarter was 13.8% or 13.9% when adjusted for realignment costs again showing both the year-over-year and sequential improvement.
Other income expense net included the effects of foreign currency volatility which resulted in foreign currency losses of about $6 million in the third quarter and a foreign currency gain of about $8 million.
Other income expense net included the effects of foreign currency volatility which resulted in foreign currency losses of about $6 million in the third quarter and a foreign currency gain of about $8 million for the year-to-date period.
In the first half of 2011 the strengthening of the euro against the U.S.
dollar resulted in substantial currency gains a trend that reversed itself in the third quarter of 2011.
By way of comparison in 2010 the weakening euro against the dollar and the Venezuela bolivar devaluation resulted in large currency losses.
As we've discussed before a positive mark on our cash flow hedges in previous quarters leaves an offsetting effect in our gross margins as we saw in this quarter.
While we have a year-to-date net benefit from foreign currency as clearly shown by the adverse currency effects of the third quarter currency markets remain volatile.
The tax rate of 22.9% for the quarter reflects a more favorable net impact from our foreign operations and resolution of matters in certain jurisdictions.
Turning to cash flow.
While our third quarter cash flow from operations was generally consistent with our normal sequential trend the third quarter results continue to reflect additional working capital being deployed in the business.
Operationally and consistent with the second quarter the accounts receivable reflect growing trade in progress billings that you would expect with increasing short cycle sales and backlog.
I should point out that we receive progress billings on short cycle orders as well as on large OE projects.
However collections were a little slower impacted by longer negotiated payment terms on projects coming out of long cycle backlog and general market conditions in which companies are increasingly mindful of cash flow and opportunistically lengthen payment periods.
However I want to emphasize that we see no real deterioration in credit quality or equally important the ultimate collectability of our receivables.
Inventory balances decreased modestly but the accelerating pace of orders and high backlog levels remain as significant drivers.
We continue to work through some delays on a few projects some supply base capacity delays from our vendors and also some customer-driven delays.
Optimization of working capital continues to be a sharp focus as we execute more efficiently on our growing order book.
We expect improvement in working capital levels in the fourth quarter which is historically our strongest operating cash flow quarter of the year as the majority of the delayed projects should be shipped.
Capital expenditures were about $23 million in the quarter and our capital expenditure outlook for the year remains unchanged.
Cash flows from financing activities include the normal periodic repayments on our credit facility and cash return to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Our closing cash balance of $228 million resulted in net debt of $280 million.
Our ending cash position and available access to credit continued to provide us with the financial flexibility to fund future growth and drive improvements in our business.
Additionally our recently announced $300 million share repurchase program provides us the ability to continue returning value to our shareholders.
Turning to primary working capital as I just discussed and consistent with the second quarter the increase over the year primarily supported the bookings growth in our business.
We continue to work through some project delays which have influenced past due backlog and tougher negotiated payment terms which have contributed to the build and working capital.
At the end of the third quarter we began to see past due backlog trend downward due to our efforts to optimize working capital by targeting past due projects.
And we remain highly focused on reducing past due backlog by year end.
Now I will turn it over to Tom Ferguson to cover FSG operations.
Tom? Thank you Dick and good morning.
Flow Solutions Group grew bookings nicely in the third quarter by focusing on our end-user aftermarket strategies and strategic growth initiatives.
The market opportunities continue to be mixed with strong activity in most power markets the chemical market and upstream oil and gas.
The aftermarket opportunities remain strong and we continue to redeploy resources to pursue these.
Overall the project business remains competitive and we continue to approach opportunities strategically in terms of balancing pricing discipline project win rates and market share targets with factory loading considerations and long-term business considerations.
And while large project pricing remains very competitive we have seen stabilization in the pricing environment.
We were pleased to announce the agreement to purchase Lawrence Pumps which is a premium brand name in the oil and gas sector.
Their products are well known for their reliability in harsh critical service applications.
This is consistent with our strategy to grow and deliver value through bolt-on acquisitions.
Lawrence Pumps will become part of the EPD portfolio.
In our Industrial Product Division we continue to gain momentum on bookings and sales and began to see improvement in operating margins.
For the Engineered Products Division Q3 bookings grew by about $70 million or 14% with 19% growth in the aftermarket and 5% growth in original equipment even with continued selectivity.
Activity levels in our core market sectors were mixed as the chemical and general industry markets grew as did the power market other than nuclear which continues to experience weakness in new projects.
We were pleased once again with our aftermarket business which continued to strengthen.
Service and solutions opportunities continue to grow as our Integrated Solutions offerings have gained interest from customers focused on energy efficiency and operating cost reduction.
Sales were up 12% primarily on strength in the aftermarket but with year-over-year growth in original equipment as well.
The gross margin reduction was primarily caused by the effect of a few isolated large projects flowing through revenue at very low margins as well as the margin compression from the negative currency effects of certain U.S.
dollar denominated sales generated primarily in our European facilities.
This impact was partially offset by the sales mix shift to higher margin aftermarket sales and certain operational efficiencies.
We are highly focused on shipping several delayed major project orders by year end which as Dick discussed has weighed down our margin performance.
Operating income margin fell to 16% driven by lower gross margins.
While original equipment bookings grew 5% in Q3 versus prior year the aftermarket bookings grew significantly by 19% due to our focus on offering integrated technology-based solutions to our customers and continued growth of our QRC network globally.
Original equipment sales grew 7% in the quarter and were complemented by strong record sales growth of 16% as we continued to see results from our emphasis on customer-driven solutions.
Overall bookings were up nicely for the quarter versus prior year as I described earlier.
While we see fairly stable oil and gas upstream and petrochemical opportunities on the horizon the Fukushima incident has caused some nuclear projects in the opportunity pipeline to be canceled or delayed.
Other power projects such as fossil gas solar geothermal and biofuels are proceeding and present opportunities for bookings growth.
Many of our recent product development activities have remained focused on product lines for greener energy generation.
Compared to Q3 2010 aftermarket sales growth in North America Latin America and EMA continued to show strength.
There was also a slight sales and margin impact from the events in North Africa and Japan.
These are important markets for EPD and we continue to monitor the different situations very closely as we believe that short-term disruptions may precede opportunities to help our customers to recover and rebuild for the long run.
In the face of the competitive pricing environment we continue to focus on lower-cost sourcing cost management and productivity improvement using our well-established continuous improvement programs.
We also positioned for growth to take advantage of opportunities as they develop.
We continue to invest in more strategic localization efforts by growing our manufacturing capabilities in Brazil India and China and expanding our engineering capabilities in India.
Our expanded QRC network and our differentiated aftermarket offerings continue to drive growth in the aftermarket.
The Industrial Product Division is showing momentum as we saw bookings and sales growth during the quarter and made further headway in achieving our long-term goal of achieving 14% to 15% operating income by 2015 as we continued with activities during the third quarter to optimize certain structural parts of IPD's business.
In Q3 bookings were up 10% on strength in EMA and Australia and activity in the global chemical power generation and oil and gas markets.
Sales were up over 22% primarily on original equipment shipments in the Americas.
Gross profit was up around 21% versus prior year primarily due to higher sales and strong aftermarket shipments while gross margins were slightly lower.
SG&amp;A was down 250 basis points as a percentage of sales driven by cost containment and realignment benefits.
Operating income adjusted for realignment was up around 65% year-over-year to $17.5 million.
Overall operating margin of slightly over 8% excluding realignment costs was up 210 basis points versus Q3 2010.
This was primarily due to higher sales volume and SG&amp;A controls.
Original equipment bookings were up 14% in the quarter and 14% year-to-date versus prior year.
OE sales were up 15% and aftermarket sales were up 39% versus prior year as we continued to see improvement in our short cycle business.
We are continuing on our path started in the second half of 2010 executing a focused recovery plan under IPD's new divisional leadership.
We continue to focus on operational improvements and we have accelerated key realignment actions to refocus the business with our growing served markets.
I am confident that we have set the division on the right path for recovery and I'm seeing continued progress.
I'm satisfied with the performance of FSG as a whole given the challenges we faced this year from the unexpected external events in Japan and North Africa.
We continue to expand our aftermarket capabilities align our product offerings with growing markets and make our operating footprint more efficient.
Coupled with the capability and leadership of our people I believe we continue on the right course in this market to achieve strong financial performance.
And now over to Tom Pajonas to cover the Flow Control Division.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
This is Tom Pajonas and I'm pleased to report another quarter of solid performance in the Flow Control Division.
Very briefly on the financials Q3 2011 bookings of $410 million were up over 22% versus prior period with strong growth in chemical oil and gas and general industries.
Regional booking growth came from North America Europe in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Q3 revenues were up almost 18% versus prior period with strong growth in North America in particular Canada; Europe specifically Russia; the Middle East; and India.
Q3 operating income was up almost 40% versus prior period with operating margins of over 17%.
Gross margins were also up 130 basis points in this period.
Backlog was $779 million at the end of Q3 2011 an increase of $84 million versus prior period 2010.
The book-to-bill ratio in the third quarter was 1.11 following a strong book-to-bill ratio of 1.14 in Q2 and 1.12 in Q1.
We remain committed to on-time delivery to our customers and achieved over 90% on this important metric for the third consecutive quarter.
With the exception of the OEM customer channel the EPC end-user and distributer channels all grew in bookings and sales in Q3 2011 versus Q3 2010.
All channels including OEM grew on a Q3 year-to-date basis versus prior year.
Aftermarket bookings increased over 50% versus prior year to $66 million while aftermarket sales for the division increased 25% over the same period.
Overall the Flow Control Division demonstrated its ability to be flexible in the current macro environment.
In our industrial markets the chemicals industry continued to see strong order growth in North America.
Chemical distribution business was also up in North America.
Much of the chemical growth again came from MRO smaller selected capacity increases and upgrades rather than from larger project activity.
There were however increases in coal gasification projects in China.
The oil and gas business continues to see good year-over-year growth in bookings.
Project orders in the Middle East Australia Latin America and China have contributed to the Q3 growth.
We saw the usual seasonal slowdown in aftermarket orders in July and August however September brought an increase in activity especially in the U.S.
Quick Response Centers.
Project orders came from upstream including Brazil FPSO and China oil platform projects; midstream such as pipeline work in the Middle East Australia Latin America and China; and downstream involving Middle East refinery Southeast Asia refinery expansions and Australian LNG process plants.
While the oil and gas market is choppy the proposal activity remains strong with new capital projects in the EPC stage in coal bed methane gas development projects petrochemical projects in the Middle East and general pipeline projects.
In the power industry a number of countries including the U.K.
U.S.
India China France Korea and others have all continued to support nuclear power while 2 others Germany and Switzerland have announced plans to close existing plants in the future.
We reported earlier that China had delayed approving any new nuclear power plant projects while a safety review of existing and under construction plants was completed.
We believe that China will continue its nuclear construction program under tightened safety standards.
This review is reportedly near completion and should be published this year.
The U.S.
nuclear MRO market continues to be driven by life extensions and operates.
Life extensions have the effect of extending current MRO activity while upgrades result in the purchase of new equipment to support higher power output.
Fossil power in India and China continue to be an active part of their energy policies.
Increased activity in the natural gas combined cycle market is taking form based on renewed natural gas availability.
In general industries the pulp and paper market was strong in South America with activity also increasing in China and Asia.
In Russia the district heating business was up significantly on a year-to-date basis.
However distributed business specifically related to the district heating market has started to moderate in part due to the seasonal slowdown in the previous distributor inventory buildup.
In the area of cycle times overall lead times are becoming more critical in the oil and gas business specifically in the aftermarket.
Turnaround projects have shortened construction schedules resulting in requests for accelerated deliveries.
Our continued emphasis on supply chain management and developing emerging markets will play a critical role in the lead time performance area.
In summary based on the strength of our third quarter and year-to-date performance we will continue to position FCD to drive growth in the various regions across the world to capture and leverage the aftermarket and to continue to provide value-added solutions for our customers.
And now I'd like to turn this back to Mike.
Thanks Tom.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I would like to turn it back to Mark for a quick comment.
I wanted to update you on our search for a new CFO.
As you know last June Dick Guiltinan announced his intention to retire in 2012.
A few months ago we began an external search for a new CFO.
Our search is progressing well and as we previously stated we expect to conclude our search process by the end of 2011.
I would like to publicly recognize Dick Guiltinan with deep appreciation for his continued service as our CFO in the interim.
He is doing a very nice job of handling the CFO duties this year with our strong financial organization and internal control group supporting him.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
If you could just look at EPD business for a minute and the gross margin there the impact from large projects those few projects flowing through can you give us some idea of what the impact on the gross margin was when those get kind of flushed through the backlog? Charlie let me -- you just hit a high level just to be clear and Dick can give you some more context.
These are projects and we talked about in the choppy environment we've seen really over the last 2 years one of these was in '09 frankly where we wanted to make sure we got this installed base for future aftermarket opportunities.
So we have a couple of these that are coming through for ultimately delivery.
And when they get delayed it tends to push margins down.
So as we talked about we're expecting to get these things out a lot of them at the end of the year and some into the first quarter of next year.
By the end of first quarter then it sounds like the real low low margin back -- project ought to be out of the backlog? Well as we talked about you've seen on earlier releases we haven't taken a lot of large ones in the last couple of quarters.
Actually the last big one we really talked about was the Yanbu refinery and that was -- it was competitively bid but certainly a sole-source deal where it has great installed base from aftermarket and we were able to get our seals in on that project as well.
So when we talk about what we're seeing in the environment around the selective bidding and just getting these projects through I mean think about it as you look over the last couple of years our industry has cycled down.
We were fairly disciplined and these are the kind of things you see as you kind of work your way through the cycle.
But to your point some of these things that have been in our backlog for a while we're getting out the door and moving on.
Okay.
And I guess a similar question on IPD with the gross margin kind of down 20 bps but you had a pretty substantial 400-basis point move towards the aftermarket in the quarter and I guess I'm just trying to square that up.
Generally that ought to be pretty favorable to the margin.
What's the disconnect there? Charlie the offset there is we did see an increase in material costs in IPD and that tended to offset the impact of the favorable mix.
And we didn't make a big deal out of this.
We have one fairly large facility in IPD that does have dollar-denominated contracts with euro revenues.
But for the most part it's what Dick talked about.
And are you able to put through any pricing as we go into 2012 to offset those input costs? Yes.
You're seeing companies are ultimately able to match the price to the input cost as well.
I think the most important thing as you look at their overall trends Charlie is as what Tom talked about is getting the efficiency in the plants getting the global supply chain processes intact and just keeping control of their cost.
So our view is more of what you can see in the improvement of that is within our control than overall market driven.
All right.
One more I'll hop back in the queue here.
On the EPD and IPD discussion I didn't hear Latin America mentioned a whole lot.
Can you give us an update on what's going on in Latin America with those 2 businesses? And then maybe an update on the Brazil factory that's in process.
I'll just tell you briefly and Tom can chime in.
I mean there is a lot to talk about.
Latin America has been certainly a great arena for us this year.
We just want to try to keep our comments to the 30 minutes frankly but we've certainly seen good growth there.
As you probably know we've been there for a long time.
So when you talk about emerging markets Latin America is a frontier we've been at for many many years.
It's actually a lot of our -- we have some facilities that have been there over 50 years.
India and China tend to be more new frontiers for us.
So we have a very well-established management team and a lot of experienced folks down there.
And we're certainly seeing -- we're really harvesting the opportunities.
And a lot of that is being driven by the fact that we've taken that -- the aftermarket model we've talked about that was successful particularly in the Gulf Coast region and driving it down there and then expanding their product offering.
And then that goes right to the Brazil plant.
That's what our customer wanted down there.
And as we've been building it we expect to complete it what Tom over the next couple of quarters? Yes next couple of quarters be fully open.
And Mark covered it pretty well but we are making investments in our facilities in Argentina and Mexico and Colombia in both on the EPD and IPD side.
And I think we're also expanding and continuing to expand our aftermarket capability in the region and focus on building out as Mark said the end-user focused model that we've had on for some time in North America and other parts of our business.
We're really pushing that hard in Latin America.
And Charlie I would add on the FCD side with oil and gas business in Latin America increased versus prior quarter as well as the chemical.
And then the pulp and paper business was also a good increase versus prior period for FCD.
Charlie one other thing I'll add.
It's important to note about Latin America and as we look at China and India and these emerging parts we also not only design these to support the local markets but we have a strategy where we also take -- have them support our other facilities around the world with more high-volume manufacturing and what that does is allows those facilities to focus more on engineering assembly and test in some of the base manufacturing moves to some of these facilities.
So when you look at that Rio facility it's designed to offer a broad array of products to the local market where a local content is required but it will also along with as Tom talked about our facility in Argentina and Mexico they will also be supporting our operations around the world to basically drive cost efficiency overall in our manufacturing throughput process.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Barry with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You talked on the working capital slide about some specific action plans to ship projects by the end of the year.
And just given you've called out many of these as kind of customer-driven delays I was curious kind of how much control you feel you really have over getting them out the door.
Robert there's clearly some customer-driven delays but I think what we also tried to say is that we have some past due projects in backlog that we need to clear out and that there are also some issues around documentation within our control that we need to work through to satisfy final customer requirements.
Those are the bulk of what we're dealing with and that is clearly within our control and program as we said earlier to work through during the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just sticking with the working capital I mean whenever you think about say call it year-to-date the degree to which it's gone up.
It sounds like from your commentary that the vast majority of the growth in the working capital was related to growth in the business.
Is that a fair statement or could you kind of bucket kind of roughly speaking the relative impact of the drivers the business growth the vendor delays the customer delays? I think it's fair to start by saying that clearly the strength of the growth in the short cycle and aftermarket businesses over the last several quarters is the primary driver.
You can see that in our raw materials.
You can see that because of the short cycle and our work in progress.
Having said that there is an element of past due backlog we need to clear.
That's the other piece of kind of our inventory build again all within our control.
I think as we think about building in our accounts receivable again that short cycle business really started to ramp up in the fourth quarter and we saw the bulk of the build in accounts receivable kind of first second quarter as those orders started to flow through.
So sales growth I think is a big piece of that.
And as I said the past due backlog is clearly the majority of that is going to go out the door.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally on FCD that very significant growth in the aftermarket bookings I think in the Q you might have also cited a large pulp and paper project.
How much of that growth related to that one project was there anything kind of unique driving that? I would say the large pulp and paper project was a project in Latin America driven by the cycle in that whole industry which is increasing both in terms of Latin America as well as Southeast Asia and China so that came across pretty good.
We did see a growth good growth in the MRO business overall for the division.
A lot of that MRO business does go into the aftermarket business and also MRO business increases in the nuclear side as they look at electric expansions and upgrades as well as chemical MRO business was strong in North America in particular.
Robert it's kind of worthwhile to take a step back and just look over our history if you followed our company for years.
We saw traction years ago in what was our seal business at that time in terms of aftermarket processes built the infrastructure more important built the capabilities around that.
And then you saw the pump business which was a separate segment a couple of years ago get the traction as well.
Both of those are now in a sense FSG and they're going.
And now FCD is also able to leverage some of those process as well.
So what you're seeing in general is that it's spreading across our business a lot of these disciplines and capabilities and we're able to leverage our overall platform.
Your next question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just a question on the aftermarket.
Could you maybe talk about how much share you're gaining in that business and how much running room there is for you to service your own installed base that you're not doing right now given what you've done in integration on the Flow Solutions side and the Quick Response Center buildout? Is there a way to tell how much are you gaining relative to how much is due to just the underlying demand or economy if you will? Well as we've talked about the economy demand has been relatively flat certainly in the mature markets.
So the conclusion a lot of that is penetration really penetration and share gain.
When we talk about that our opportunity to capture more of our original equipment is being driven by our presence and our capabilities and also where you're seeing the complexity of equipment migrate to.
Clearly and Tom talked about this on the last call integrating pumps and seals right basically got a more unified face to the customer that can offer a broader set of solutions and that's what customers are going to want.
So that integration is really paying off in terms of the aftermarket penetration.
So what you're seeing here in the growth is I'd say better penetration in the market better presence in terms of our capabilities leveraging our QRC network that we've talked about and a lot of the strategies to capture more share of the customers' wallet around the aftermarket.
When you talk about share as we talked about before in many instances the customer will service or repair the equipment themselves.
There tend to be local machine shops and everything.
And those tend to be our biggest competitors in terms of aftermarket opportunities.
In the way we work with them with the customers is to make sure they know we're as responsive as their own shops can be and not only just look at repair but look at upgrade and efficiency opportunities as well.
Also with what I'd say the local competitors they've been out there for a while.
But as the equipment gets more complex and more critical in terms of the process we do see increasingly that customers if they don't service it themselves would prefer that we service the equipment.
So a long story to say there's an element of share from really the customer and to a certain degree the local machine shops.
I think there's really around execution of strategy leveraging the FSG platform overall and it's just a big focus of ours.
It's a focus around the way we approach these big projects as we've talked about before to get the installed base work on getting sole-sourced work on standardization with our customers.
So there are a whole list of initiatives that we are doing and we are going to do that are designed to drive this aftermarket growth and we've been really pleased with the results.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And the second question if you could talk about how investors should be thinking about excess capacity right now in the marketplace you've seen larger projects margins got compressed.
How do you think excess capacity gets absorbed over the next couple of years? What's your view there? Well my comments on the call when I talked about medium and long term there's going to be more demand.
And our view is that that will -- that demand is going to consume capacity because frankly when we look at how we've laid out our capacity and we understand our competitors are very capable competitors they're looking at that demand as well.
So what they've done is plan the demand for those capacity -- for those project opportunities that are out there so we estimate.
And again I made the comment earlier this is what you see in the cycles in our business.
And remember this started to cycle down during the end of 2008 and a lot of that capacity while there was some rationalized there was some additional I'd say emerging market capacity that came on in 2009 and 2010.
Now those emerging market areas had seen good growth which have tapped some of that capacity.
So I think as we look forward from here in terms of capacity is once the markets -- we keep an eye on what's going on in the eurozone and everything.
I think the world sometimes is concerned that we might be in a situation back from 2008.
But as that starts to clear we're confident these projects will come online and take up capacity.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just the last question on capital allocation you talked about not doing any large deals if I heard correctly.
Are there any further product gaps? I know you bought Lawrence and Valbart.
Is there anything missing in your portfolio right now? Well there is -- certainly there's product opportunities.
It's a matter of whether we can get -- whether we want to develop them.
I mean a good example is the ISO standard chemical pump which we developed.
So when we evaluate product gaps we're going to sit back and look at our portfolio and we have a very broad portfolio in terms of the products that we offer but always look for ways to enhance that product portfolio.
And what that does is that gives us the ability to leverage our sales force as we talked about our manufacturing.
But more important the more products we have on a project especially like the Lawrence equipment is severe service critical application equipment where that again to my comment earlier to you the customer is going to look to us and say we want you to take care of this because if it doesn't work efficiently or doesn't work at all the facility has a problem.
So as we talked about these bolt-on opportunities we'll continue to evaluate but we'll evaluate them versus do we want to build them and what's the time to market.
That was the example on Valbart and we've seen good success on that acquisition not only on what that product has been able to do.
But keep in mind also that pulled through quite a bit of control valves as well.
And we expect Lawrence will be able to do that similarly.
So that's the way we're going to evaluate the opportunities traditional buy versus build look for the growth opportunities.
And really the goal at the end of the day is drive value through our entire company for the benefit of the shareholder.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Sullivan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Last quarter you talked about -- it seemed that there was some increasing confidence and visibility on projects being decisioned for new bookings.
So just wondering given the macro over the last few months if you've seen any change in customer behavior about decisions and their willingness to move forward.
What Tom talked about on the call is the nuclear.
I think that's less macro and more around everybody is going to reevaluate the safety standards.
The sense we're getting from talking not only to customers and externally is there may be some countries like Germany that we talked about that may move away from it.
But in general nuclear represents plus or minus 20% of the power supply.
And they're not going to be able to diversify away from that over the short or medium term.
So we do get the sense that they're going to go forward.
But as you can imagine everybody is going back and evaluating the safety standards safety requirements and we think ultimately that will benefit us in terms of being a top-tier supplier to the nuclear industry.
In general I don't think I mentioned on the call what's going on in the EU and other parts of the world.
It's not that the projects that we see out there are immune from that but it can cause folks to wait and see a short period of time.
But frankly when we take a step back and look at it we know these projects need to come online.
I mean they are being driven ultimately if you look through them completely by population growth aging infrastructure energy independence it's certainly what you're seeing in Brazil and the Middle East as well.
You even heard the Middle East despite what you saw in the Arab Spring in Saudi they've announced both upstream and downstream projects.
So they will move forward.
But people do keep an eye short term to see if for example what's going on in the EU can create any kind of short-term dislocation in the markets.
That's why we certainly keep an eye on it.
But I think it's very important that we continue to deploy our resources be ready to respond in case something does occur but be ready to deploy our resources as the projects come out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more on Lawrence I think when you closed the deal you mentioned roughly $0.05 dilutive in the fourth quarter to the initial purchase accounting and step ups and whatnot.
Is that still a good number to think about? We said less than $0.05 is I think what we said.
But we haven't -- we're going to close on it shortly.
We got to close on it and do the purchase accounting.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Maczka with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Mark you mentioned the selective bidding a couple times on the call.
I'm wondering if you can say a little bit more about that and how significant of a pricing and margin driver that might be.
And I'm just wondering is that selectivity on your part in terms of choosing which projects you bid or is it selectivity on your customers' part in terms of who they allow to bid? Well our customers and this serves us well are always selective as to who they let bid especially in a critical project and we think that's certainly an advantage.
But the comment was more towards our selectivity.
If you remember on the last call what I talked about and if you think about there is a cyclical nature of our business is when you get into the environment that you saw in 2009 and 2010 there was a lot of competition for projects.
And a lot of the primary focus is going to make sure you have your factories loaded and also to make sure you keep your eye on strategic projects that will ultimately bear some of the aftermarket and repair work that you ultimately want.
Well as things -- as you move through the cycle in our industry what you can see is especially as the short cycle starts to build in the support of our aftermarket business we've been able to take a step back.
Also we have a more efficient platform as well.
It's given us the ability to manage capacity -- certainly our capacity with a long-term view and be more selective.
And again we have to watch these macroeconomic events but typically you will see the trend -- these type of trends in the industry as they start to recover from cycles.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And a separate question on raw material costs.
There were some commentary in the release and on the call about that.
Can you give an update on that? I would imagine that's reversing for you now or will be shortly.
And can you just update us on your supply-chain initiatives? I know that's a big part of your continuous improvement.
Well let me start with the raw material costs.
We did see some increases but overall trends you would think would start to reverse over the next couple of quarters.
And I think in our -- we particularly commented in IPD that those material costs over time should cycle through on the pricing side.
On the supply chain...
I'll add some things.
I mean there's -- supply chains go through cycles as well and what you're seeing is a lot of our supply-chain effort and it's benefited us has been around making sure we expedite because if you look at some of our supply base they took capacity out as well particularly when you look at castings and some of the large drivers in the industry and they're adjusting to the new environment.
So a lot of our focus certainly this year has been around making sure we work on expediting so we can meet the lead time requirements that we have.
And we talked about earlier that focus also is around making sure that we can manage this past due backlog.
But in addition to that we've also been focusing on improving the overall supply chain and we're kind of reinvigorating our focus on that now as we do see some of the suppliers start to recover from their efforts in terms of making a more efficient platform.
I think the other thing more important to note is if you look at the IPD business one of the things we talked about last year around breaking it out was to bring -- take it from more of an I would say a custom-engineered model because this is engineered equipment in EPD and start to leverage global processes.
And one of those is the supply chain component themselves.
And Tom mentioned he's got the leadership team in place so that's one of the areas of focus.
Again these are things that are within our control that we've had the heightened focus on is to start to drive the IPD improvements give it those supply chain resources as well.
And it's no small matter that in FSG they have a new supply chain leader in the organization.
Real capable individual.
As a matter of fact he came over from the valve division.
Talented guy.
And Kevin I would add to what Mark says.
A lot of effort going into supply or development particularly in India and China.
Southeast Asia also is an area that we're continuing to drive and certainly a lot of low-cost sourcing initiatives overall.
And then I would say successfully we're going into some more value-added lean areas with the suppliers as well as a lot of cycle time initiatives as that cycle time becomes more and more important to us in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally for me I guess yesterday everybody got excited about again about global growth and IPD that's your shortest cycle business.
It's CapEx-driven.
They had a strong quarter.
Was there anything you saw there over the summer months or elsewhere that indicated any kind of slowing at all? This is Tom Ferguson.
Not really.
We've seen good activity in the chemical sector and mining particularly.
And those projects continue to move forward in the pipeline.
So those are what are creating opportunities for us in IPD and a lot of our focus.
The only thing that we haven't seen a lot of new spend on is in the water segment.
That's been fairly quiet in terms of overall infrastructure spend.
And we haven't seen a whole lot of new things going on there.
But in terms of desalination that's starting to -- or has been more active.
Chemical has been more active mining has been more active and we haven't seen any signs over the summer that that's changing.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Graham with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about cash flow.
It looked like you had an improvement this quarter versus the year ago quarter.
But I also know you're far from satisfied there.
There are 2 things seemingly affecting cash flow.
One is sort of the management of some of these receivables.
But certainly I think the larger issue is more internal process with inventory and what have you.
I was just wondering if you could kind of unbundle for us some of the things that you're doing on the inventory side and I know that you guys are very big on productivity as well.
And does it require more implementation of CIP before we get that inventory turn to improve or can the inventory turn improve more quickly? Well one of the things I think Dick made the comment earlier that one of the biggest drivers on our working capital and cash flow has been the growth in our business especially you know there's kind of a annual cycle to our business that we intend to build a lot of work and process and historically a lot got shipped towards the end of the year.
I mean having said that and I think the other element that we talked about contributed has been some of the past due backlog which we're working to ship as well.
So those are I would say the more current event-driven things around our business.
Underneath that absolutely we're focused on the working capital side which really is the big contributor to cash flow.
Some of the things that Tom talked about around supply chain and that is making sure that we have our suppliers well developed so we know when to expect the casting or the motor.
And that helps you manage your inventory levels more carefully as well.
So in general and we've talked about this before when you have a book-to-bill greater than 1 overall in your business that will tend to start burning your working capital as we've talked about.
We have some projects -- a handful of projects that we've taken in over the last couple of years that are not only weighing on margins but also we have inventory and work in process around them.
And underneath that as we mentioned yes we are definitely focused.
And it's part of our operational excellence.
I mean it all fits together making sure that we're focused on how we can get more efficiency overall in our cash flow as well.
Just anecdotally some of the other things Scott is back in the '07 '08 environment you were able to command a lot of upfront cash on these projects.
And we're actually able to still do that to a certain degree but not to the level you could do back then.
We talked about at that point sometimes they put 50% down to lock in a manufacturing slot.
And that environment doesn't exist.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Let me ask this question maybe even more broadly.
You guys are I wouldn't say -- tuning may be too strong of a word but it looks like the large project sort of penchant for the company has maybe given way a little bit to focus on smaller projects which are more profitable and what have you.
I guess my question is if we look back at that same period that you're referring to Mark we had a cash conversion of net income kind of in the 70% to 80% range typically.
And I'm wondering if this change in the way we're booking or I should say the projects that we're booking does that help that number or hurt that number? On the cash conversion? Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's right.
Yes I mean all other things being equal a shorter cycle you should have more relative cash conversion.
And it depends on what period you look over.
I mean we're sitting here at the third quarter and you got to look it over over a rolling 4-quarter period.
But typically shorter cycle unless there's a big book to bill a big build on it in which you've seen that will tend to -- it converts to revenue and it's shorter cycle.
It turns -- it returns the revenue and ultimately cash quicker.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Would that mean then that maybe sometime in 2012 we can get sort of into the 80% to 100% conversion range do you guys have an internal goal on that? Well we have a goal.
It's an important part of our operating metrics and compensation program.
So we absolutely do have a goal.
I think a lot of that as we take a step back is going to be what the large project environment is at any given time.
I mean if you think about it we have seen growth in aftermarket we have seen growth in our shorter cycle.
These large projects are still important because that's the installed base for the aftermarket.
That also pulls through a lot of the short cycle business.
There is certainly a link between EPD and IPD when we go and approach a project.
So I do think they're all linked.
But generally what I can tell you is we talked about our focus.
Building the backlog to support the business as our bookings grow and everything is good.
It's good for our customers but we need to focus on making sure we do that efficiently.
One is to focus on our past due backlog.
Second thing is also to focus on our operating metrics and supply-chain capability.
So our goal is to increase the cash flow generation overall in our business.
And just keep in mind that sometimes our cash flow is strongest related to net income when our book-to-bill is less than 1.
And you saw that back 2009 and to a certain degree in 2010.
If you kind of look through it when the book-to-bill goes below 1 it tends when you cycle down your balance sheet starts to liquidate.
Your next question comes from the line of William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> My question deals with your sequential improvement that I'm seeing on your operating margins very very nicely there.
Given the fact that you've called out the fourth first and second quarter coming on some of these larger projects coming to fruition how should we look at the operating margins in the FSG segment going forward as these projects become realized? Well I mean let me just give you some high-level views on Q4.
Typically historically Q4 has been a large shipment quarter because we do -- there is this annual nature overall to our business cycle and so you do see a lot of more original equipment go out at that point in time but you also get fixed cost leverage.
So those are kind of the balances is in our business.
Also historically you've seen the first quarter because Q4 historically has been a strong shipment month tends to be lower shipment.
So you get less fixed cost absorption but you may get better mix profile overall in the business.
I think frankly as you look overall in our business we're focused on cost controls related to margins as well.
We're focused on growing the aftermarket.
One of the things that we've talked about is weight on margins is getting these projects we took.
They were a handful of projects strategic projects.
They are going to bear aftermarket fruit.
Getting them out of our backlog and then starting to realize the benefit of some of the pricing discipline that Tom talked about.
And equally important the growth in the short cycle business and very important in our aftermarket business.
But we're really focused on making sure that we look across our SG&amp;A and particularly our corporate cost to maintain efficiency as you've seen us do this year as our business has grown.
Research Division</strong> Mark would you say you'll have more of an impact in the fourth quarter or still as you mentioned you still have maybe in the first half see some of the realization there the majority of which we're saying will be realized in the fourth quarter coming? Majority of what? Dick? I think you're referring to what we said about some of the large the delayed -- large delayed projects that we said the majority of which will ship.
And by majority which we do mean we expect the bulk of what's in that past due backlog to move through at the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
And then one for Dick here.
A little surprised with the tax rate here.
I haven't seen the tax rate that low since the third quarter of '08.
What should we be looking for let's say the balance of fiscal '11? And can you just give us a little more color on what regions impacted that tax rate so low in this quarter? Yes Bill a couple of things.
Normally our foreign operations provide us with a benefit.
In this quarter we particularly due to the mix of the jurisdictions had a more favorable benefit than we normally have seen.
That was part of it.
Also part of that is related to some tax planning strategies that flowed through.
And then the third piece of that is what we normally see from time to time is favorable resolution to tax matters or lapses of statutes a little bit heavier than maybe we've seen in the first couple of quarters but that's because of the more favorable benefit on the foreign operations.
So Bill just to highlight.
75% of our business is outside the United States and these -- particularly in the emerging areas and they tend to have a much better tax profile than we do here.
So as we generate more income in those areas that tends to drive our reported tax rate down.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Beach with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the project pipeline that you're tracking right now are you seeing any end markets that are showing increased activity so that as we look out into '12 there'll be another new 1 or 2 end markets that began to pick up in bookings and help this momentum forward? Well you'll get a couple of comments but generally actually this year and I think you've heard other folks say it Brazil actually dialed back a little bit on their spend mainly because of concerns over inflation and also there's a lot of activity going on around the World Cup and the Olympics there.
But we expect that to go forward I mean they -- if you remember last year Petrobras issued a substantial amount of equity to buy reserves and they need to realize the economics of those reserves.
So we see that certainly as an opportunity in that region.
And also you're seeing with Russia start to invest as well overall.
So as we look macro in our business what we still think there's good repair and upgrade in United States and Europe and we'll see how they move through.
I mean the news yesterday from the United States was somewhat encouraging and you saw the markets how they responded overall.
But as we look around the world you see China with their increasing demand demand for infrastructure and India as well I think those markets are still supportive.
Tom do you have any...
I think Mark's covered the geographies pretty well but I would also highlight that we like what's going on in the greener energy generation sectors like solar and biofuels and also geothermal.
And then there's a lot of combined cycle activity on the power side as well and we think that has to continue to grow.
So that looks good.
Desalination there was kind of a lull in some of the spend there but we see a lot of opportunities in that market.
And then mining has continued to be active and looks like it will remain so.
So when I look at some of the markets that aren't quite as core to us but that present opportunities those are areas we've had a lot of development product development for and it's because we see long term well and even short- to intermediate-term opportunities.
And then on the upstream oil and gas there's a lot of spend.
I would also highlight that on the downstream oil and gas side China and India have been kind of quiet on the new activity.
And that probably has to break loose at some point.
So we continue to be very vigilant on those opportunities.
And just adding just a couple more broad categories.
In the natural gas area anything to do with gas to liquids is an area that a lot of people are looking at.
Pipelines would be another area.
And then certainly the chemical business as it looks at that gas as a feedstock both in the Middle East and China and elsewhere could be areas to look at.
We have now reached the allotted time for questions.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mike Mullin for any closing remarks.
Thank you Michael and thank you all for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Quarter 4 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mike Mullin you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to Flowserve's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast with our earnings presentation via our website at flowserve.com.
Simply click on the Investor Relations tab to access the webcast and the accompanying presentation.
The webcast will be posted at flowserve.com for replay approximately 2 hours following the end of this call.
The replay will stay on the site for on-demand review over the next several months.
Joining us today are Mark Blinn President and CEO of Flowserve; Tom Pajonas our Chief Operating Officer; Mike Taff our Chief Financial Officer; and Dick Guiltinan our Chief Accounting Officer.
Following our commentary today we will begin the Q&amp;A session.
Regarding any forward-looking statements I refer you to yesterday's earnings release and 10-K filing and today's earnings presentation slide deck for Flowserve's Safe Harbor statement on this topic.
All of this information can be found at Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
We encourage you to read these statements carefully with respect to our conference call this morning.
Now I would like to turn it over to Mark to begin the formal presentation.
Mark? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our solid 2011 results and I am proud of the work our employees have done to position us to take advantage of what we believe are improving end markets.
Looking at our 2011 financial results bookings were $4.7 billion up 10.2% versus the prior year.
We ended 2011 with our highest fourth quarter backlog since 2008 in spite of geopolitical challenges and considerable currency headwinds.
Our aftermarket bookings grew 9% in 2011 demonstrating the success of our end-user strategies which include ongoing investments in our global QRCs as well as our strategic localization efforts.
Earnings per share were $7.64 up 11% versus prior year.
Our margins were negatively impacted by lower margin large projects booked in 2010 and early 2011 as well as incremental costs associated with a few delayed shipments.
Despite these margin headwinds we had positive operating income improvement on both a year-over-year and sequential basis as we continued to tightly manage cost.
Our 2011 results demonstrate the execution of our core strategies around global localization near key customers and resource allocations towards higher growth markets.
Towards those strategies we continued our efforts to reposition our people and capabilities in growing regions of the world and we are seeing the benefits of these efforts in the bookings growth in emerging markets.
We expect this trend to continue in 2012 in light of our additional investment in Brazil China India and Russia.
We also executed on our inorganic growth strategy in 2011 through the acquisition of Lawrence Pumps.
In 2012 we will continue to seek out similar bolt-on opportunities where we can purchase well-respected engineered technology that complements our product portfolio has good brand recognition in an underserved market.
We look for opportunities where we can leverage our global sales force and aftermarket platform to grow the business and pull through additional products.
Additionally we recently set in place a new COO leadership structure which will help us drive our One Flowserve initiative.
We are seeing that increasingly our customers want to face one supplier.
Our Shell frame agreements are a great example of that trend.
Our new structure will help us leverage our product offering and aftermarket capabilities for our common customers across common markets and more quickly respond to the global trends we are seeing.
We will also drive expense leverage and common processes through our unified organization.
Tom will give you more details on his plans around the new structure and where he sees opportunities for leverage and operational improvement.
I would just point you to the success we have had in combining our pump and seal groups as well as Tom's success in improving FCD's operational performance and margins over the last few years.
We believe our more unified leadership structure will help us drive a strong culture of operational excellence through a common focus across the company.
Looking forward to 2012 we expect continued momentum in our short cycle and aftermarket businesses and we expect the long cycle business to remain competitive but slowly growing.
We have seen some increased quoting activity around several large mega projects that have been announced or expected to be announced relatively soon.
Although we are optimistic about these projects on the horizon given the long cycle nature of this aspect of our business we will not see an immediate impact on our results as we must still produce lower margin large projects in our backlog in 2012.
We expect the first half of 2012 earnings particularly the first quarter will be [indiscernible] compared to the first half of 2011 primarily due to the impacts of the delayed projects in backlog the strong dollar and the continuing uncertainty in Europe.
Mike will go into the guidance in greater detail later in the call.
Despite these headwinds I believe we are well positioned with our increased backlog to continue to achieve our 5% to 7% revenue growth target for 2012.
The guidance for revenue growth and margin expansion is based on our confidence in our end markets and our proven strategies around targeting growing global regions and markets to capture that growth.
With this increased confidence in our future we recently announced a 12.5% increase in our quarterly dividend on an annualized basis.
This action reflects our commitment to our policy of returning cash to shareholders.
In addition to focusing on profitably growing the business we will always look to increase shareholder value and believe that along with our increased visibility and confidence returning cash to shareholders was an important step in increasing our valuation.
Simply put while 2011 showed good progress we believe 2012 is well positioned to be even stronger.
Before I turn it over to Mike I'd like to thank Dick Guiltinan for all he has done for our company.
It was a pleasure working with you and we wish you the best in a well-deserved retirement.
So with that I'll turn it over to Mike.
Thank you Mark and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to be here and serve as your new CFO.
I'm excited about the opportunity we have to grow the company and create shareholder value.
Before I review our financial performance I would like to thank Dick for the first-class financial team he has put in place and wish him the best in retirement.
Mark provided an overview of 2011.
I am going to add some comments on the consolidated financials talk a little bit about 2011 cash flow and how we have deployed our cash over the last few years and discuss our working capital performance and our plans for improving it.
On the financial results we continue to see momentum in bookings with Q4 bookings growth of 11.3% over the prior year while 4-year bookings grew at 10.2% which I would like to add is the strongest bookings year we have posted since 2008.
Our book-to-bill ratio in the fourth quarter was 0.9 on solid bookings and strong sales.
Our full year book-to-bill ratio was over 1.0 for the second year in a row at 1.03.
Backlog at the end of 2011 was $2.7 billion up 3.7% from the prior year.
Sales in the fourth quarter were up 11% over the prior year and up about 12% for 2011 reflecting the continued growth in the oil and gas and chemical industries and the full year impact of Valbart which was acquired in July 2010.
Gross margin for 2011 was 33.6% which decreased 140 basis points from 2010 in part due to a few large projects with low margins along with some incremental charges on certain projects that have not shipped or shipped late.
As we turn to SG&amp;A you can see cost control continues to be a major focus but not at the cost of limiting our investment in growing emerging regions.
We continue to see the benefits of our realignment programs and cost reduction initiatives.
When you look at SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales the fourth quarter decreased by 130 basis points to 18.4% while the full year of 2011 came in at 20.3% which decreased 70 basis points from 2010.
Operating margin in the fourth quarter was 15.3% reflecting strong leverage.
Operating margin for the full year of 2011 was 13.7% or 14% when adjusted for realignment costs which is down about 90 basis points from 2010 with the SG&amp;A improvement partially offsetting the lower gross margin.
Foreign currency rates continued to be volatile in 2011.
Other income expense net for the fourth quarter included $4.2 million in losses associated with transactions we have entered into in currencies other than our location's functional currency and mark-to-market charges on foreign currency hedge contracts during the period.
For the full year of 2011 we recognized a gain of $3.7 million.
Our fourth quarter tax expense was negatively impacted by a profit mix shift to higher tax jurisdictions resulting in a quarterly tax rate of 30.3%.
We do not view this shift as permanent and expect our structural rate of 28% to 30% to remain intact going forward.
Turning to cash flows.
We finished the year strong as is typical with the seasonality of our cash flows.
We generated $368 million in operating cash in Q4 bringing our full year cash flow from operations to $218 million.
As we have mentioned throughout the year working capital investment has been higher than expected.
We'll take a more in-depth look at working capital in just a few minutes.
On investing activities we had capital expenditures of $108 million for the year as we continued to invest above our rate of depreciation.
We also deployed $90 million of cash for the strategic acquisition of Lawrence Pumps.
On financing activities we returned $220 million to our shareholders in 2011: $70 million in dividends and $150 million in share repurchases.
So on a year-over-year basis our cash balance decreased $220 million as we finished the year with $337 million in cash with a net debt position of approximately 7% of total capital.
Turning to our use of cash [indiscernible] we have a historical look at how we have deployed capital over the last 6 years.
We continue to take a balanced and disciplined approach to evaluating and deploying cash.
We will provide some additional guidance around our expected use of cash in 2012 later in the presentation.
Turning to working capital.
We saw sequential improvement in the fourth quarter however there is still work to be done.
This is an area of focus for our team over the next several quarters.
We made some progress reducing DSO to 75 days at year end.
As I mentioned on our Analyst Day a couple of weeks ago I believe we can drive DSO into the mid-60s.
We also made some progress on inventory shipping roughly 20% of our past due backlog representing approximately $60 million.
I believe there is another $60 million of opportunity within past due backlog which we expect to get out the door in the first half of 2012.
Now I would like to turn it over to Tom as he will talk about the markets and our divisional results.
Tom? Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Before I review the overall markets and the details of the business segments I'd like to discuss the new structure.
As Mark mentioned we are transitioning to a One Flowserve approach.
We will be focusing on product and service platforms as shown and driving those platforms on a worldwide basis within our operating divisions of the Engineered Product Division EPD; Industrial Product Division IPD; and the Flow Control Division FCD.
Each platform will be responsible for product definition manufacturing loadings sourcing lead and secondary product manufacturing strategy sales and execution.
Several process functions like financial systems project management supply chain research human resources and information technology will provide consistency of processes across the platforms.
We're excited about this change as we drive specific focus to each platform on a worldwide basis.
Overall bookings increased from $4.2 billion to $4.7 billion year-over-year.
Bookings grew nicely year-over-year by focusing on our aftermarket strategies and strategic growth initiatives in emerging markets.
Opportunities continued to be mixed with strong activity in most power markets the chemical general industries and upstream oil and gas.
Aftermarket opportunities remain strong as we continue to redeploy resources and increase our capabilities through our services and solutions platforms.
Overall the project business remained competitive.
We continue to approach opportunities strategically by balancing pricing discipline project win rates and market share targets factory loading considerations and long-term business considerations.
Large project pricing however remains very competitive in the current environment.
In the oil and gas area there's a shift of activity towards upstream production.
In particular natural gas has a growing focus even as shale gas finds in North America have kept domestic prices low.
Investments in new refineries continue to be driven by Saudi Arabia China Brazil and India.
Oil and gas production spend could increase mainly because of the depletion rates of current fields and higher costs of developing new harder-to-find oil and gas deposits.
While we expect long-term market growth to remain robust we also see the near term being moderated due to economic uncertainty in Europe.
As a result we continue to view the immediate future as mixed with opportunities continuing to present themselves in the emerging markets.
In power activity is focused on China and India and particularly on the supercritical side driven by reduced emissions and efficiency.
Nuclear power opportunities continue in various countries around the world including the recently announced Vogtle plants in Georgia.
Natural gas reserves have created opportunities for combined cycle power plants particularly in the developed regions like the U.S.
The chemical market in general is focused on the Middle East and China for new construction and MRO activity in North America and Europe.
With recent finds of the shale of natural gas in the U.S.
the use of natural gas as a feedstock has raised opportunities because of its low cost and available reserves.
Refining petrochemical and chemical plants will continue to vertically integrate.
This is due to the proximity of the feedstock and the need of customers to drive more margin in countries like Saudi Arabia the UAE Kuwait and Russia.
General industries including pulp and paper mining and distribution have seen a general increase over last year and have rebounded somewhat from the 2010 levels.
Bookings in 2011 were dominated by the oil and gas industry of roughly 40% with chemical at 18% and general industries at 22%.
Sales for 2011 remain roughly at the 2010 splits by region with North America at 32% followed by Europe at 23% and emerging markets at 45%.
The Middle East continues with the refinery and petrochemical investments even though there continues to be general unrest in some areas.
Asia Pacific continues to drive forward with investments in power driven by the coal-based economies of China and India.
Original equipment and aftermarket bookings and sales saw good growth on a yearly basis.
Original equipment bookings and sales grew 11.1% and 8.2% respectively year-over-year.
Aftermarket bookings and sales grew 9% and 17.6% respectively on a year-over-year basis comparison.
The workforce of skilled engineers with our customers continues to retire at an accelerated rate.
This should result in an increased reliance on suppliers like Flowserve and drive the demand for offerings like our integrated services and solutions.
Over the past 5 years Flowserve has continued to make strategic investments in our most important resource our people specifically in engineering and leadership capability.
Flowserve has added nearly 1 000 engineers over this period representing a compounded annual resource growth rate of over 9%.
In addition Flowserve has trained over 1 200 managers since 2008 in management and leadership foundation courses with nearly 50% occurring in 2011 as we build our leadership bench for the future growth.
Flowserve has grown our employee resource base in emerging markets by over 50% since 2006 with 23% of all employees now located in emerging markets.
Overall we are excited about the infrastructure developments we see across the industries we serve.
Now let's review the various business segments in detail.
The Engineered Product Division grew bookings 12.3% in Q4 versus prior year.
Sales grew 13.8% over the same period.
Bookings growth in Q4 came from the chemical oil and gas power and general industry businesses.
Regionally much of the bookings and sale growth in Q4 came from North America Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Gross margin was 34.5% in Q4 down from prior year.
Operating margins however were 18.7% based on operating and income growth of 12.2% from prior year Q4.
On a full year basis bookings grew 4.1% with solid growth in chemical power and general industries.
Sales grew 7.8% with regional growth in North America the Middle East and Asia Pacific followed to a lesser extent by Latin America.
Operating margin was 17% for the full year in a mixed market environment.
Aftermarket bookings and sales increased both in Q4 and the full year.
Q4 bookings and sales increased 7% and 14% respectively and full year bookings and sales increased 9% and 16% respectively.
Our aftermarket business continues to strengthen.
Services and solution opportunities also continue to grow gaining interest from our customers by focusing on energy efficiency and operating cost reduction.
Overall Flowserve has 450 global customer alliances of which approximately 112 are fee based.
The power market in general saw good growth on a yearly basis in spite of the continuing effects of the Fukushima incident.
Projects in fossil gas solar geothermal wind and biofuels are proceeding and present opportunities for bookings growth.
The chemical market again saw good growth especially with the opportunities that gas presents itself as a feedstock versus liquids.
Oil and gas opportunities continue to present themselves particularly in the Middle East.
Proposal activity has been robust in this area even though the oil and gas business was down about 2.5% from prior year.
Overall growth in general industries including mining and paper provide for good diversification of our product base.
In the face of competitive pricing environment we continue to focus our lower cost sourcing cost management and productivity improvement using our well-established continuous improvement programs.
We also positioned ourselves for growth by taking advantage of emerging markets.
We invested in more strategic localization efforts in Brazil India China and Russia and we continued to differentiate our integrated solution offerings through expanded asset management contract offerings.
We completed our acquisition of Lawrence Pumps and integrated it into the business in Q4.
Lawrence is a premium brand name in the oil and gas and chemical sectors.
Their products are well known for their reliability in harsh critical service applications.
This acquisition is consistent with our strategy to grow and deliver value through bolt-on additions.
Lawrence Pumps is now part of the EPD portfolio.
The Industrial Product Division IPD is improving with increased bookings and sales in Q4 versus prior year.
Orders were up 5.3% in Q4 versus prior year thanks to the increases in chemical power and water business.
Regionally that growth came from North America Europe and Asia.
Sales were up 14.3% in the quarter based on North America and Asia Pacific projects.
Operating margin was 9.1% for the quarter as we continue to work off lower margins in the backlog from prior periods.
We are also continuing to work on increasing the performance and efficiency levels of our IPD plants.
On a yearly basis bookings grew by 9.4% on the strength of the chemical and general industry business.
Regionally the growth came from a strong Asia Pacific and Europe and to a lesser extent North America.
Sales grew 9.7% on a year-over-year basis with strong growth coming from North America Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Operating margins for the year were 7.2%.
We continue to optimize certain structural parts of our business including an increased emphasis on on-time delivery and overall unit efficiencies.
Both bookings and sales grew in the aftermarket business for the quarter and full year.
Aftermarket bookings in the quarter and the full year grew 18% and 9% respectively while sales grew 14% and 17% respectively.
IPD will continue to stay focused on improving operational efficiencies on-time delivery and overall contract execution.
IPD remains committed to reaching its operating margin target of 14% to 15% by 2015.
The Flow Control Division had a solid quarter of performance.
Bookings were up 15.2% versus Q4 with strong growth across all sectors including chemical oil and gas power and general industries.
Regional booking growth was strong in North America Europe Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Q4 revenues were up 5.6% versus prior period with strong growth coming from the Middle East Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Gross margins of Q4 were up 180 basis points versus prior period based on stronger showings in the oil and gas businesses.
Operating income increased 18.3% versus prior year Q4.
The overall book-to-bill ratio was 1.0 for the quarter while the book-to-bill ratio on a yearly basis was 1.09.
On-time delivery to our customers was 91%.
For the full year bookings increased 22.7% over prior year based on the growth in the oil and gas chemical and general industries.
Sales increased 23% versus prior year.
Latin America and the Middle East lead the increase coupled with strong percentage increases in Europe Asia Pacific and North America.
Operating income increased almost 29.3% versus prior year.
Aftermarket bookings and sales for the full year versus the prior year increased 7% and 23% respectively.
In addition all customer channels to the market original equipment manufacturers engineering and procurement and construction end-users and distribution grew in bookings year-over-year.
Overall bookings growth reflected our investments in emerging markets particularly in the Middle East and Asia Pacific along with the strength in our core developed markets.
In our industrial markets the chemical industry continued to see strong Q4 growth driven by smaller capacity increases and MRO activity.
Renewed interest in chemical plants is beginning to form in the Middle East based on their drive to be recognized as a petrochemical hub.
This is also the case in the U.S.
based on the abundance of relatively low priced shale gas.
Germany and key markets in Asia reported strong MRO activity.
We also secured new orders for the silicon chip production for the solar business.
In the oil and gas business we have seen continued interest in the LNG market particularly in Australia and some interest in the U.S.
Gulf Coast region again based on the abundance of shale gas.
Proposal activity remained strong with the gas projects LNG projects pipeline initiatives and Middle East activity.
Shifts from gas to liquid in the U.S.
have been a continued topic in the North American market.
The power market has not yet stabilized.
This is due to the nuclear reports due out of China the continued discussion of the fossil coal EPA requirements in the U.S.
and the overall inquiry and the interest on combined cycle plants.
Solar projects continue being discussed along with renewed interest in biomass projects albeit on a smaller scale.
In general industries pulp and paper in South America continued to drive forward as well as the overall distributor business.
The distributor business increased over 22% year-over-year as this relative market continued to gain strength.
Some project orders were also realized in the steel industry for air separation plants and in other industrial gas applications in China.
FCD's key initiatives will continue to drive our aftermarket and original equipment penetration into the emerging markets particularly in China Latin America the Middle East and Russia.
Our focus on on-time delivery and quality will provide FCD with customer growth platforms for the future.
And now I'd like to turn this back to Mike Taff.
Thanks Tom.
So let's take a look at 2012.
We will continue to be disciplined in our approach to capital deployment as we work to balance and align our growth initiatives with our desire to return capital to shareholders.
Yesterday we announced a 12.5% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.36 a share which is the fifth year in a row we have increased our dividend.
We expect CapEx to be between $120 million and $130 million in 2012 as we continue to grow the business and support our customers.
We expect pension contributions of $20 million to $25 million and have required debt principal payments of $25 million.
We outlined our revenue targets a few weeks ago and expect to see a 5% to 7% growth in 2012 excluding the impact of potential acquisitions.
Moving to our 2012 [Audio Gap] quarter of 2012 is expected to be impacted by some low margin late project shipments booked in 2010 and early 2011 and a reduced level of aftermarket shipments compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Earnings will be further impacted by the effects of the stronger dollar.
We expect negative translation effects given the average euro rate of roughly 1.4 in the first half of 2011 versus the 1.3 we have seen so far this year.
In addition to the translation effects last year we saw from a weaker dollar we also expect the $0.11 gain from a transaction standpoint we saw in the first quarter of 2011 not to recur.
Finally we are reaffirming our 2012 full year guidance of $8 to $8.80 per share including $0.50 of negative foreign currency impact.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Mike.
Thanks Mike.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just around working capital.
Maybe if you could just comment on what levers you're focused on.
I know your targets out there on working capital Mike you mentioned them.
But maybe if you could just talk about what structural challenges you may face in improving that working capital given some of the factors inherent in your business.
Okay.
Well why don't I turn it over to Tom and then to Mike to kind of walk you through it one from an operational and the other one just kind of from a financial targeting.
Yes so Hamzah what I would say on the working capital from an operation perspective I mean what we're going to concentrate on is on-time delivery obviously documentation and the closure of that documentation towards the back end of the contracts.
We're going to look at lead times because obviously that can help also on the working capital as we now deploy more lean into the businesses.
And then basically getting through the units in a high efficiency the throughput overall in the businesses.
Those would be the 3 or 4 operational things that I would concentrate on.
Mike? Yes I agree exactly with what Tom said.
And also we'll obviously address it on the front end too as we go through the bidding process of looking at certain things.
So it's really a 2-phased approach.
One is addressing on the front end as we go onto new orders; and then second is putting some procedures in as Tom mentioned operationally in what's in place today.
As far as metrics to look for I think we ended the quarter at 75 days DSO.
We're going to drive that down into the 60s that's our goal.
It's about $13 million to $14 million for every day we reduce that.
So I think there's a good $100 million out there of monetization on the AR side.
On the past due backlog we mentioned we reduced that by 20%.
We think we've got at least another 20% to go and that would be a monetization of another $60 million to $70 million.
So we've got work to do.
But it's in our sights and we've done it before and we just got to get busy and focus on that over the next several quarters.
And Hamzah I'll just add structurally you asked if you look at this industry back '07 and '08 very strong pricing environment and we use the term that people were basically putting cash forward for manufacturing slots.
So you were able to command more cash at that period of time and that's the one dynamic as you've seen is just gotten more competitive and the capacity we've talked about the ability just to command that market in general us and our competitors has decreased.
I think the other thing is when we talked about this is when -- as you move more to emerging markets high-quality customers on the end but they do tend to pay slower.
So I think those are some of the structural issues that we've seen overall in our industry.
But I think the message for you is as we talk through these concepts of working through the cycle as we talked about and that working through this past due backlog and some of the opportunities Tom has around operations that all fits and the output of all of that is working capital.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And just a follow-up question.
As you look at your current product portfolio are there any product gaps right now that you need to address either organically or acquisitively? And maybe if you could also comment on your thinking around whether -- what your views are on the frac pump market.
I know you're not in that market right now but do you find any other markets attractive right now that you're not in? And maybe also just on the product gap side if you have any going forward.
Well a lot of questions and this is really the subject of a lot of our strategic discussions and I'll try to encapsulate it shortly here.
I mean I think when you look at our product gaps we addressed one opportunistically with Lawrence Pumps.
We've developed the first phase of our chemical pump in the IPD business which was introduced.
We need to bring the next generations to market.
Because on the ANSI standard which is the American standard we have the leading product equipment.
We need to develop more for the ISO standard.
So I think there are opportunities.
Now I don't think there's a product that we look at that we said is going to fundamentally negatively impact our business if we don't have.
It's more around opportunity.
Now when you look at the mining industry or the frac pumps those are strong markets right now.
And you can't be all things to all people.
You've got to look at how you get selectively into those markets consider that they do go through cycles they're in strong cycles right now and penetrate it as you can.
Think about it though when something is really hot to go get it in organically you're going to pay quite a bit for it.
I mean the market is not going to give it away for free.
So I think -- that's how we think about these opportunities.
We have the opportunity to develop some incremental capabilities internally in the Mining business.
We have a good competitor in that area.
They're very good at what they do.
But we always feel the market likes competition and so we seek opportunities to get in there as appropriate.
But again you take a step back.
When you look at inorganic what we want to do is be able to leverage our existing sales and aftermarket platform and be able to realize that return for our company and our shareholders over a reasonable period of time in terms of internal rates of return.
So that's how we're going to think about it.
And we'll keep approaching our product offering.
We're very detailed in terms of how we look at it.
But I think one of the things with all the products that we have we have a lot of technology a lot of capabilities that we can adapt to different markets.
A good example is some of the equipment that we've adapted for the tar sands would not have been thought of 10 years ago 10 15 years ago but that has good penetration up in Canada at this point in time.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Barry.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
One is on IPD.
And I was wondering if Tom could just comment on what he's thinking about for that business.
And maybe it's still kind of early days but that path to 14% to 15% I mean is that going to be kind of back-end loaded? Is there some low-hanging fruit that we could see kind of progress in the next 12 months and then kind of move gradually there? I mean how should we think about that target because it seems like there's still some pretty significant operational challenges in that business? Yes I mean I would say there are some operational things that we have to take a look at.
But the 14% to 15% is achievable over the next 2 to 3 years.
If you look at our coming out of the gate here in terms of 2011 we had good orders good sales.
So I would say the front end of the business is beginning to work well.
Again we have opportunities on on-time delivery.
We have opportunities on the quality side of the business.
Certainly the working capital.
I've mentioned before in terms of the low-cost sourcing this business is shorter terms similar to the Flow Control Division where there's significantly more low-cost sourcing around the world in FCD than there is in IPD.
So that's an area that we can begin to get some additional margin out of.
Certainly some of the things like lean and manufacturing optimization we'll begin to target.
And I would also say the supply chain in general will be an area that we'll provide a lot of focus on certainly in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And then you made a comment in the prepared remarks about Europe.
I was wondering if you could talk about whether since you gave the outlook back in December is Europe tracking kind of weak as expected or is it weaker or stronger? It's pretty much along the lines as expected Robert.
We saw that -- if you look at our bookings EMA was the one that really -- that was negatively impacted last year.
And we've seen kind of a similar approach this year.
The real question is as you take a step back is I think there's consensus that they're going to go into recession.
The question is how long and how deep? And I think a lot of that hinges on how quickly they can take action to basically firewall their credit-related issues and to get an accord amongst the countries as to how they're going to proceed going forward.
You've seen some improvement there but really until there's a firm understanding of how they're going to move forward you wouldn't see necessarily the impact overall in our business.
And I would add I mean Europe on a year-over-year basis was only about 2% off.
And on a quarter-to-quarter basis it was essentially neutral.
The only thing I'd add there Robert is obviously -- we talk about --  a lot about our exposure to the euro and the quantum of the dollars.
But that's not just strictly business that stays in Europe.
That's business we're doing with customers where our contracts are valued in the euro but actually the products go outside the country to other places.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just finally on EPD.
I look at the backlog there exiting the year into '12.
It's about the same as what it was going into 2011.
I know the bookings started to accelerate in this quarter but it’s probably more of a 2013 impact on the P&amp;L.
I mean you think the revenue will grow in EPD this year? Robert I don't want to give guidance beyond what we've given you.
But the 5% to 7% range kind of helps you understand how it will grow across a couple of them.
What you saw in EPD was -- coming into the year it was still as we talked about choppy and competitive.
So you focus in these engineered areas on loading your factories absorption also around price.
But what we talked about in the middle part of the year was we saw some stabilization and increased selectivity.
It was that selectivity in effect that kind of kept it flat if not slightly down on the OE side year-over-year but we continued to drive the aftermarket business.
This is kind of how you manage these big long cycle engineered facilities and opportunities as you move out of a cycle.
So as we look forward what we do have to do and it's in EPD and IPD and a little bit in FCD is clear the past due backlog that's been around for a period of time.
And that's for a number of reasons.
It could be supply base some of the issues that we've had or really some of these projects just haven't come online as originally scheduled and customers weren't anxious to take the equipment.
But that will start to clear in the first half of this year.
We'll work through that.
A lot of that is in EPD and we move forward.
But I think as you look at revenue this year we will remain selective and drive the aftermarket business overall.
And as I mentioned in my comments we do see some of these project opportunities coming back over the horizon.
And with that we think pricing will ultimately follow.
But Robert as we said in our prepared comments we do feel good about the revenue projection and trajectory on in the 5% 7% growth on a consolidated basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Charlie Brady.
Just a couple of quick ones verifications.
On the tax rate first half you're expecting -- would you expect the tax rate in Q1 Q2 to be above that 28% to 30% range? Yes you said 28% to 30%.
I think overall Charlie I think what you'd say is that we feel good on an annual basis that our structural rate will remain in that 28% to 30% range.
Quarter-to-quarter it's going to bounce around.
There's a lot of things that drive that whether it's revenue mix profit mix and things like that.
But on any other basis we still feel comfortable that our structure rate being in that 28% to 30% range.
Okay.
It's not fair then to say that the first half might be a little heavily weighted towards a higher tax rate just because of the mix of shipments going out the door? Yes I mean it's certainly -- it could be.
It's just -- a lot just depends on where that's coming from and all that.
So it's hard to project quarter to quarter.
And I think we really look at our tax rate more on an annualized basis versus a quarterly basis.
Okay.
And did you quantify realignment costs for IPD in '12? No we didn't specifically.
I mean we're -- it's relatively small.
We're pretty much through all that.
We'll have some residual realignment cost a couple of million dollars.
Yes I think most of it is going to be more of larger just paying some bills and cash flows versus [indiscernible] at this point.
Okay.
And then one more just -- I want to look at the U.S.
nuclear market maybe a little more closely and the opportunity there because you had Southern Company come out and get approval for the first 2 to build first 2 reactors in over 30 years.
You've had the NRC come out the past few days proposing new safety regs in the U.S.
You've got the Nuclear Energy Institute out there saying that nuke companies are buying a lot of equipment.
Can you maybe give us a sense of what you view the opportunity in the U.S.
is over the next 2 3 years on the nuke side? Let me just respond with the high level theme and I'll turn it over to Tom.
I mean I think this is what we've been talking about for a while.
Nuclear power represents 20% of the power supply globally.
And if anybody thinks they're going to diversify away from it over a short period of time that's just not the case.
You can see it in certain isolated areas where they've moved away from it in countries but in general this is a viable long-term well-established supply of power globally.
And that's what we try to say as we -- you can see the short-term impacts of some of these things but the U.S.
is a great example.
It's a key source of power.
They don't have alternative ready supplies alternative power and emerging powers.
Those aren't going to replace these base standards of power over the short term.
So it's a high level theme to think globally as it relates to our business.
And I would add to that though Charlie that if you look at the U.S.
there's 104 reactors in the U.S.
A lot of them are coming up for relicensing so that's going to present opportunities for us over the next several years.
The aftermarket parts and services has continued to be robust over this time period because many of these plants are plants that were built in the '70s.
And like you mentioned Vogtle got its construction and operating license just a few days ago and we participated in that particular project.
And that commercial operation is coming up in 2016 2017 for those plants.
And then you also have SCANA which has not gotten its COL yet but that supposedly is coming up for review here shortly.
And that's a plant that's similar to the Vogtle plant in South Carolina 2 plants for that.
And those also have a 2016 2019 commercial operation date.
So I think we’re going to see a mixture of some new plant constructions aftermarket and relicensing going on as we go forward here over the next several years.
When you guys get orders for nuke work is it come out of EPD or Flow Control or is it rather evenly split? Well we have -- I mean if you were to look at the Vogtle and SCANA without getting into the actual details I mean it was pretty equally split.
Valves participates on both of those plants.
Also the EPD group participates on those plants on the pump side.
Obviously on the seal side they go along with that.
So we have both opportunities.
And I think I've mentioned before a typical plant could be anywhere from $60 million to $80 million on a typical nuclear plant not including the aftermarket over the next 30 years.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Graham.
Yes.
Yes and what I would say is this.
Certainly I mean the FCD business has performed well over the last several years but we have a very capable person in there that's been part of the succession planning for the last 4 years.
And I hope and expect based on the objectives that he's been given that he's going to take that business to the next level as it goes after emerging markets and gross margin and those type of things.
A lot of my emphasis because I have -- there is a I would say a different base in FCD right now a lot of my emphasis will be on the pump side of the business.
We've talked about IPD in the past and we have a road to go to get that up to 14% or 15%.
But I think the road largely is in our internal responsibility to get there.
I think the market is there for those products.
We need to get better on the on-time delivery pretty basic.
We need to get excellent on the quality which is what our customers expect that those products get out there and are tested and pass testing the first time and get out to field and work with no subsequent revisions.
So we -- I feel pretty good that we got a view of what needs to be done.
Now it's the amount of backlog that has to come through and it's the length of the projects that will determine ultimately how that margin begins to develop over the next several months.
Let me add a couple of things to both of those.
One is Tom has a -- and all of them has really a good group of people in there.
So one important message is as we look at this opportunity and yes Tom is busy he's always busy but he's got some really good folks to help him out.
And I think that's important to understand as well.
And of course and I made this point in the Investor Day we all have a tremendous amount of confidence in Tom and his team.
And so I think -- I just want to make sure that's very clear here as we look forward.
And then Scott just again on your currency issue.
I mean it was against the full year.
If you look at the currency benefit we got it was rather small for the full year.
But a good way to look at it is there's above-the-line and below-the-line impact.
And look if a dollar strengthens 10% against all of our foreign currencies we have a disclosure in our K.
And if you think about 70% of our businesses in those foreign currencies that's a 7% hit right there on -- as it kind of flows through.
So what's important -- a lot of people get focused on our below-the-line but the currency hits us above and below the line.
It's part of being predominantly an international business.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Halloran.
Research Division</strong> So could you talk a little bit about the price competition you're seeing on the engineered pumps versus the IPD segment? Are you seeing more competition on the pricing side and the more standardized IPD products versus the engineered products at this point or is it pretty broad-based? Well the big -- we've talked about this before.
The big large projects that you see out there are still competitive.
Because if you look at our industry and the capacity which is getting incrementally utilized but that's one of the best and most efficient ways efficient in terms of you can get it get it to that capacity getting that capacity utilized overall in the industry.
It's the heritage of our industry.
It's the old iron concept of our business overall.
It's these big big projects.
And so they're fairly -- they are competitive at this point in time.
When you look at FCD and IPD those can -- it's probably not as broad based.
You may have pricing competition in certain areas.
But you tend to have more pricing power quicker because of the short cycle nature of the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Maczka.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question about these lower margin shipments coming out of backlog.
That's been kind of a key theme for a number of quarters now.
And a few quarters ago we were talking about lower margin business and backlog that was booked at less favorable pricing during the downturn.
And now we're talking about past due backlog which is more related to either a customer delay or an execution issue or what have you.
So I guess the question is are we done with the low margin business that was booked during the downturn? And are we now just focused on kind of cleaning up our own execution or customer delays and working on past due current backlog? Well there’s still both.
And some of them are both.
And what I mean is some of the ones that were booked years ago that they haven’t taken delivery on or are late in delivery those were projects that were competitively priced and haven't gotten any better in terms of their margin profile.
And then you have the projects that were booked in '10 or '11 that are not due to be shipped yet that are still coming through in a more price competitive environment.
And then you have some projects that were booked early part of last year which have run delayed more shorter cycle mainly in IPD which have been delayed in cost.
The general theme is the longer -- and ENCs [ph] know this customers know this.
This is why lead time is so important.
The longer a project stays in the plant the more costs attach to it.
So it's really a combination of the things.
But in general the market-driven impact what you heard from us in the summer was selectivity and stabilization in these bigger projects.
That will take whatever the lead time is but typically a year-plus.
So the market-driven aspect you can start to see clear towards the latter half of this year.
The past due typically comes at the end of a cycle.
Those are the ones that are late.
We're going to -- we talked about -- we really started talking about those on the third quarter call.
We expected to get those out over the next couple of quarters.
Fourth quarter first and second quarter is primarily where we'll get most of that moved out.
So those are the 2 forces that are driving it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you said you moved out $60 million in Q4 and you're planning to do another $60 million in the first half.
But I thought I heard a 20% number on the call today.
Can you explain what the 20% is? Is $60 million only 20% -- or is that 20% of this past due backlog? Yes that's correct.
I mean we’re always going to have some past due backlog.
And we measure that as a term of our efficiency and on-time delivery and all.
And when you have the multitude of projects and the size of business we have we're going to have some of that.
What's happened over the last several quarters is that's gone up probably about up to about $120 million $130 million.
So what we mentioned is that we've shipped about $60 million of that in Q4.
We've got about $60 million additional to get down to kind of our normalized past due backlog which we measure as a percent of backlog and generally kind of best in class is in that 5% to 7% range.
So with historically there's always an element of past due backlog but a couple of things about it.
It's not necessarily all low margin past due backlog.
If you look back in '08 '09 that was not the case.
We had past due backlog.
You will always have it for certain reasons.
Because what we do is we're very rigorous to measuring to the contractual date.
Even though the customer may have asked you to extend it for a period of time it becomes past due backlog.
So we want to keep the metric very very pure so -- what Mike was talking about.
But keep in mind stuff moved in and out of past due backlog in the fourth quarter.
But in quantum that balance reduced 20%.
And again we think we've got another 20% to go to kind of get it below that $200 million mark.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Sullivan.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just a follow-up to the last question on the past due backlog.
Is the right way to think about that the past due backlog that's shipped in the fourth quarter and scheduled for the first half that's the most material impact for instance on margins? And once you get that you're sort of back to kind of a normalized level of where the past due usually runs? Well that's what we anticipate.
What Mike talked about is as we move into the back half of the year we'll get to more normalized levels.
And our expectation is Tom over time will drive those normalized levels to new lower levels.
So we don't -- we're not satisfied.
We're just going back to where we were before.
But I think just a couple of things to think about.
Past due backlog that is late that is comes from a competitive pricing environment is low or no margin type of backlog that goes through.
So I think that's the distinction I want to make is we could have -- we had past due backlog coming out of the last strong cycle and it still had good margin in it.
So I don't ever want to associate past due backlog across the board is 0 or small margin business.
But in this instance what we have is backlog that came out of a competitive environment and that has been delayed.
And those 2 things will compound to a low margin backlog.
That's probably the best way to think about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right that's helpful.
And then maybe just on IPD.
One of the trends this year there was price pressure like in some of the other businesses as well as some higher material costs.
Just wondering how that feels now on the pricing side whether some of that pressure is relieving and how you feel your kind of price cost on the material side is balanced as we go into 2012.
Yes I mean I do think if you look at '11 I mean there was some pricing pressure due to the competitiveness that lingered around there.
We did have some maybe some slightly negative or neutral material.
I think we're probably going to see the material maybe take a slight upswing but that's some of the forecasts that have been out there.
I would say on the short cycle business we've been indicating that seems to be have been rebounding through 2011.
And I would consider the short cycle business to continue maybe with that trend going forward; a little bit different than the longer cycle business where we’ve mentioned that we still have some of that price competitiveness.
And as I looked at Tom's opportunities the market-driven price we talked about.
But I also see that Tom's going to be able to get more pricing powers as he continues to improve the execution because that's one of the primary determinants of price in the short cycle business.
You've seen it in FCD.
This is why we talked about -- look at FCD to see what the opportunity can be in IPD is he drives cycle times down.
And matters of that he's going to get pricing power.
Our next question comes from the line of William Bremer.
Research Division</strong> Let's stay with the FCD for a minute very nice growth year-over-year.
Looking pretty much at the sales for the fourth quarter was up less than 6%.
And the bookings especially on the aftermarket there were down 10% in the fourth quarter.
Is this just sort of like a timing issue that you called out in your release? Or is there something more here that needs to be focused on? Taking a step back looking at the year I mean a big contributor to what you saw on the bookings and sales was the acquisition.
So I think this is why we're excited about the Valbart acquisition.
They grew the business they were able to grow the operating earnings and it was right along our strategy.
It was a product that we needed that we had the platform to deliver and FCD did it and did it very well.
When you typically look at it and you can look over a couple of years you've seen oftentimes Q3 can be stronger than Q4.
I think the most important point on this I can say is we've said we're not a quarter-to-quarter business.
Don't look for a trend overall in FCD or in anything else unless we call it out on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
They had a great year.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rose.
Research Division</strong> Two follow-up questions.
One is if you can comment a little bit about some of the operating initiatives on Lawrence Pumps? And anything that you've seen on the upside or negative in terms of surprises? And then lastly if you can comment on section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act if you've seen any project activity relating to that? Well I'm going to defer on the 316(b) to somebody else in the room because I don't know what it is.
But I can comment generally on Lawrence Pumps.
As you take a step back it was a good operation functioning very well great product.
We've been very pleased with that acquisition so far.
So we haven't broken it out specifically or anything because we've really integrated it into our business overall.
But we're thrilled with that acquisition.
Research Division</strong> How have you started to leverage the sales force? I mean I guess that's what I wanted to get a better handle of is where are you getting the leverage or where you expect to see the leverage? Well if you think about it if you look at us versus a lot of our competitors we have a very broad product offering.
And that's important for we think a concept around balance of plant.
You look at some of these big facilities and Lawrence Pumps is a critical service piece of equipment.
So now our sales force after we train them and they've known about the product many of them have coveted it for many years is they take a step back.
Now they have another arrow in their quiver when they go in and talk about an opportunity be it an original equipment greenfield opportunity a brownfield upgrade and repair or more important on the aftermarket side.
Now they have another product that they can take care of another product that -- to bring into their portfolio.
So what we do with that is it went from a Massachusetts-based with some sales agents around the world to all a sudden it had over close to 1 000 people that were immediately trained in the product and were capable of selling -- capable in selling it understood it.
And they understood it before.
They were well aware of the product.
So that's what the opportunity is on the sales side.
And now if you've been to one of our QRCs I mean it is capable of servicing repairing upgrading one of these Lawrence Pumps.
So now all of a sudden as opposed to the piece of equipment being served by a local agent which is oftentimes the case our sales person there says "Look we'll take this and that and this other piece of equipment to our QRC and take care of it." Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Beach.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about aftermarket.
Are there any new drivers to sustain this I'll say give or take double-digit low-double digit growth that you see emerging here in 2012 into 2013? For example outsourcing is it showing some accelerating trends? And is there anything else that would kind of drive and sustain this good growth? Well I think it's more around market positioning and opportunity.
As we talked about in the Investor Day the external market growth was certainly moderated for this year and stronger in subsequent years.
But I think it's really riding on some of the momentum that we've been talking about up to this point.
I can go through a couple of them.
FCD's further penetration in the oil and gas industry.
A couple of years ago they were heavily concentrated towards the chemical side.
They have now a strong and increasingly stronger position on the oil and gas side as well.
It's pushing technologies out.
It's getting in front of more customers on the aftermarket side.
So it's really more of the same in light of some of the challenges that you see out there around Europe and other regions.
And I would add to what Mark indicated that our coverage in all areas around the world currently isn't the same.
So for instance great opportunities in China and Latin America right now for aftermarket coverage same thing in Russia.
So as we start developing those areas along with the Middle East that will give us opportunities.
We see a lot of clients continuing to move towards I would say total cost of ownership in their overall strategic plan as they look at managing their assets which get us into now more fee-based LCA arrangements with them.
So that's also a good opportunity.
And I would also say as you see the oil and gas business the power business go to more critical applications higher pressures higher temperatures that also brings that aspect into it requiring more maintenance or more governance on the overall plants.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you operator and thank you all for joining.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Q1 2012 earnings conference call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Mike Mullin.
Mr.
Mullin you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to Flowserve's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast with our earnings presentation via our website at flowserve.com.
Simply click on the Investor Relations tab to access the webcast and the accompanying presentation.
The webcast will be posted at flowserve.com for replay approximately 2 hours following the end of this call.
The replay will stay on the site for on-demand review over the next several months.
Joining us today are Mark Blinn President and CEO; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Taff our Chief Financial Officer.
Following our commentary today we will begin the Q&amp;A session.
Regarding any forward-looking statements I refer you to yesterday's earnings release and 10-Q filing and today's presentation slide deck for Flowserve's Safe Harbor statement on this topic.
All of this information can be found at Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
We encourage you to read these statements carefully with respect to our conference call this morning.
Now I would like to turn it over to Mark to begin the formal presentation.
Mark? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our solid first quarter results and proud of the work our employees have done to create shareholder value by taking advantage of our improving end markets including our long cycle business for the first time in several years.
The first quarter played out largely as we anticipated.
Back in February we talked about how the first half of the year would be challenged by a tough 2011 compare due to the now stronger dollar and some large low-margin delayed shipments going through backlog.
We expect those challenging factors to also impact the second quarter but we see improvement in the future quarters as our business cycle improves.
Our first quarter bookings represent our strongest quarter since the third quarter of 2008 in spite of the stronger dollar.
The booking strength was broad based across our end markets most notably in chemical and oil and gas while our water markets remain challenged.
Our commitment to aftermarket end-user strategies and localization continued to pay off with increased aftermarket bookings of 7% or 9% on a constant currency basis resulting in an aftermarket annual run rate approaching $2 billion.
If you recall we remained committed to growth investments during the downturn as well as realigning our business to growth opportunities and as a result are now well-positioned to capitalize on what we believe is a key differentiator.
We are pleased to see our longer and later cycle project business activity begin to pick up as demonstrated by the impressive EPD original equipment bookings.
I am proud of our employees' commitment and focus as we capitalize on the strengthening cycle.
Our strong first quarter book-to-bill of 1.16 resulted in our highest first quarter backlog in 4 years.
I will also emphasize that the expected margin going into backlog is improving as a result of firming markets and Tom's effort to intensify our discipline and enhance our processes.
We have also made progress on challenges around working capital and delivering our past-due backlog.
Work remains but I'm confident that Tom Mike and our operations leadership are driving the necessary operational improvement to improve margins and bring our working capital to more efficient levels.
Looking forward to the balance of 2012 I am encouraged about how the cycle is progressing.
We see increased quoting levels and progress on long planned mega infrastructure projects in spite of lingering macro uncertainty and market softness in Europe.
We are optimistic that this increased activity will result in increased booking opportunities towards the end of the year and into 2013.
Energy development opportunities in emerging regions continue as anticipated while the unexpected chemical renaissance in the U.S.
driven by shale gas development provides additional support to our optimistic end market views.
When we look at the impact shale gas is having on the energy markets globally we have seen significant increase in the number of projects announced to take advantage of this low-cost feedstock with increased project announcements for combined cycle power plants and chemical processing plants in the U.S.
Europe Middle East and Asia.
As it relates to power regulatory clarity in the U.S.
may provide the necessary stability to enable significant investments in domestic power to move forward.
And while desalination projects have been slow to move forward over the last several years improving macro and political environments in key regions should support long-anticipated investments.
While we are optimistic about the present state of our end markets a meaningful impact on our reported financial results will likely lag given the long cycle nature of many of these projects.
In addition although these jobs provide attractive long-term aftermarket opportunities we must still work through some lower margin large projects in our backlog in the second quarter of 2012.
But our first quarter bookings and bid levels give us increased confidence in our ability to meet our financial goals this year and to obtain profitable growth in following years.
Finally I'd like to update you on the progress I have seen from our new One Flowserve leadership structure.
Tom will highlight some of the initiatives but I can tell you I am encouraged about what has been accomplished in a short time.
I'm already seeing enhancements in leverage across many of our processes including supply chain R&amp;D complex project management project bidding and contract execution cost leverage and increased coverage of our customers.
While we are early in this current phase in our progression towards One Flowserve I am confident in Tom and the ability of his leadership team to make the necessary improvements across all of our operations to deliver on commitments to our shareholders customers and employees.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Before I review the numbers I'd like to update you on the progress we made on our new operating structure we discussed in February.
The operating leaders are in place and we have intensified our efforts towards operational efficiencies reducing our past-due backlog on-time delivery as well as low-cost sourcing opportunities pricing discipline win rates and other costs including selling general and administration costs that have an impact on our overall cost position in the business.
Over the last few months we have driven processes to better serve our customers.
R&amp;D is done centrally across the business as we have established common processes.
We have leveraged global proposal and contract execution capabilities.
We enhanced our focus on customer satisfaction through our on-time delivery commitment focus and our pursuit of obtaining a high-quality product every time the first time with our customers.
And I have added a senior quality person reporting to myself to align our customer base and provide a central focus here.
I am excited about this progress and the operational efficiency initiatives we have planned.
As Mark discussed we are pleased with our strong Q1 bookings of $1.25 billion or an increase of 7.1% versus prior year resulting at a strong book-to-bill of 1.16.
We saw strength in the chemical and the oil and gas industries partially offset by a decrease in water.
The aftermarket business remains strong as we continue to concentrate on this important aspect of our business.
While the OE market in particular the longer cycle OE market continues to remain competitive we were pleased with our overall OE growth rate.
In the oil and gas markets Canadian tar sand activity remained high with several other tar sand projects continuing to progress the various levels of funding and permitting approvals.
Also quoting activity on Brazilian offshore projects remain strong.
A decline in natural gas prices is driving the end user to focus on oil and liquids in their drilling programs.
As reserves and natural gas continue to grow there is the real possibility of increased U.S.
activity as an LNG exporter.
Upstream and downstream oil and gas projects remained strong in the Middle East with gas projects seeing increased activity in Russia and shale gas projects in China.
In spite of uncertainty in the nuclear market several countries continued to move ahead with their nuclear plants including China the U.S.
and India in particular.
The U.S.
has most recently received NRC approval for both the Vogtle plants in Georgia and the SCANA plants in South Carolina.
The increase in natural gas reserves and continued low price of natural gas is driving more combined cycle natural gas plants in the U.S.
This trend may also increase throughout other regions of the world as more natural gas is tapped.
China and India continued to balance their power needs across a wide range of technologies including nuclear and fossil applications.
The chemical market continued its overall growth pattern with broad-based year-over-year growth.
As more natural gas is discovered around the world it should create opportunities for low-cost gas feedstock for chemical plant applications.
The water business decreased but we see potential activity in China and the Middle East.
Mining and pulp and paper although a smaller contributor to our general industries continued to grow.
Mining should continue to be a good growth sector based on increased global demand.
Now I would like to turn to our segment results.
The Engineered Product Division grew bookings 11.3% in Q1 versus prior year to $671 million resulting in a healthy book-to-bill ratio for Q1 of 1.25.
Book-to-bill for the OE business was 1.59 while the aftermarket business it was 1.05.
A strong OE book-to-bill works to increase our expected highly engineered installed base and ultimately increases our aftermarket opportunity.
The bookings growth is notable considering Q1 of 2011 included nearly $90 million of bookings related to one major order.
Aftermarket bookings increased 9% or 11% on a constant currency basis.
Our continued focus on the aftermarket particularly in customers focusing on energy efficiency operating cost reductions and reliability continued to build momentum.
Bookings growth in Q1 came from the chemical oil and gas and general industries including the mining business and to a moderate amount the power business.
Sales were up 2.1% on the quarter versus the prior year or 4.6% on a constant currency basis to $535 million driven again primarily by sales originating in EMA and North America.
We continue to invest in the emerging markets with 3 ongoing capital investments at our new Xuzhou greenfield facility our greenfield Brazilian Rio facility and the addition of our third greenfield block in Coimbatore India.
Also in January we completed the acquisition of EMCOMET an Argentina-based business specializing in bearings and seal lube oil systems and electrical control panels used in pumps and seal support systems.
Gross margin was 34.3% versus prior year at 35.9% was negatively impacted as we continued to work through lower margin past-due backlog and sales mix shifted towards lower margin OE.
Operating income was 17.2% versus prior year at 17.5% including a gain on sales of replaced assets and appropriate overall expense control.
We continue to work on any internal business unit which has performance areas that are not up to Flowserve's high standards.
We have a group of quality black belts that are driving key initiatives across these plants in a methodically detailed program.
We also have visibility in our backlog of our projects and review each operational backlog regularly.
I would also like to update you on the performance of Lawrence Pumps acquired in the fourth quarter of last year.
Excluding noncash purchase price accounting effects Lawrence got off to a strong start this year.
This reflects our ability to leverage our aftermarket capabilities and global sales network to benefit from an acquisition which fits us well with complementary Flow Control products.
The Industrial Product Division grew bookings 3.1% from the previous period Q1 or 4.9% on a currency neutral basis.
The overall book-to-bill ratio was 1.09 in the present quarter.
OE book-to-bill was 1.12 while aftermarket book-to-bill was 1.03.
The OE aftermarket bookings mix remained essentially the same while the sales mix shifted 300 basis points towards original equipment in Q1 2012.
Growth came from the chemical oil and gas and other businesses made up of mining and to a lesser extent food and beverage.
Regionally the largest growth came from North America Latin America and the Middle East offset by a negative growth in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Sales grew 20.9% in Q1 to $213 million as compared to prior Q1.
Sales by definition grew substantially in North America Latin America the Middle East and Australia.
Aftermarket sales were up 11% versus prior year Q1.
Original equipment sales were up 27% versus prior year Q1.
Gross margin was 23.3% for Q1 as we continue to work off lower margin projects in the backlog and the mix shifted to more original equipment sales.
Operating margin increased 80 basis points to 8.2%.
SG&amp;A expense was essentially unchanged from prior year which resulted in good SG&amp;A leverage on the increased revenue.
Overall initiatives on driving operating margins and on-time delivery improved steadily.
We continue to drive for core operational efficiencies in our business units in order to meet our goal of steadily improving performance in this segment to deliver on our targeted operating margin of 14% to 15%.
We are driving low-cost sourcing opportunities here along with process changes in some of our IPD plants to drive this performance goal.
Flow Control Division bookings of $380 million were up 0.7% versus prior year or 2.6% on a constant currency basis.
The overall book-to-bill ratio in Q1 2012 was 1.04 with the aftermarket book-to-bill being 1.04 in Q1 2012.
Bookings in the aftermarket business grew 2% versus prior year Q1.
Bookings aftermarket mix of 15% was unchanged from prior year.
Bookings increased primarily in chemical with a more moderate increase versus prior year in power.
The pulp and paper business also saw a favorable increase versus last year.
Regionally North America the Middle East Latin America and Asia-Pacific overall saw increases in bookings from prior year Q1 offset by decreases in Europe as a result of the macroeconomic uncertainty in several countries.
Sales grew 7.8% to $364 million from prior year Q1.
Also the growth regionally came from North America Asia-Pacific most notably China and India and Latin America.
Sale splits between the OE and aftermarket remained the same at 85% and 15%.
Gross margins grew 80 basis points to 35% on the quarter.
SG&amp;A as a function of sales reduced 60 basis points from prior year to 19.9%.
Gross margin continued to improve as pricing actions taken in 2011 materialized including low-cost sourcing improved absorption and cost control initiatives.
Operating margin increased 120 basis points from prior year of 15.3%.
Overall the Flow Control Division will continue to focus on high-quality growth strategies like automation plus emerging market growth in Russia India China and Latin America.
In addition the Valbart acquisition continued to provide FCD additional penetration in the oil and gas market with accompanying pull-through opportunities for some of our other products.
Additionally FCD focused on continued execution excellence as demonstrated by its on-time delivery of over 91% as well as its efforts to drive customer quality initiatives in all of its products and services.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
First taking a look at bookings the first quarter bookings of $1.25 billion was our strongest quarter since the third quarter of 2008.
Year-over-year bookings increased $82 million up 7% or 9.4% excluding negative currency impact of approximately $27 million.
The increase was driven primarily by EPD original equipment orders in Asia-Pacific with notable strength in the chemical and oil and gas industries partially offset by a decrease in the water industry.
The strong bookings notably in our highly engineered long cycle products and improving end markets supports our confidence in our 2012 forecasted revenue increase of 5% to 7% as well as our longer-term expectation of 8% to 10% revenue growth through 2016.
When we look at sales for Q1 of $1.07 billion we saw an increase of $78 million from the prior year up 7.8% or 10.1% excluding negative currency impact of approximately $23 million.
We also had a mix shift on sales where original equipment revenues increased from 57% to 59% which had a dilutive impact on margins.
Turning to the financial results slide.
Gross margins were down 150 basis points in part due to a mix shift in sales in EPD and IPD towards original equipment.
Additionally as we discussed at the end of 2011 we also continue to feel the impact from a few lower-margin projects booked during the downturn which are cycling through.
Q2 will be similarly challenged and as we previously guided we expect to see margin improvement in the second half of the year.
SG&amp;A expenses decreased by 170 basis points to 20.6% for the quarter with strong fixed cost leverage on the higher sales and the continued tight cost controls.
SG&amp;A was also impacted positively by a gain on the sale of an old manufacturing facility in Brazil as we began the transition to a new more efficient facility later in the year.
Operating margins for the first quarter of 2012 were up 20 basis points to 13.3%.
Let's take a few minutes to look at the other expense income line.
In Q1 of last year we posted an $0.11 gain from a transaction standpoint below the line whereas this quarter we saw a $0.06 loss resulting in a $0.17 swing.
As we have discussed previously this line item is driven by sequential changes in exchange rates as we mark our foreign currency hedges and balance sheet items to market.
The slight strengthening of the euro was more than offset by the impact of higher volatility in the yen and Mexican peso.
Briefly on our tax rate it came in at 27.5% which is slightly below our stated structural rate of 28% to 30%.
We expect the full-year [ph] rate to be in the 28% to 30% range excluding discreet items.
Turning to cash flows.
Q1 has typically been a significant user of cash due to seasonality.
On a comparative basis we saw a significant improvement versus the first quarter of 2011 despite increased inventory levels associated with a strong book-to-bill ratio for the quarter.
CapEx was $29 million about $5 million higher than last year as we continued investing in growth markets including increased aftermarket capabilities.
Also in accordance with our announced policy to return cash to shareholders we distributed $17 million in dividends and repurchased $22 million of stock during the quarter which is roughly $10 million more than Q1 of last year.
We continue to focus on improving our levels of working capital but work remains.
Inventory increased in-line with a strong first quarter book-to-bill and resulting backlog growth anticipated for our 2012 forecasted revenue growth of 5% to 7%.
We made progress towards reducing our legacy past-due backlog which we discussed at year end and expect to work through most of the remaining balance in the second quarter of 2012 with some residual in the third quarter which we expect to have a diluted impact on margins but clears the way for margin improvement in the second half of the year and beyond.
I am confident that through the improvements we are implementing in our front-end bidding process as well as our disciplined focus on cash collection we can drive DSO into the mid-60s.
Taking a look at our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Following a solid first quarter start we are reaffirming our 2012 full year guidance of $8 to $8.80 per share including $0.50 of a negative foreign currency impact above and below the line.
As we have discussed previously we continue to expect 2012 earnings to be second-half weighted due to the increased backlog currency impact and delayed project margin pressures as we continue to work through the remainder of the low-margin legacy backlog in the second quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we continue to expect revenue growth of 5% to 7% in spite of the currency headwinds we have outlined.
I am also confident with the growth in our markets and Tom's operational improvements we will deliver margin improvement and progress towards our 1.5% to 2.5% operating margin improvement target over the next 2 to 3 years.
We expect CapEx to be between $125 million and $135 million in 2012 as we position ourselves for growth and continue to execute on our end-user strategy.
Working capital issues will receive a significant amount of my attention as we focus on bringing these metrics to more appropriate levels.
And now let me turn it back over to Mike.
Thanks Mike.
Operator we are ready to open the line for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Jamie Sullivan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question.
Overall it sounds -- you sound incrementally positive on your end market particularly long cycle and chemical.
Is there anything that you're a bit more cautious on based on what you see? Well as we commented earlier I mean we're waiting for the water markets to start to recover as well and see what occurs there.
I think also we're keeping an overall eye on the power markets.
They've been relatively flat.
What we talked about in the U.S.
is if we can free up the regulatory environment.
Also as they start working through the -- each country is going through their nuclear evaluation.
Some of them are starting to clear the way some of them are still working through it.
And then again there's always the wildcard of what goes on in EMA.
It still seems to change from day-to-day.
It seemed there was more confidence a couple of weeks ago and now there's concern with what's going on in Spain and that does impact our business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in the general industries area I know that's a diverse end market for you.
The bookings sounded stronger in EPD maybe a little bit softer in some of the other segments.
Just wondering if you can talk about what's driving the differences there? Well I mean I guess in the general industry keep in mind you've got mining pulp and paper some of the aspects of that and we saw some improvement overall in the mining business.
But also you have some of our orders that goes through distributors that are in that segment.
So what you might see -- what you do see is as distributors start to stock again -- stock again in their inventory levels you'll see the benefit of that in the GI side.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's what you're seeing? We're seeing some -- yes we're seeing some of the stocking activity overall.
I think it's just generally as markets start to improve if you -- where we were at this time last year is we were still talking about choppy and competitive and what we do is we see some of these projects coming more and more online.
Our distributors will see the same thing.
Generally industry will see that as well and that'll tend to reflect itself through all aspects of our business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Then one last quick one on oil and gas.
So outside of the positive long-term fundamentals you're seeing what -- maybe over the next year or so what areas do you see the most activity occurring? Yes Jamie this is Tom.
One of the good areas and bright spots is the LNG market.
And as we mentioned because of the shale gas prices in U.S.
you could see the LNG become an exporter out of the U.S.
so that's a significant bright spot.
Also the Canadian tar sands' activities has remained high for us given the overall price of oil.
So that is also doing well.
And the Brazilian offshore is another growth area for us.
Our next question comes from Robert Barry.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify how much margin pressure was caused in the quarter in EPD and IPD due to these low-margin projects moving through? Yes Robert it's Mike.
We'd estimate that to be somewhere between 150 to 200 basis points for the quarter.
And I think you'll see similar effect in Q2 and then some -- a little run-on in the Q3 as well.
Research Division</strong> And that 150 to 200 that's both for EPD and IPD? Yes majority of that was EPD but that's a consolidated number.
Research Division</strong> And then as we get into the back half of the year should we expect things to kind of snap back once those few projects move out? Or is it going to be more of a gradual improvement? It's more of a gradual improvement as you kind of come through it.
The same thing you saw -- I mean Robert just going back in time our order book peaked really particularly in EPD in around the late summer of 2008.
And you saw their margins hold well into the late summer of 2010 and then start -- you started to see the impact as that business rolled off.
It occurs the same way when you start to build your margins back but it starts with improved volume levels so you get better absorption overall in the business and also the pricing as well.
But that's how it tends to come back.
This is typical of the cycle.
And our long late cycle business this is what you're seeing in EPD as it -- as we kind of wrap up what we saw really in 2010 and some carried over to the early 2011 when we talked about the markets being choppy and competitive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to differentiate between the low margin backlog and the past dues? Because -- and I believe some of it is interrelated but I think Mike you had alluded to something even slipping into 3Q.
And just to be clear is the low-margin -- the few low-margin projects are they kind of moving through as planned and scheduled to be out after 2Q and it's the past dues that you think might linger into 3Q? Or -- I just wanted to be clear on that.
Mike and I'll take this together.
I mean there's a couple of things.
There were projects that are not past due that were taken for aftermarket reasons particularly in the Middle East where it's very competitive.
That didn't have a necessarily good margin profile that will come through backlog over this period of time that are important to us for the aftermarket side.
And then I think there is definitely a correlation when things become past due either because of manufacturing supply chain or the customers don't want it.
It does tend to erode margins so it's a little bit of those.
But I think Mike you want to carry it from there on terms of when it's rolling through? Yes I mean I think Robert in a way it's -- there's certainly some consistency there and one and the same.
I mean because you can have some legacy backlog.
And when we refer to these legacy backlogs these were really -- the projects were booked in the downturn at much lower gross margins.
And they may or -- may be on schedule they may be part of the past-due backlog.
When we are referring to past-due backlog it's really more of a working capital concern as well as margin concern.
Because as you know when a project reaches the past-due backlog phase then you start getting into some additional costs such as liquidated damages and things like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just one housekeeping item.
Is it possible to just break out the revenue and bookings impact from Lawrence in the quarter? It was -- we really didn't report that separately but it was relatively small.
I mean their revenue was in-line with what you saw on the business profile when we announced the acquisition.
But I think Tom's comment was what we did see excluding the impact of purchase accounting and typically these type of acquisitions they'll tend to drag on your earnings -- literally on your earnings and therefore of course on your margins as well until you clear through the acquired backlog.
But absent that aside from that we saw very good leverage in the business so we're pleased with it.
Same thing we saw with Valbart as we worked through it but what we're focusing on is growing the bookings and the top line of that business.
But we saw a good margin pull-through absent purchase accounting.
Our next question comes from Charlie Brady.
I just want to focus on EPD for a minute.
And so there was a pretty wide difference between the mix on OE bookings and OE sales in Q1.
And I guess I'm just trying to piece together the impact of what that means on margins later on this year when you couple that with the fact that you have a kind of a natural margin lift from this lower market [ph] backlog kind of coming off-line or rolling through.
Is there -- is the headwind -- or do you expect the headwind from the OE mix to be that much of a headwind on margins in the second half and offset the lift you're going to get from having the margin backlog move out or not? And what do think the mix looks like OE aftermarket as we go through this year? I think I understand your question.
Let's set aside what we call the legacy backlog and just talk about the business from here going forward.
And you saw this in the past '06 and '07 a couple of things occur.
When you do see these book-to-bill levels in EPD of course what that means is over a period of time you'll see a mix shift to more original equipment business.
But keep in mind our aftermarket business is a lot bigger in EPD than it was back then.
So all other things being equal sure mix does tend to put pressure on your margins.
But I think another thing if you look over the last couple of years at their sales levels in EPD they've been running on average in bookings and sales $225 million or less in sales on the OE side.
So as that starts to grow you're going to get better absorption and fixed cost leverage in the SG&amp;A line.
So how it works out mix shift does tend to impact margins but growth in the OE is good from a number of aspects.
One you get better absorption in your plants fixed cost leverage on the SG&amp;A line and then also that's an indicator that your markets are starting to get traction and you can drive better pricing through overall in the business.
So those are going to be your margin impacts going forward.
Okay.
And just so I'm clear it sounds like what you're saying then that we should expect -- because the mix shift had gone good mix [ph] heavily toward the OE that doesn't necessarily mean we get a significant downtick in margins in the second half because of the fact that [indiscernible]? Well overall what -- the margins at least in the first half and some in the Q3 will be more around the legacy backlog.
And then as you go forward you -- as this kind of works out what we're [ph] go on aftermarket business as well you'll see some impact from more OE going through mix alone but also a benefit from absorption in SG&amp;A as well.
Charlie it's Mike.
Another thing to keep in mind on EPD obviously is on those OE orders.
They have a runway of 12 months plus so something we're booking today really starts flowing through revenues -- 3 or 4 quarters down the road.
All right okay.
And then my next question would be on the SG&amp;A line across the segments.
That's obviously come down on a year-over-year basis nicely.
Can you give us a sense of kind of what your SG&amp;A targets are for the business segments? What are you thinking of that too? Yes I mean I think overall we're still trying to -- as a business drive it to 20% or below.
If you look at EPD a lot of that as a percentage overall is going to be what we just talked about.
As we start to grow the OE business we're going to get better fixed cost leverage.
You're seeing the same thing in IPD they had good cost control year-over-year and they're starting to grow their top line.
And FCD has always done a good job in managing that.
And then corporate corporate has been relatively stable now for a couple of years.
So what we're looking is to continue to leverage SG&amp;A as we grow our business.
And do keep in mind this SG&amp;A run rate does reflect investment in QRCs that we'll still realize a benefit from hiring of engineers putting a lot of programs in place to drive growth overall in our business.
So we'll get the leverage not only from cost management but to start to realize some additional returns from the SG&amp;A we've invested in our business.
Charlie I would also add I mean if you look at what we've done structurally since the beginning of the year we've centralized the research and technology function so that should give some good positions going forward.
We've also centralized global projects both on the proposal stage and the contract stage.
That should help along with the quality overall initiative for the company.
So those process changes will also add to the position that Mark mentioned.
Yes.
Charlie Mike.
Also I mean just to note related to SG&amp;A.
We mentioned our overall goal over a 2- to 3-year period is to get that net percentage to 18%.
So that's -- we're driving towards that on a consolidated basis.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg [ph].
Just coming back to North America.
Obviously it seems like there has been quite step change in the activity going on in the market.
I'm just curious as we look forward do you anticipate you're going to require more investment to serve the opportunities that you're seeing? And separately as far as timing goes when do you start to see kind of a pickup in activity related to these projects that we're hearing about in chemical and oil sands and others? Well as -- I mean as they start to let these out we -- if you look at our business over many many years we have a well-established presence in the United States and in EMA.
We've done a lot to drive efficiency in that over the last couple of years as we reposition our business to emerging markets.
But we have ample resources in North America to support the growth not only from domestic capabilities but also a lot of our strategies to do some low-cost manufacturing in our facilities around the world.
So as you look at these projects as they come on line be it the -- on the nuclear side some of the chemical plants with the natural gas feedstock and the impact to natural gas itself right you're seeing movement from gas to liquids and the impact that's going to have pipelines all of those things still represent opportunity out there.
I think on the power side as I mentioned in my comments we're going to need to see some clarity around regulations.
But as that starts to free up -- but there is demand for all of the things that I've talked about so they'll need the infrastructure for it.
But from our investment stock side it doesn't require significant investment to support our current and our future markets in North America.
Right.
And just as far as timing when do you anticipate that opportunity starts materializing into a more significant run rate of revenue -- orders in revenue? I mean it's going to -- it's obviously going to vary depending on the industry.
I think the good thing is is we see good growth across many of the infrastructure areas.
So if you take nuclear I mean nuclear I would say is imminently here because of the SCANA project that they've just announced and the Vogtle previous project in Georgia.
So that one's going along good.
You're going to see opening up on the combined cycle power plants because of low price of gas.
Because of the EPA requirements a lot of fossil units are going to require some revamp in the environmental equipment on the back end in order to comply with the EPA requirements.
You're seeing several customers announce several -- or chemical plants on the ethylene side of the business in various parts of the U.S.
So I think that's probably got a little bit longer runway.
And then probably the last thing which has some good growth prospects going forward but a little bit longer term would be the LNG as an export as a result of the low price of natural gas.
And if I may just one last question.
On guidance you kept the range which was still fairly large $8.00 to $8.80.
Curious why is it still so wide? It sounds like you do have more confidence in what you're seeing in the market.
Maybe if you could just discuss what are kind of the big swing factors here? Well a couple of things.
I mean normally if you've followed our cadence we've maintained our guidance typically into the fall.
You also have big volatility in currency.
Look at the impact it had year-over-year just in the first quarter alone of $0.17 overall.
So that's part of the reason that we do it.
And it may be $0.80 but it's a 10% range.
It's not uncommon that companies have a 10% range overall in their earnings guidance.
But we -- as we drill down towards the end of the year and get more information we always try to put it out there to the street.
Our next question comes from Kevin Maczka.
Research Division</strong> On pricing there's a comment about actions you took in 2011 on FCD.
I'm just wondering if you can talk about pricing in general on the OE side? And is it fair to say that it's the past-due backlog and the bad [ph] margin backlog is pressuring margins by 200 basis points now that current orders are coming in and closing that gap? Yes the comment that was in the script was on the FCD side of the business.
And what it related to was a number of different initiatives that go into pricing one of them being our lean initiative there our -- and then issues in terms of low-cost sourcing which we feel pretty good about on the FCD side because it's a pretty high percentage of the business between 30% to 40%.
We've had a number of other initiatives going on in terms of just material costing.
We've continued to maneuver things around our worldwide asset base to capture the overall margins.
So those initiatives that we took at a very detailed level are now beginning to bear fruit as we execute those orders.
So I mean part of that comment was just for Tom to help you understand how he's running this business and we think that's important for folks to understand.
If you go back to where we were a year ago a year ago plus when we talked about choppy and competitive you were looking as we've commented then about absorption in your factories filling your factories.
Sometimes you had to take projects that had no margin in them to make sure you could absorb your factories.
As we started talking about our markets firming up as we did towards the latter part of last year what that said is that some of the capacity in the industry was starting to get picked up.
And now as we roll into this year we talked about firming yet still competitive markets but a lot of what Tom's doing relative to some of the initiatives on the front end to drive pricing.
I think to take it even further Mike's comments earlier is you'll see the benefit of a lot of these initiatives over the next 3 to 4 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then shifting gears to the working capital with the inventory increase that we saw.
And I understand that bookings were up and revenues were up.
But at some point here should investors be expecting that we start to see some of that actually liquidate and not grow less than revenues are growing but actually declines in the inventory levels? Yes Kevin good point.
And no you're absolutely right.
I think traditionally more seasonal growth in inventory year-over-year.
You saw the similar thing last year where we had inventory effect of about -- a use of about $107 million this year on the statement of cash flow was about $112 $113.
So -- but no that is one of the top priorities that I have and Tom and I are actually working together to improve on-time delivery to get this past-due backlog off and to increase our inventory turns.
Some of the things we talk about every day here and I'll continue to talk about those.
So big focus on working capital.
I still believe there is several hundred million dollars that we can monetize out of our working capital balance between accounts receivables inventory and accounts payable just better management of that and that's our long-term goal.
We'll get it done.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just really one question and this one's for Tom Pajonas.
I'm just wondering what are some of the things that you're working on right now? I know Mark rattled through a couple of things that you were doing that were starting to have an effect and maybe what are the 2 or 3 big buckets that you're focused on in improving the operations and when will we see their benefit in the margin? Yes I mean that's a good question.
I mean if you look at -- since I took over I mean the first thing I would just say structurally it may not seem like a lot but we have the people in place.
We got the structure in place.
People know what their goals are.
They know what their runway is here in terms of hitting those particulars goals.
I would say very good clarity on getting the business set up.
In terms of the specific initiatives I mean obviously the customer focus one is the one that is extremely powerful in the organization here especially the on-time delivery and cost per quality.
Those are 2 areas that we'll drive religiously here in all the different units.
And I think you're going to see some good effects as a result of the initiatives in those areas.
Michael already mentioned the working capital so I won't go through that.
But other areas like centralizing casting buys for the whole business -- across the business so that we get very good at specification development expediting vendors making sure that when we put something in the vendor shop they have the capacity.
So we're looking at centralizing several of those items including motors.
And then I would say 2 or 3 other areas of research and technology we brought that under one head.
So I would expect to see a much more robust process than what we had in the past there.
And then proposal and contract management where we can now begin to centralize on terms and conditions differently.
We can begin to centralize on how we cost the job and so on will I think reach some benefits going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just the only other question is with respect to the implementation of these initiatives have you found the need to move people from Flow Control where you run that business for so long and so well into the other operating units to kind of get the point across? Yes that's an excellent point.
Yes we -- I mean we will -- we constantly look at moving people around.
But I would say first is one individual that we did move around towards the back end of 2011 was the Vice President of supply chain moving from the Valve group into the Pump area.
And that was I think we mentioned at that time to kind of get out some of the low-cost sourcing initiatives that we have.
Plus he's a good commodity strategist relative to the motors and the castings here that we have.
So that was certainly one area that we have.
And then we have -- we have moved people I would say at a much lower level in their organization on the project side of the business.
But we'll continue to drive that across those platforms now that we have an easier mechanism to do that from a structure standpoint.
Our next question comes from Mike Halloran.
Research Division</strong> So could you guys talk a little bit about utilization levels both for your facilities as well as what you guys are seeing in the industry and with the little bit better order trends that you're seeing this quarter? Maybe also a commentary on how you expect that utilization level to track through the year? I think where we're -- the focus really in what you're seeing is on the highly engineered rotating equipment side around capacity utilization and there's a couple of things that have happened with capacity.
If you saw last year some of the capacity has changed hands into companies that have a lot of certainly a tremendous amount of discipline.
A good example is the ClydeUnion assets going into SPX.
SPX well run good discipline.
So there's -- the assets have become more disciplined and utilization is starting to go up.
Overall generally in the industry you saw a lot of capacity come online in 2010 and some in 2011 but that's starting to get claimed with projects that came through primarily in the Middle East in '10 and '11 but also with some of the things that we're seeing.
So as we look over the horizon in the engineered rotating equipment side you're seeing the industry do it as well and start to think about how they want to use capacity over the next 18 months.
So it's starting to pick up.
Research Division</strong> That's encouraging.
And then when you think about the margin improvement potential on a qualitative basis could you just talk about where you see the biggest opportunity in buckets in terms of pricing leverage or kind of internal operational-oriented improvement? I think the -- I mean market-driven there's going to be certainly -- the pricing opportunity as things firm up on the EPD and the engineered side.
And leverage is going to be around the fixed cost leverage absorption in the SG&amp;A side and so I would say they're balanced really across all 3 of those if you think about it.
And that is we spent a couple of years realigning our business driving a lot of the front end and investment to emerging parts of the world.
And now what Tom is focused on is we've had a -- we've got a lot of talent capabilities in this business is bringing that efficiency and driving execution across the business to leverage margins overall in our business.
So we look at all 3 of those really as being able to leverage our margins going forward.
And that's what we talked about 150 to 250 basis points it comes really from all 3.
Because if you looked at historically back in the '07 '08 time period those were pretty much very high-priced environments where people were paying for manufacturing slots.
We don't need that environment again to get to the 150 to 250 that we're talking about.
Really it's just driving the 3 things you talked about.
Our next question comes from William Bremer.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you gave us some idea in terms of how much you've monetized of the lower margin past-due backlog.
I believe it was approximately $60 million.
And you sort of indicated that you like to bring down the total below $200 million.
Want to quantify what we did this quarter and are we on track? Yes good question.
We are on track.
We made some improvement on our past-due backlog.
And I'd say we're probably about halfway of where we need it to get to from that quantification of that $60 million or so.
So we improved it I think somewhere in that $10 million to $20 million range or so.
Not quite half but we made improvement and we certainly feel confident we'll get there by second quarter into the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's the reason why we're sort of approaching the third quarter here a little bit.
Okay.
And then my other question is on the EPD segment.
The sale of the facility so to back that out -- I want to confirm my numbers here.
So my adjusted operating margin comes into the range of about a 15 plus there? I just wanted to confirm that with you.
Yes that's about right.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are there any other facilities that we should be thinking about longer term that this should be the objective of management in terms of completely selling them off and then ramping up a more efficient line? Well I mean we talked about -- we've had a facility in Brazil for quite a number of years but it was very constrained.
One because of where it was located.
It was constrained in terms of manufacturing and transportation test size capabilities.
And so to respond to the market there in Brazil we decided to build a new facility.
But this sale opportunity if you think about it we got a very good price for our old facility.
It almost covered half the cost of our new facility which is much larger has more product offerings and more capabilities.
So it -- we're always going to do what makes sense in terms of overall in our business.
And we were able to sell this facility monetize it pay for almost half of the new one and start the migration process to our new facility.
So if in terms of being able to drive good efficiency in our business and make the right long-term decisions for the company and our shareholders you can expect the management will do that.
Our next question comes from David Rose.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
You had mentioned a couple of items that were driving improvements on the front end of the business particularly the backlog.
As we look at the backlog and we're trying to get a little bit more comfortable with the backlog going into a higher margin level in the back half of the year what sort of KPI should we be thinking about? And maybe give us some examples of how that backlog improves? Because I get the pricing standpoint.
You mentioned FCD for example and on-time delivery I think you gave us a 91% number.
Are there particular KPIs that we should be looking out for both EPD as well as IPD? I mean I think when we discuss operational metrics there is a correlation between on-time delivery and margins in almost all instances.
So I think as you follow around on-time delivery.
But I think as you look at some of the things we discussed a leading indicator of margins is certainly going to [Audio Gap] far a long leading indicator is going to be our commentary around the markets especially on the large projects and firming markets which tend to give you some power in terms of absorbing your facilities and getting the fixed cost leverage.
I think also the pricing that we talk about it's still competitive out there but as markets start to firm pricing comes around.
So that's probably one of the longest lead indicators in terms of margin.
One of the shortest ones in terms of bookings in the sales line is going to be our aftermarket business.
As that grows that's high-margin business and very stable margins.
So if you look at our order book those are probably your indicators from longest to shortest from the -- and going back to Mike Halloran's comments earlier from the SG&amp;A side it's just margins on around how we're going to leverage SG&amp;A.
Cost controls how we're going to leverage our SG&amp;A overall in the business.
And then I think finally the operating metrics because we can drive efficiency in our business and efficiency correlates to margins.
So I'm just trying to lay it out for you in terms of our commentary in this press release and following the business over the last couple of years that's how you can follow the margin profile of our business.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
I was just really trying to understand is how do we get more comfortable that backlog won't have some of the same headwinds that the first half did and that was really getting the backlog out the door I mean on-time delivery.
Yes I mean I think it is.
But that's one of the most important things is to clear this as you see at the end of the cycle and as we start clearing the backlog and driving some of the initiatives that we have.
Some of the comments you've heard us talk about on our long lead time projects now we'll start to see over the next 3 to 4 quarters.
But I think the ones that'll have the more immediate impact that you can watch are going to be our aftermarket growth in our business our SG&amp;A leverage and then our periodic commentary about operational leverage that we're getting in the business.
I mean if you take a step back -- I mean I know we just talked about EPD's margins well in the highly engineered pump business those are the strongest margins that are out there.
And so we continue to drive those higher and higher but we'll refer to operational metrics and things that we're talking about.
Those tend to have an immediate impact as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then lastly Mark on that note on aftermarket bookings figures.
When we look at the figures how are you thinking about the comparisons in Q2 2012 versus Q2 2011? If I'm not mistaken the EPD and IPD have easier comparisons than Q1.
Do we still think about it in terms of year-over-year comparisons? Let me make sure I understand your question.
In terms of aftermarket is your question in Q2 of 2012 versus Q2 of 2011.
Was that your question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean if -- Q1 2011 you had a fairly significant increase so your comparisons look tougher.
So do you think about it that way? Do they get easier in Q2 versus last year? We typically look at it -- this is a comment back from years ago not being quarter-to-quarter.
And a good example is this year you look at FCD's bookings and relatively flat slightly up on constant currency.
But if you look at last year it was up 30% over the prior year.
So we really look at long-term trends overall in our business.
We'll look at rolling 4 quarter because there is seasonality to our business.
I can tell you if you look at order books and sales in the third quarter particularly in EMA a lot of folks are on vacation.
So we tend to look things over a rolling period of time.
What we like about the aftermarket business is it's approaching $2 billion.
It's been high-margin stable business and we've been growing it at a 7% to 8% clip.
And if you look at the global installed base around the world net it does not increase by 7% to 8%.
It's actually less than that.
So what we're doing is we're not only taking care of the incremental installed base but gaining share through our end-user strategies.
That's how we look at it.
Our next question comes from Stewart Scharf.
I was wondering if there is any impact you're seeing or you expect to see from some of the consolidation in oil and gas business Sonoco and other recent energy transfer partners acquisitions and some private equity? And whether you see that having any impact on the pipeline operation and refinery so forth? Yes I mean it's early to tell with ETP and Sonoco what's going to happen.
But if you take a step back and you look at what's happened in the oil and gas industry and particularly in our industry some of the efforts over the last couple of years it really supports the thesis that energy oil and gas power and even water has a strong secular growth cycle and that's why these folks are making these investments that's why industries are consolidating to get leverage to be able to get access to the capital for the investment that's required.
So it does support our long-term trend assumptions in our business over the next 10 to 20 years about the growth opportunities in the energy side of the business.
Our next question comes from John Moore.
Inc.</strong> Just one question on the orders and this is probably a follow-up to the one asked previously.
The order growth in EPD was obviously very impressive this quarter and bodes well for that division here later this year and into '13.
And I realize the IPD and FCD divisions face some more difficult comps but would you say the strength in EPD you saw this quarter is actually an indication that IPD and FCD orders should accelerate from here? Or are they facing some other kind of end-market trend that EPD isn't? No no I mean we talked about the short cycle business.
And again I'll just caution not to make a call on a quarter.
There could be a compare issue to last year one project.
You certainly saw that in EPD.
You take a step back and think about Tom's comments we had a very large project that came through.
It was very competitive but will offer great aftermarket opportunity for 15 to 20 years.
And that was in the order book last year in EPD.
So what it does tell you on if you see sustained growth in the long cycle business that's indicative.
And it's later cycle it indicates that that long cycle business is starting to come back.
What that means for our industry is that capacity starts to get utilized to the question earlier that also you're starting to get better absorption and pricing through.
What it'll do is that'll tend to run on for a period of time.
I mean if you think about it EPD's long cycle business stayed in our P&amp;L 'til really the latter part of 2010.
So that's what that means overall for our industry.
It also means -- but it brings long investment in the short cycle business and brings long aftermarket opportunity.
So that's the way to think of it and if you think about our commentary we've seen firming markets and we see opportunities for some of these projects that you've seen engineering and contracting firms talk about to come our way towards the end of this year beginning in next year.
So this is typically how it feels when things start to pick up overall in our industry.
On the short cycle business I would always say you need to look over a couple of quarters and look at growth rates because that can fluctuate certainly from quarter-to-quarter.
But we like what we've seen in our short cycle business and we're looking to grow them.
Our final question comes from Jeff Beach.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Beginning of the presentation you highlighted shale gas tar sands LNG opportunities.
My question is are all of these large enough in size to actually grow that slice of the pie in view of your growth opportunities in Asia the Middle East aftermarket so many other drivers.
Can you actually increase that percentage going into let's say North America energy? I mean we can on a relative basis.
But one thing I always comment Jeff is not any one of these things is going to become a predominant part of our order book or our revenues.
We're diversified across multiple applications.
But I think what I -- the theme is consistent.
You're seeing these more complex applications come to market and that's where our technology and engineering capabilities are able to respond.
What we didn't talk about was our increased presence in the thermal solar.
We've seen increased orders in some of our molten salt pumps.
That came from basically very little to nothing a couple of years ago.
So these are all applications that we're able to take our capabilities in our global manufacturing and address these markets.
Clearly one notable thing you've seen in the United States.
And I do think if you look at our North America growth it will have a notable impact is with gas being at this cost it's becoming a low-cost feedstock and it's bringing investment on in the chemical industry.
Which we saw the chemical industry basically I think it was about 4 years ago as it started to really cycle down hard.
And when you saw it come back which it typically does with GDP but this is kind of an added boost in North America being that it's a -- natural gas is a low-cost feedstock.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then specifically within this midstream infrastructure in North America energy is there one division that benefits more than the others? And what would be a couple of the major products? Well yes I think they all 3 benefit on midstream application and this is even a further enhancement from the One Flowserve.
Clearly the type of rotating equipment that goes on to some of these pipeline structures particularly the liquid ones are supported by EPD and IPD.
But also you have for safety reasons you have valves that are at certain locations.
They're either modulating the flow or for example in our trunnion-mounted ball valve that are actually safety valves that it can isolate a piece of the pipeline to make sure if there is any problem it doesn't spill over into other parts of the pipeline.
So we do -- a lot of our products are able to go into these pipelines particularly on the liquid side.
And now with -- what Tom was talking about now we can even bring more of an opportunity to bear when we go to pursue these opportunities.
And I would also add one other thing to that.
A lot of these pipelines are adding capacity so we have a lot of aftermarket growth opportunities in the pipeline area also.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll now turn it back to Mr.
Mullin for closing remarks.
Thank you Kim and thank you all for joining today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Q2 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Mike Mullin.
Mr.
Mullin you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to Flowserve's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast with our earnings presentation via our website at flowserve.com.
Simply click on the Investor Relations tab to access the webcast and the accompanying presentation.
The webcast will be posted at flowserve.com for replay approximately 2 hours following the end of the call.
The replay will stay on the site for on-demand review over the next several months.
Joining us today are Mark Blinn President and CEO; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer.
Following our commentary today we will begin the Q&amp;A session.
Regarding any forward-looking statements I refer you to yesterday's earnings release 10-Q filing and today's presentation slide deck for Flowserve's Safe Harbor statement on this topic.
All this information can be found at Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
We encourage you to read these statements carefully with respect to our conference call this morning.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mark to begin the formal presentation.
Mark? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our second quarter results.
The progress we have made operationally as well as the strategic actions we have taken are positioning our business to capitalize on the continued global trend towards infrastructure spending which will enable us to continue to grow and drive shareholder value.
I am very proud of our employees' constant focus on serving our customers while we make these operational enhancements.
In spite of what appears to be another summer of uncertainty with the European debt crisis the looming U.S.
fiscal cliff and concerns over the rate of economic growth in China we remain optimistic about the prospects for our end markets and our ability to capture profitable growth across our diversified markets.
I'm also very pleased with the improved quality of backlog resulting from our disciplined effort around pricing and selectivity as well as the leverage resulting from focused cost control actions across our operations and at corporate.
The SG&amp;A line in particular highlights the flexibility and operating leverage of our business.
While work remained Tom and his leadership team continue to gain traction in their efforts to drive operational excellence through our One Flowserve initiatives.
They were able to increase sales operational and cost leverage across many of the common processes in our business units.
We are seeing tangible progress across many of our initiatives including cost of quality on-time delivery supply chain working capital cost management and the front-end bidding process.
The benefits of these initiatives are starting to show in our results and are improving the quality of our backlog.
As we discussed after the first quarter we anticipated challenges in our gross margins in the second quarter as we made progress shipping low margin legacy backlog which was taken in the competitive environment of 2010 and early 2011 as the groundwork for our aftermarket business.
We've also seen a continuation of the dollar strengthening since the end of the first quarter and expect additional earnings headwind as a result.
Mike will outline the expected impacts from legacy backlog and currency for the rest of the year when he updates you on our current guidance.
Turning to our capital structure we took additional actions in the quarter to increase the efficiency of our balance sheet and ultimately increase value for our shareholders.
Based on our consistent performance through the cycle over the last few years and the demonstrated cash generation ability of the business coupled with our improved visibility and our strengthened end market we concluded it made sense to increase the efficiency of the balance sheet and capture the value that additional leverage would provide to our capital structure.
Our board approved a targeted capital structure with a gross debt level of 1x to 2x EBITDA compared to our prior gross debt level of 0.7x.
We decided that the best use of the cash generated from this higher leverage was to increase our share repurchase authorization to $1 billion.
We intend to complete this share repurchase program during 2013.
We also initiated a $300 million accelerated share repurchase program under this $1 billion authorization financed with short-term borrowings to systematically repurchase shares and to more quickly bring our debt level into our new targeted range of 1x to 2x EBITDA.
We are very pleased that all 3 rating agencies recently upgraded our debt rating to investment grade upon our announcement of this new capital structure strategy.
We are now well positioned to take advantage of the current attractive debt markets as we progress towards our targeted capital structure.
Moving to the second quarter financial highlights I'm pleased with our 12.5% earnings improvement over last year particularly in light of significant above and below the line currency headwinds of approximately $0.38.
Second quarter bookings were solid as we continue to capitalize on our investments in our end-user strategies and localization resulting in strong aftermarket bookings in the quarter of $508 million.
Our focused and disciplined investments through the downturn have enabled us to create a current $2 billion annual run rate aftermarket franchise.
We don't take this opportunity for granted and recognize that every day we must earn the right to support our customers.
The second quarter also highlighted the strength of our diversified regional exposure.
Weakness in Europe and softness in the Middle East were more than offset by strength in North America and Asia-Pacific.
We have seen this theme play out before.
Our diverse regional and end market exposures together with our strong aftermarket franchise provide the company with a lower net risk profile which we believe is a key differentiator.
Looking forward to the balance of 2012 we are keeping a close eye on Europe.
However I continue to be cautiously optimistic about how the cycle is progressing.
Quoting activity has been above 2011 levels.
And while uncertainty in Europe caused the timing of some projects to shift this increased activity should result in increased booking opportunities in 2013 and beyond.
While we are optimistic about these future large infrastructure projects and our aftermarket potential we will continue to focus on areas where we have greater control including operational initiatives driving our end-user aftermarket strategies and the pursuit of small cap run rate projects while we wait for the large projects to work their way through the approval process.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark discussed we are pleased with our second quarter results with bookings of $1.21 billion essentially flat versus prior year despite a significant headwind from the stronger dollar.
Additionally bookings were negatively impacted by the economic uncertainty in Europe particularly in FCD.
Our consolidated book-to-bill was 1.03 driven by a strong aftermarket book-to-bill of 1.07.
On a year-to-date basis we have booked nearly 2.5 billion in orders without the benefit of any large project orders.
As we discussed at the end of Q1 we continued to see positive momentum building in our end markets.
The level of feed and pre-feed activity has improved significantly with levels of work in the first 6 months approaching full year 2011 levels.
As Mark mentioned when we look at the potential larger projects on the horizon they have pushed a little bit to the right and probably will not be awarded until 2013.
Turning to our year-to-date bookings by end market.
We saw significant growth in the chemical and modest growth in general industries and oil and gas.
Regionally the growth has concentrated in North America and Asia-Pacific partially offset by lower bookings into the Middle East Africa and to a lesser extent Europe.
Both the power and water markets are down from prior year levels.
In the oil and gas markets unconventional oil tar sands subsea and shale continue to see a high level of CapEx.
Downstream oil projects remained strong in the Middle East Latin America and Russia.
Additionally abundant low-cost natural gas is having a significant impact on the number of chemical project announcements and combined cycle power plants in the U.S.
From a power standpoint economic development and environmental regulations remain the primary drivers.
China and India continued to utilize a broad range of technologies including nuclear and fossil.
Recently the nuclear market advanced another step as China approved its safety plan after a 9-month review.
Interest in renewable energy is growing in new areas for instance solar generation in the Middle East.
In the water business we still see opportunities in China and the Middle East.
Finally we are seeing substantial opportunities in fertilizer production worldwide.
Turning to the year-to-date sales regional mix.
We grew the top line by 6.3% or 11.5% on a constant currency basis.
Strong activity in North America and Asia-Pacific more than offset weakness in Europe.
In North America investment in pipelines terminals and storage facilities continue to rise to move the new-found oil and gas.
In China investment in LNG facilities increases as a means to supplement long-term energy concerns while the Middle East continues to drive for industry diversification with mega investments in power refining petrochemical and water sectors.
Finally recent large oil and gas discoveries in Latin America are attracting increased attention for additional investment activity.
Now I'd like to turn to our segment results for the second quarter.
The Engineered Product Division increased bookings $15 million to $603 million up 2.5% or 10.2% on a constant currency basis.
Aftermarket bookings increased $27 million up 8% or 13% on a constant currency basis.
I am pleased with the strong aftermarket growth rates resulting in a book-to-bill of 1.08 reflecting our successful end-user strategy.
We continue to invest in our aftermarket capabilities adding an additional QRC in Africa in the first half of the year.
The bookings growth was driven by the strength in the general oil and gas and chemical industries partially offset by weakness in the power industry.
Regionally we saw increased bookings into North America and Asia-Pacific partially offset by decreased activity in Europe in the Middle East Africa.
Sales increased $29 million to $587 million up 5.3% or 13.2% on a constant currency basis driven by increased customer aftermarket sales with increased sales into the Middle East Africa and Latin America partially offset by a decrease in Europe.
Gross margin declined 110 basis points to 33.4% negatively impacted by shipments of lower margin legacy projects partially offset by a sales mix shift to the higher margin aftermarket business and the effects of lower costs associated with operational execution improvements.
Operating margin improved 60 basis points to 16.2% due primarily to the lower SG&amp;A and increased gross profit.
We continue to improve our business processes and operations to drive quality and on-time delivery.
Employee training and lean processes kaizen events and value stream mapping are expanding throughout the organization.
Additionally focus side initiatives designed to improve on-time delivery and reduce past due backlog are driven by divisional level teams of master black belts quality managers and supplier development.
The division team stay engaged with the site to ensure all projects are completed.
Finally we have a rigorous program in place for supplier qualification development and measurement.
The Industrial Product Division bookings increased $14 million to $243 million up 6.2% or 11.8% on a constant currency basis driven by activity in the general and chemical industries.
Booking strength in Asia-Pacific and North America was partially offset by weakness in Europe and Latin America.
Sales increased $7 million to $232 million up 3.2% or 9.4% on a constant currency basis.
Strength in North America and the Middle East Africa and Asia-Pacific was partially offset by a decrease into Latin America.
Both original equipment and aftermarket sales were up 3% versus prior year or up 9% and 10% respectively on a constant currency basis.
Gross margin increased 440 basis points to 24.1%.
Gross margin improved 110 basis points excluding the impact of $7.5 million of realignment charges in 2011 that did not recur.
The improvement reflects continued traction on the IPD operation improvement plan as we focus on operational excellence on-time delivery supply chain and cost management.
Operating margin improved 600 basis points to 10.3%.
Operating margin increased 250 basis points excluding the impact of 2011 IPD realignment charges that did not recur on strong SG&amp;A leverage and disciplined cost management.
I am pleased with the progress we have made on the overall initiatives to improve operating margins.
Strong SG&amp;A expense control disciplined pricing policies strong project management and improved spend leverage have driven the steady improvement in our operating margins.
I am confident we are taking the necessary actions to reach our targeted operating margin of 14% to 15% by 2015.
The Flow Control Division bookings decreased $28 million to $412 million down 6.5% or relatively flat on a constant currency basis on a particularly tough compare.
The second quarter of 2011 was FCD's highest booking quarter ever.
While most of the end markets were down again on a very tough compare the power market was strong.
Regionally strength in the Middle East Africa and North America was not enough to offset a significant decline in Europe.
Sales increased $14 million to $402 million up 3.7% or 11% on a constant currency basis versus a very strong 2011 compare.
Sales growth was driven by original equipment sales in the oil and gas and chemical sectors primarily in Asia-Pacific and the Americas.
Regional strength in Asia-Pacific North America and Latin America was partially offset by Europe and the Middle East Africa.
Gross margin declined 110 basis points to 33% due primarily to a mix shift to original equipment reflecting the shipment of certain low-margin projects in oil and gas strategically bid in early 2011 to build our aftermarket base in this sector.
We have continued to drive the oil and gas business in the Middle East through portfolio enhancements and QRC development.
Operating margin decreased 50 basis points to 15%.
Disciplined cost control drove SG&amp;A as a percent of sales down 70 basis points to 18.1%.
FCD continued to develop its aftermarket capabilities with the addition of 2 QRCs in China and Russia in the first half of the year.
The new sites will support our customers with local inventory manufacturing capability and quick response requirements.
Overall I am pleased with the operational improvements since the One Flowserve initiative began.
Work remains and we continue to drive internal efficiencies that focus on further improvements in the front-end bidding and project pursuit processes to drive quality improvement in our backlog and margin expansion in future quarters.
And now I would like to turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Before getting into the financials I would like to spend a few minutes discussing the importance of our risk profile and the stabilizing attributes that have driven our consistency through the cycle.
Our highest ever aftermarket bookings of over $500 million in the second quarter combined with solid original equipment bookings in the absence of large projects demonstrates the importance of our diverse end markets broad geographic presence and our long and short cycle mix which have been critical in lowering our risk profile and creating stability through the cycle.
For example while Europe the Middle East and Africa have been a challenge this year with economic instability and the effects of the debt crisis bookings in North America and Asia-Pacific have more than offset the softness in those markets.
Additionally while our power and water markets have been down the first half of the year they have been more than offset by the strength in the chemical oil and gas and general industries.
So as we take a look at our bookings mix in the first half of the year we drove strong growth in our aftermarket bookings through a continued focus on our end-user strategies.
The aftermarket mix increased 2% to 40% versus the first half of last year.
Overall first half bookings increased $80 million up 3.4% or 8.1% excluding a negative currency impact of approximately $111 million.
When we look at sales for the first half of the year the mix is comparable to last year with 59% original equipment and 41% aftermarket.
Sales increased by over $130 million or up 6.3% over the prior year despite $109 million of currency headwind.
Turning to the financial results slide.
Sales for the second quarter increased 5% year-over-year or up 12.6% on a constant currency basis.
Overall gross margins declined 30 basis points in the quarter.
As we discussed at the end of Q1 we expected gross margins to face continued pressure due to the shipment of some large low-margin legacy backlog projects booked during the downturn in 2010 and the first part of 2011.
Similar to Q1 there were approximately 100 to 200 basis points of impact due to these low-margin projects flowing through earnings and we expect this to continue in Q3.
One large project Yanbu booked in a very competitive environment in the first half of 2011 accounts for a significant amount of the legacy backlog expected to shift over the balance of the year.
We were sole sourced and expect the facility to provide 30 to 40 years of very attractive aftermarket opportunity.
We expect to see gross margin improvement in the fourth quarter as the majority of these legacy low-margin projects are expected to be shipped by the end of the third quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of sales decreased by 180 basis points to 18.9% for the quarter on strong leverage and a continued focus on cost management.
Excluding the favorable impact of a $3.9 million benefit on the resolution of certain items sales grew as a significant multiple to our SG&amp;A growth even as we continued to invest in our QRCs and engineering capabilities in emerging regions.
Operating margins for the second quarter were up 150 basis points to 13.9% or up 70 basis points excluding realignment charges in 2011 that did not recur.
In the other expense income line the stronger U.S.
dollar continues to impact reported results.
Similar to the first quarter we recorded an $0.11 loss below the line as we marked our hedges and balance sheet items to market whereas last year we saw a $0.07 gain resulting in a negative $0.18 swing.
We also saw roughly $0.20 of negative above the line translation impact.
That's a $0.38 year-over-year delta in the quarter and $0.62 year-to-date.
Our effective tax rate for Q2 was 26.7%; was similar to Q1 just slightly below our stated structural rate of 28% to 30%.
We continue to expect the full year rate to be in the 28% to 30% range possibly trending towards the lower end of the range including discreet items.
Turning to cash flows.
We had a strong quarter generating $168 million in operating cash reflecting significant improvement on both our quarterly and year-to-date basis.
CapEx was $28 million in the second quarter about $4 million higher than last year as we continued to increase our aftermarket capabilities adding an additional QRC during the quarter a total of 3 for the year all in emerging regions.
Our capital expenditure outlook for the year remains in the $125 million to $135 million range.
As part of our capital allocation plan which started last fall we announced a new targeted capital structure of 1x to 2x total debt to annual EBITDA as we move towards a more efficient balance sheet.
Our improved end markets and proven ability to manage through the cycle gives us the confidence to prudently increase leverage while driving improved cash utilization efficiency and investing capital in the most accretive opportunities available.
As part of our plan we executed a $300 million accelerated share repurchase program to systematically access the market over a 6-month period.
We believe our targeted capital structure will provide adequate flexibility to meet our commitments to shareholders while maintaining flexibility to be opportunistic when unique investment opportunities arise.
Bolt-on acquisitions will continue to be focused around strategic fit and revenue synergies across our global sales and aftermarket platforms with significant consideration of integration risk.
During the quarter we paid a total of $411 million related to share repurchases partially financed by $300 million of short-term borrowings.
We took delivery of 3.3 million shares including the initial delivery of 2.26 million shares for $240 million under our $300 million accelerated share repurchase program initiated in June.
While the cash has been paid the remaining $60 million share value under the ASR program will not be settled until the conclusion of the program later this year.
As of the end of Q2 we have $625 million remaining on the $1 billion program including the impact of the final settlement of $60 million of share value under the ASR program.
As it relates to dividends we increased our dividend over 12% earlier in the year and returned $20 million to our shareholders in the second quarter or $37 million year-to-date.
Moving to working capital.
We made some progress but work remains.
As it relates to receivables DSO decreased 7 days versus the first quarter to 81 days.
I remain confident that with our disciplined focus on cash collection and the improvements we are making on the front-end bidding process we can drive DSOs into the mid 60s over the next 12 to 18 months.
On the inventory side we successfully decreased our past due backlog by approximately 200 basis points since the beginning of the year which puts us back near historical levels.
With the implementation of operational improvements and Tom's focus on on-time delivery and cost of quality we believe there is additional opportunity to reduce that past due balance and drive further inventory efficiency.
Although we saw improvement in our inventory turns up to 2.8 we believe we can hit a long-term target of 4 to 4.5 turns over the next 18 to 24 months.
We have a number of internal initiatives ongoing around working capital.
And as I stated previously working capital is receiving a significant amount of my focus as we bring these metrics to more appropriate levels.
So let's take a look at our outlook for the remainder of 2012 following a solid first 6 months.
Similar to the prior years we expect the third quarter to be seasonally challenged from a volume and absorption standpoint.
Additionally as we mentioned earlier the third quarter margins will be impacted by legacy backlog shipments by 100 to 200 basis points year-over-year.
However the fourth quarter is shaping up to clearly be our strongest of the year.
From a foreign currency perspective we have seen significant volatility.
With the strengthening U.S.
dollar we are now estimating approximately $1 instead of the $0.50 in prior guidance of negative foreign currency impact above and below the line versus 2011.
Most of this additional impact will be felt in the second half of the year.
Third quarter will be a tough year-over-year compare as the dollar began strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We expect additional foreign currency headwinds will be partially offset by the share repurchase activity as we execute on our share buyback program.
We estimate approximately $0.30 of net benefit related to share repurchase activity in 2012 offset by higher borrowing costs related to increased leverage.
With the recent credit upgrade from the rating agencies we anticipate taking advantage of current attractive debt markets to further support our capital structure strategy.
Net-net despite the significant incremental foreign currency headwind partially offset by our share repurchase activity we remain confident in our initial guidance range; therefore reaffirming our 2012 4-year guidance of $8 to $8.80 per share.
And now let me turn it back over to Mike.
Thanks Mike.
Operator we are ready to open the line for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Charlie Brady.
Can we go back to the commentary on the strength in the pre-feed and feed activity? Can you give some more granularity on where you're seeing that by end market and geography? Yes there's -- well we talked a little bit about softness in the Middle East and that's mainly around the projects that we see on the horizon some refineries that are being built that we see coming on next year.
And so you've seen a lot of the feed work in that area feed work in the LNG.
So if you look at particularly a lot of the Western E&amp;Cs they've been doing a tremendous amount of feed work.
There's front-end work being done on the chemical particularly in North America where you're seeing gas as a low-cost feedstock.
And then also we talked a little bit about the power industry year-over-year and really for the quarter down -- it was kind of mixed.
We've actually seen nuclear start to free up a little bit.
And we're seeing that combined cycle on the horizon but solar has been challenged and they're still working their way through the coal fired.
But as we look over the horizon certainly some combined cycle opportunities and we think that nuclear are going to come back online.
So that's consistent with what you've seen.
Also on the mining industry you've seen continued feed work.
That's been the case for about the last 2 years.
All right.
And your commentary on the fertilizer production opportunity.
Can you just go into that a little bit more? I mean it's an area I don't think you've talked about a lot previously.
Yes as Mark was indicating the amount of pre-feed and feed work is significantly up on the general industries segment of which a lot of that is the fertilizer business on a worldwide basis.
So that business looks like it's really driving pretty heavily across many different regions around the world.
And we would expect some good bookings going forward in that business.
Charlie consistent with the trends we've been talking about for a while.
Demand demand for food demand for water demand for power demand for hydrocarbons they'll vary from time to time.
I mean I think one consistent theme that we've talked about is you've seen the impact to Europe and we're not the only company.
But pretty much across-the-board in our sectors we've seen the impact of what's going on in Europe.
All right one more I've got in the queue here.
What is the new share count assumption embedded in the current guidance for 2012? Charlie it's Mike.
Yes I mean I think the best way to think about it is for the year we purchased about $433 million worth of shares.
And by year-end we'd expect that number to increase another 200 let say $240 million or so by the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hey I was just wondering maybe this is a question for Mike then one for Tom and then truthfully Mark one for you.
Mike the cash flow profile of the company has improved towards -- 2 consecutive quarters now.
And I know that there's a lot of blocking and tackling work.
But is there also an aftermarket element to this where maybe the conversion of cash that cycle is expedited a little bit and gives you a little bit more visibility on what your liquidity looks like going forward? Actually this is Mark.
It works a little bit the other way particularly in our seal business because we keep a lot of parts and spares in our QRCs so that we can respond very quickly so the aftermarket -- if you look at our aftermarket business the key is the ability to be able to respond very quickly.
So what you're seeing in the improvement a lot of it is focus.
There's a lot of focus.
But the other thing as Mike commented at the beginning of the year we talked about a focus around our past due backlog which is distinct from legacy and how we were going to bring that down.
And we've had good success.
That will correlate to working capital and the utilization of working capital.
So it's really been around a lot of the operational improvement.
We still have work to do on the working capital.
But that's driven some of the cash conversion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As far -- so Mark maybe they'll just stay with you.
The legacy backlog just -- I guess it's frustrating from an outsider standpoint that this thing this keeps slipping into deeper and deeper quarters.
Now you're signaling that possibly even into the fourth quarter.
Could you tell us why that is exactly? Yes I mean this is the same thing.
It's the other side of what we saw in 2009 and 2010 when the 2008 very high-priced backlog lived with us for a period of time.
That's just the way our long cycle business works.
And we commented last year that some of the projects were going to live into 2012.
I think the key is you’ve seen the growth in our aftermarket business and being able to offset that; the growth in our short cycle business.
It's the way our business works.
And it's also why you didn't see tremendous volatility in earnings through the cycle because you have this lag effect.
So as Mike commented I mean one of the particular projects we're very -- it's very strategic.
We're very happy about it sole sourced in the western region of Saudi Arabia.
We will get the kind of aftermarket capture that you are now seeing embedded in our $508 million of bookings.
But the fact is these things you work through them; they're long cycle project.
So we anticipated it.
We'll work through them.
Sometimes these things do push if the customer is not ready.
But for the most part we'll have a lot of this cleared from where we were at the beginning of the year at the end of the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter we typically have a lot of other strengths in our business that will tend to offset that.
And as we set up for 2013 we will get the benefit from really moving out of the cycle that we saw in 2010 2011.
We talked about some of the additional bidding activity that we see in 2013 and some projects.
We'll see some of the benefit from that next year but it will carry on.
That will be long cycle as well.
So that benefit will stay with us.
Driving our initiatives as we talked about around an improvement in our gross margin improvement in our operating margins focus on leverage.
So this is the way we kind of cycle through in our business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me just try to paraphrase what you said on the incremental.
So what we thought was going to be kind of a wrap-up in the third quarter of the legacy shipments essentially gets pushed into the fourth quarter based on customer push backs of deliveries.
Is that fair? You can have -- the customers you can -- look one of the things on these big projects we've talked about before is we have to wait on a motor.
And if the motor is slow on delivery then that can push us.
But for the most part we see our way through.
Where we were at the beginning of the year we see a lot of this getting up by the third quarter which is what we anticipated.
If some carries over to the fourth quarter that can happen overall in our business.
But we'll move past the cycle this year and basically get into the environment we've been in since the last half of 2011 starting in 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right fair enough.
The other question I had was for Tom.
Tom your work across the segments.
I'm just kind of wondering I asked this question last quarter but now we've got a little bit more runway here with you with what you're doing a little bit more time to implement.
What are the big things that you are focusing on on the cost side right now Tom? Well I mean everything from our perspective starts on the proposal stage.
So we're putting a lot of effort into the proposal and in terms of the set up if the scope on the job the set up of the terms the costing a lot more advanced procurement resources we put on that aspect as well as good cash flow management as we look at our cash flow strategies in the proposal space.
So I would say that's one aspect.
We continue to focus on the same things that we've been focusing on in the last several years which are gross margin.
There we take a lot of effort in terms of low-cost sourcing the lean the Six Sigma efforts the throughput through the facilities.
We have good line of sight on areas that we want to fix in several of our facilities and we have teams on those.
I would say the other 2 items are items we talked about before which is the base which is the on-time delivery.
So a significant amount of focus on supplier on-time delivery as well as individual unit on-time delivery with our initiatives.
We spend a lot of time on quality and quantity of documentation to get at the working capital as well as try to get at first-pass yields through the business so that we improve the overall efficiency and throughput through the businesses.
So I would say a lot of the basics we continue to drive.
We just have I would say a more rigorous program for driving those initiatives.
Scott the general theme that was in our comments and what we're focused on we are very focused on what we have in our 4 walls and being able to even drive margin improvement there.
We think we have opportunity there.
If you think about it we came through a high-price cycle in '07 and '08.
We spent a lot of time realigning what I'd call the front end of our business in '09 '10 and '11 on the aftermarket side integrating pumps and seals.
And now this is a step around really driving the operations engine of this business to carry us into this next cycle.
Our next question comes from Kevin Maczka.
Research Division</strong> First question on the demand side.
It sounds like you're optimistic there but you did have some commentary about short cycle moderating and some mega project pushouts.
So 2 questions.
I guess on the short-cycle side has that stabilized at this point? Any moderation that you've seen? And on the mega project pushout if that's macro-related what is it from your customer conversations that gives you confidence that that will in fact -- those bids will be the let in 2013 and not just pushed out even further if things remain tough? Okay.
Well a couple of things.
On the short cycle moderating doesn't mean going down.
Moderating means you don't see for example the growth rates you saw this time last year in FCD.
They were up almost 30% in the bookings in the quarter.
A lot of that overlay around that moderation is Europe.
You are just seeing the impact of Europe across the board on our sectors.
That's what's driving the moderation.
But moderation still means growth.
I think the thing on the -- what on the long cycle in the projects we made these comments in the beginning of 2009.
We said "Look there's been a lot of investment made in these projects already.
Feed work and pre-feed work there's a tremendous amount of investment." So as it did then we have confidence that they'll come online but you do see it.
They can't push out of couple of quarters especially when the world pauses to see what happens in Europe.
What gives us confidence that they'll come on is one the investment that's been made; but more important the need for these projects.
They have strategic value.
So you talk about the chemical facility in the Middle East.
They have a strategic focus on making sure that they're vertically integrated across their feedstocks and putting more refined output out into the market as opposed to just basic crude.
Those are strategic drivers.
You look in for example in Latin America.
Some of what you've seen is the impact of elections in Mexico and then there's a new leader at Petrobras.
It doesn't mean they aren't going to invest going forward because their economies or their companies are highly dependent on monetizing these natural resources but an election will affect the timing of some of these things.
You know they're coming back online because they need them basically for their economy for independence for their population same thing with power.
So that's what gives us confidence.
It's the same thing that gave us confidence that projects would come through when we were sitting there at the end of 2008 and 2009.
It's just we recognize that they can push a couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Mark environmental regs is another area that we haven't talked as much about.
But you mentioned it a couple times in your slides today in the oil and gas and the power space.
Can you just maybe give a little more color there? Are there some potential real needle movers here? And what kind of compliance timing are we talking about in a couple of instances? Well I mean there is -- there are always needle movers.
But if you look at how diversified we are across for example the hydrocarbon oil and gas business LNG has been certainly a needle mover.
But in and of itself it's -- since we're not highly concentrated necessarily in one area it'll move but it's not significant.
That's the opportunity of being diversified.
In terms of -- if I understand on the regulatory on the power the coal-fired plants in the United States have been hung up for quite a while.
And now with -- although natural gas has increased in price with that as a relative low-cost feedstock and viewed as an abundant resource people are tilting more towards combined cycle.
But I think when we look at it we don't expect the entire power industry in the United States to go to combined cycle because if gas were to go back up to high levels then they'll be caught on the other side.
So there is a view globally that they're going to stay diversified in their power sources.
I mean we fundamental believe nuclear is going to remain 20% of the global supply of power.
But you do have regulatory issues.
Also certainly in the United States and to a certain degree in Europe as well we've seen the nuclear industry go through what I'd call a re-evaluation mode.
But they're also starting to invest again.
So it's -- we'll always have these things kind of coming up overall in our business.
But we remain optimistic on the power just because of demand with the urban growth and just the requirements around the world and the same thing on the hydrocarbons.
Our next question comes from Mike Halloran.
Research Division</strong> So some thoughts on lead times how they're progressing from here.
I know you've got some moving pieces on the lead time side but maybe you can try to frame it more in terms of how demand is impacting the lead times and your selectivity on projects as it stands here.
And then also a little bit of commentary on the utilization levels you're seeing in your plans and try to compare that to the industry.
Yes I may not have heard the last one; somebody will tell me.
But lead times you've see them come in.
I mean an E&amp;C always wants to bring those in because time is money.
And so part of what Tom and his organization are focused on is making sure that we can drive the efficiency to respond to the lead times.
So when you look at how they evaluate us bidding on a project lead time is certainly one of the things they consider.
So they've come in.
Where we saw lead times really gap out was in '07 and '08 when the entire supply base was getting constrained.
And the E&amp;Cs recognized that they were going to have to flex out on lead times.
Research Division</strong> And the second part of the question was just utilization levels how the trending in your facilities and then maybe try to give a comparison.
Yes -- no good question.
I mean Mike we talked about -- look I'll give you an industry perspective.
In '09 and '10 you had capacity that came on that was planned in '07 and '08 and there was capacity that was certainly chasing price at that point in time.
As part of -- as we look over the horizon and see these project opportunities so do our very capable competitors and they will start to rationalize.
So capacity has started getting incrementally utilized in our business.
And as these projects come online it'll start to get utilized and that's when price will start to rationalize that capacity.
Our next question comes from Robert Barry from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify some of the commentary around the margins.
I was under the impression that we would see a slow but somewhat steady improvement in margins from 2Q to 3Q to 4Q.
And it sounds like now maybe 3Q will step back but then 4Q will rebound perhaps more dramatically.
Is that the right cadence Mike interpreting that? Well I think you -- there's 3 factors that -- around earnings that Mike talked about relative to Q3.
But keep in mind around our third quarter typically we do have a seasonal element to that.
Europe is on vacation.
If Ramadan falls within that period of time typically if you looked at our absorption fixed cost absorption Q1 tended to be our lowest historically and Q3 -- it was -- yes Q3 was our second lowest.
So there's always been that element around the margin profile in the business.
In addition to that it's pushing through some of this legacy backlog as well that will impact margins.
Now what we'll do to certainly offset that in Q3 Q4 all next year is to continue to drive our margin improvement initiatives.
I mean look at what's happened in IPD.
So some of them I would say are around legacy backlog and typical seasonality.
But there are things that we'll focus on within our control: costs improving the IPD platform that we've talked about and operational enhancements a lot of things that we're going to work on.
But I think we just want to give you a general sense that remember the seasonal element around Q3 also that we're working through this cycle and with some of the legacy backlog as you look at our margin profile.
But it's certainly important to us.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify one of the earlier questions is the legacy backlog moving through the P&amp;L at the pace you anticipated at the beginning of the year or has that pace changed? Yes it's pretty much as expected.
And we talked about last year and we said "Look we're going to be living with the down cycle though a good part of 2012.
It's just the way our business works." Like I made the comment earlier because of the lead times earlier to Mike's question earlier the lead times back in '08 we were able to live with which was very high-priced backlog in -- for about 2 years.
And so this is the offsetting impact as we work through the cycle as well.
But we had anticipated.
The other comment we made in the beginning of the year was around our past due.
And we've made the progress we anticipated as well and brought that down.
Research Division</strong> I guess just finally I wanted to ask about oil and how that's changed conversations with customers.
I mean through the quarter both WTI and Brent came off pretty significantly.
I mean it's rebounded recently.
But at these levels and considering the volatility has that changed conversations at all with customers? No.
Research Division</strong> Maybe about 2013 CapEx? No.
When we go out and talk to them they actually in the Middle East they set budgets at a lower expectation rate around Brent in terms of the way they look at things.
I mean if there is a sustained drop that is viewed to sustain over a long period of time well below the levels that we have right now then they may evaluate the projects.
But to date we have not seen them start to question their investment because of the movement.
I mean they look way past the spot price of oil.
Our next question comes from Hamzah Mazari from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on how you folks are thinking about M&amp;A and your appetite for acquisitions.
Given your buyback given some of the stuff you're doing on the balance sheet and also given the new CEO structure that you've put in place.
Okay.
Well I mean I think the way we generally look at cash deployment is what is the best return for our shareholders in terms of how we deploy cash.
So if you think for example a highlight on the capital structure it was really around -- as we moved through the cycle and saw the durability of our aftermarket business and cash flow generation it gave us a lot of confidence in going ahead and taking up our leverage profile.
The result of that was that we were going to in a sense from levering up precipitate some cash.
When we looked at the deployment of that cash we said "Look relative valuation of our company that's a good investment." So that drove the $1 billion share repurchase program.
As we look at M&amp;A we look at similarly.
We're always going to look at the alternatives of how we deploy cash: CapEx dividends share repurchases and inorganic opportunities in terms of returns to our shareholders.
As we look at the pipeline and M&amp;A one of the things we talked about because we have a broad geographic scope and quite a few products in our portfolio what we want to do is focus on bolt-ons.
Bolt-ons are -- have to have good strategic fit and that is what you've seen for example on Valbart and Lawrence that we can leverage our sales organization drive through our aftermarket capabilities.
So in terms of strategic fit in our space we will also focus on the impact to integration.
And I think a lot of that correlates to our new COO structure driving a lot of operational initiatives.
And what we want to make sure is that those stay a priority overall in our business.
And then finally we'll look and determine how we finance it.
But it's really going to start in terms of what is going to be the cash-on-cash return of the investments we make.
We recognize that we want to continue to grow the business as well.
So we think with the flexibility in our capital structure we can really look to grow our business also invest in our business both in CapEx in terms of our share count as well and really drive returns to our shareholders.
So that's the way we think about it.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then just a question on the legacy backlog.
You guys spoke of that being a margin drag 100 bps 200 bps maybe.
Could you maybe comment on how we should think about the difference in margin profile on that legacy versus the past-due backlog? I assume not all past due backlog is low margin.
Maybe if you could touch on how we should think about that.
That's fair.
I mean not all past due is low margin.
And so as you think about it past due correlates more towards some of the working capital some of the things -- the impacts you've seen on inventory in the business.
Now having said that we've always talked about time is money.
So to the extent something becomes past due the margin profile does change and typically not for the positive.
So there is a related element of that.
But -- and the way to think about the legacy backlog Hamzah if -- we've talked about this.
On our long cycle business which has historically been 20% of our business think back about '07 and '08.
And also consider that on these big big projects 40% to 50% of that project is something we buy from other companies a big driver a big motor.
And we can't drive big margins on those buyouts as we call them to our customers.
They just source them directly.
But what you saw in '07 '08 there was so much competition for capacity in the industry we were actually able to get good decent margins on the whole project itself.
You roll forward to back to what we saw in 2010 and 2011 and people were looking to cover their absorption cover their variable cost which means you had fairly low gross margin bids out there in the business.
Now as things have started to kind of rationalize a little bit in late 2011 2012 what you see is you can get good margin on the equipment you manufacture and get margin on your engineering capabilities and your ability to assemble test deliver design and really ultimately support it.
But you're not going to be able to command very high margins on the buyouts of these business.
So what we're seeing is the market is starting to move back to more normal levels and typically what you'll see is it will undershoot in the down cycle and it will overshoot if capacity gets real tight.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And just a last one for me just for Tom Pajonas just a clarification.
On the Flow Control business is the margin coming in lower all mix or did you see any disruption from you moving to the COO role or is that just all mix and you expect margin to come back? Yes I'll take the latter part of that question first.
I mean the management team there is very capable of continuing to execute and expanding the business going forward.
So I'm very confident in the management team there.
The gross margin issue had a lot to do with the mix shift to the original equipment.
Also it had to do with -- we took some shipments that were lower margin strategically in the oil and gas area particularly in the Middle East in order to build up the backlog there get the capacity for some of our facilities in Europe and to begin to look at the aftermarket business there.
So I would say we're aware when we took those jobs that that gross margin was going to flow through.
And I'm very confident going forward in terms of the gross margin of that business picking up in future quarters.
Hamzah let me just clarify just one thing I -- somehow we've gotten the notion here that legacy backlog was -- is bad and it is lower margin.
But keep in mind this is what will continue to feed our aftermarket business.
So part of what you've seen us to support us through the downturn and provide good earnings stability and growth in our business is our aftermarket.
And part of this -- a lot of this legacy backlog is directly related to feeding that aftermarket business in future periods.
Our next question comes from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Question bookings.
Quite impressive on your bookings given the fact that you had really no large -- or you called out really no large projects.
Can you give us a sense of the current pricing that's in those bookings right now because it is much as you say shorter cycle? Yes I think in general because a lot of the processes that Tom has talked about and really what we see on the horizon in terms of projects the quality of our backlog improved.
And in that there's a number -- price is certainly an element of that.
You also as we look at flow-through and cycle times quality on-time delivery all those aspects of us gives us confidence that what we're putting in backlog has an improving margin profile.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Many of my questions have been answered already.
I want to go right to the guidance.
Mike called out 100 bps to 200 bps year-over-year.
Is that year-over-year on an adjusted basis? Yes that's right.
Q3 versus Q3 net last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay on an adjusted basis though? Yes in terms some of the realignment activities and everything we had yes.
It's just -- if you look at the business in terms of backlog flowing through and backlog flowing through it's 100 bps to 200 bps.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
And you made the comment that it might be a tough hurdle on the bottom line so to take that into consideration.
The other question I have is on the FCD in terms of the margin degradation there a little bit.
I know you sort of spoke about a little bit of the mix shift there.
But has there been any legacy projects or say slow- or no-growth margin projects in that particular segment? I thought the majority of it was in EPD and IPD? Yes that's fair.
But what Tom commented they've started to move into particularly in the Middle East some of these big projects similar to what EPD did.
And that's part of what you saw in this quarter.
But keep in mind we opened a big aftermarket facility there in the first part of this year.
So FCD is starting to leverage some of the capabilities that EPD has had for many years in terms of driving their aftermarket business.
Keep in mind if you think of the evolution of aftermarket it was typically our heritage seal business that drove strong aftermarket growth then the pump business you saw increases there.
Now with this One Flowserve Tom is starting to drive some of the same capabilities across our valve division which typically had a relatively low aftermarket retention.
So it's part of the projects.
And the other thing was as you look at in terms of our capabilities -- broad capabilities on some of these big projects we were able to get our pump seals and valves on them.
Our next question comes from Jamie Sullivan from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to clarify the last question on margins.
You have the 100 to 200 basis point headwind but it doesn't necessarily mean the margins will be down year-over-year.
Looking at 2Q you had the headwind but margins weren't down.
Is that the way to think about it? Well we've got the headwind.
Like you saw on the second quarter we are able to offset it some with better flow through and operational improvement and increase in aftermarket.
All we're trying to do is isolate the impact of the business that's come through that was booked in the downturn for aftermarket business going forward.
And sometimes it was to load the facilities.
There's -- the other things will continue to drive margin improvement overall in the business: cost controls better flow through and the gross margin line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And on the -- you mentioned the legacy backlog and the aftermarket opportunity there.
Can you talk about how the aftermarket capture rate maybe has progressed on backlog today versus 3 or 5 years ago? Well it's certainly a component of the growth.
I mean if you go back and look at our CAGR growth rate in the aftermarket business over the last 5 6 years it's been very very strong.
It has been an amount that's well over the net incremental installed base that's going in around the world.
So part of that is better capture rate of the installed base we put in because as you look at customers out there the equipment’s becoming increasingly complex.
And so oftentimes they want the OEM to service it.
You also have the other dynamics that a lot of their capability is for repair to the customers which is probably our biggest opportunity.
You're seeing the rotation in retirement there or redeployment oftentimes to other parts of the facility.
So we've certainly seen better capture rate.
But you've also seen the benefit of expanded QRC base where we're going in and taking aftermarket capabilities from the customer or to a certain degree some local machine shops.
And also the benefit of our ISG strategy that's really driven around operating optimization for the facility.
So there's a number of things.
But keep in mind as you look at our industry if you just put installed base in our aftermarket would not be going at the rate it was because there's just not that much incremental installed base around the world on an annual basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then one last quick one.
We've heard some mixed commentary from companies on China.
Just curious if you could talk about what you're seeing in the region I guess more on the shorter cycle businesses across the segments.
Well we -- that was one of the areas of growth overall in business and part of being diversified.
I mean it depends on the areas.
Oftentimes on the consumer base you've certainly seen pressure in China.
But a lot of this is infrastructure.
And they are continuing to invest in the infrastructure of the business.
You look beyond -- behind the spend in China you still have the issue where people are moving to major cities and require more power.
You still have more cars on the road for -- on the hydrocarbon side.
So a lot of the things that create this durable demand overall in China play out overall in our business.
Now if you look at any kind of niche areas in the industrial space certainly in the consumer space areas like that then the relative growth does have an impact.
And also keep in mind China has talked about going from growth rate to 9% to 6% overall in the business.
A lot of that on the margin is going to be areas that don't impact our business.
It's going to be consumer or some what I'd call very very short cycle.
In a lot of our short cycle business keep in mind also is replacement.
So these facilities need to continue to operate.
I'd tell you the same thing in Europe is while it does represent approximately 20% of our business that's why you haven't seen it completely go away is because a lot of this is tied to facilities that are currently operating.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research.
I apologize if this was asked.
I jumped on a little bit late.
But just in regard to FX you guys have been hit a bit harder than I think really almost any industrial that I have come across in the second quarter.
Obviously everyone is seeing headwinds but yours is fairly exaggerated.
Can you just kind of discuss how that will flow through? I understand -- from what I understand it's kind of hedging against the mismatch between products sold -- or produced in the European region but maybe sold in different currencies? And I would assume that they would actually result in an improved margin profile later down the line.
But maybe can you just walk through that and talk about what you would anticipate that margin improvement to be if you can and when you would anticipate that benefit to flow through that is offsetting the headwinds that you're seeing in the other income line in Q2? Right.
Well I mean on your general comment around industrials an industrial that has 70% of the business outside of the United States probably are seeing a similar impact to currency.
The one thing -- I don't know specifically their hedging strategies.
But the one thing that may be different is we do hedge our cash flows in our business.
We think cash earnings over the period of time is ultimately the right thing.
So if we have a cost not on every project but in a meaningful amount if we have a cost that’s denominated in euros and a contract that's denominated in dollars we want to lock in the economics.
So that may be something you're seeing different.
But the converse of that would have been last year in the first part of the year where we had earnings below the line related to our marks as well.
Generally around the margin profile a negative mark will tend to indicate margin improvement in future periods depending on when that's ultimately delivered.
Keep in mind the mark is done quarterly.
So if you put the notional -- it's really sitting on backlog.
If you put the notional amount on our order that's in backlog that stays there for 4 quarters you're marking that notional every quarter that comes through.
But ultimately what that means is if the euro has weakened on a dollar-denominated contract you'll get margin expansion and you'll take the negative impact below the line typically in a prior period.
Right.
So based on the pressure that you've seen in Q1 and Q2 and likely you'll see in Q3 do you have a sense of what kind of margin expansion should follow based on the marks you've taken? Well one way to help you out is there is -- I think in our disclosure there's a portion of the mark that's related to our hedges.
And if you just look at what lead times overall in the projects the 3 to 6 quarters you would take that mark if sustained and smooth that over those periods.
That's probably the best way to estimate it.
And that would be your margin impact.
So if you for example had a $6 million mark and nothing else changed over in our business and it was related to hedges you'd look to take that maybe incrementally evenly over the next 4 to 6 quarters.
Got you.
And separately yesterday there was a fairly large acquisition announced within the E&amp;C space.
I'm just curious as far as your relationships with the 2 that are considering combining how does that affect you? Are you kind of a preferred supplier to one of the 2 to both? Do you anticipate more opportunities less opportunity associated with that deal? I don't think it is going to tip the needle either away I mean -- and we'll get more of the details around it.
But generally on these big big projects we work with multiple E&amp;C firms.
Now clearly some we work more closely with than others.
But we don't anticipate that's going to impact our business.
Our next question comes from John Moore from CL King.
Inc.</strong> Two questions on the guidance to start here.
First of all with the foreign currency being an additional $0.50 headwind that offset by the $0.30 from share repurchases and I guess $0.05 from corporate -- the corporate benefit this quarter it looks like you're basically absorbing about $0.15 here in the back half of the year.
And it sounds like the top line might be even a little bit slower than you expected.
So I'm just wondering if there are 1 or 2 items you can point to operationally that are performing better than you had originally anticipated.
Well a couple things.
We haven't changed the indication around our top line.
We had a 5% to 7% range.
We've laid that out I think in earlier periods and it hasn't changed at this point in time.
But I think what you do see is we have been -- we've been able to offset this and some of it is the traction that Tom is getting overall in the business and the focus on costs as well.
But if you think about it as you look at the guidance for the year what clearly you can see from our guidance this quarter going from $0.50 to $1 is the significant impact that volatility and currencies can have in our business.
That's something we certainly can't control.
So what we do is focus on what we can control and driving the improvement.
Inc.</strong> Okay I got it.
I guess the 5% to 7% range that it's -- I'm interested to hear that you're able to still achieve that with the foreign currency headwind.
Have you actually -- I guess can you talk about it organically? Have you actually raised your organic revenue growth forecast for the year? No I mean the organic number is what we give you on the constant currency.
And so you can kind of monitor that.
Keep in mind as we go through the year on a year-over-year compare Q2 would have been one of our toughest but Q3 is as well.
I think the euro was still relatively strong or the dollar was relatively weak to other currencies in the third quarter.
But you saw that abate significantly because the dollar started strengthening in Q4.
So at these levels Q3 is still a tough compare from a currency standpoint but that impact starts abating in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay got it.
Just final question then.
The IPD orders this quarter I thought those were actually pretty strong given the -- what's going on here in the global economy and that does seem to be your shorter cycle business and a little bit more through distribution.
So just curious if there's a specific trend that's benefiting orders there? And I guess what I'm thinking of is the chemical industry and the benefit from I guess the shale gas here in the U.S.
I think they will certainly benefit from some of the trends overall that you're seeing in what we'd call the shorter cycle business also benefiting from some of improvements they've driven.
I mean bottom line is they're taking better care of their customers and the customers are responding.
But my comment around the short cycle growth around moderation I'll remind again it doesn't mean no growth.
It just means for example on FCD they had a I think 25% or 30% constant currency growth in the second quarter of last year.
Those are tough compares.
So we will go back to what we said 4 or 5 years ago don't read too much into just any one quarter.
Look at overall trends.
But what you are seeing is the short cycle business grew nicely in the early part of last year.
That's moderating some but it is still growth.
And what we see next on the horizon is our longer cycle business.
Our next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I'll just go with 2 quick ones and we can follow up later on.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the SG&amp;A how we should think about it.
I know we talked about that it should -- your long-term goal is 18%.
Is there a sequential cost containment expectation that you might have as we go into Q3? Can you see that go down versus Q2 in any of the specific divisions? Well take along quarter-by-quarter keep in mind that Q3 as I mentioned earlier typically is our second lowest absorption quarter.
And that will impact all fixed costs including SG&amp;A.
But let's really look longer-term.
What we want to do over the next 2 years is drive this down towards 18% in our business.
A lot of that comes from growing our business at a rate that's quicker than you're growing your SG&amp;A.
And also we need to take advantage of some of our One Flowserve initiatives as well.
You've seen us over the last couple years hold very very tight on our corporate cost; continue to do that as well.
So it's a lot of things that we're driving but it's really more around driving leverage in our business over the next couple years.
That's part of our margin improvement profile.
So as you kind of take a step back and look at margins improvement in the IPD they had very good cost leverage.
But we see opportunity for them to grow their gross margin levels.
If you can look over history they've been higher than they were at this point in time; grow that as well.
Continue to grow our aftermarket business.
Take advantage of the opportunity of some of the long cycle business and leverage our SG&amp;A.
All those are interrelated.
You can over-tilt on one to the detriment of the others.
So we manage them very systematically across the overall business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then really trying to get a better idea on gross margins as you look into better bid discipline as you discussed and that's how we should start look at the backlog are there any metrics you can provide to -- and give us some comparisons year-over-year on bid discipline? How should we look at that? Well I mean I think Tom's comments around on-time delivery.
I think that's going to correlate to past due backlog and that's going to correlate to working capital and that's going to correlate to margins as well.
So I think just the commentary on how we're making improvement on our operational initiatives coupled with our fixed cost leverage and then our general commentary overall in the market environment are really the best indicators for what our margin profile can be looking forward.
We'll also try to give you as much color as we can over the relatively short term on the impact of maybe some of these legacy backlog projects.
But part of that is why we put these targets out over a multiple-year period is as I made the comment earlier you can drive margins certainly very very very short term but impact your overall margin profile long term.
So we're always striking the balance there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm sorry lastly you had once mentioned fee-based from your aftermarket.
You provided a number of customers and dollar amount.
Do you have some sort of comparison for us on fee-based activity from your aftermarket business? Well I think the number we provided if I recall correctly it was -- we had these alliance agreements about 180 of them.
And that number does continue to increase.
But going back to my comments originally and my remarks is we still -- even though you can have a fee-based or a contract we must earn the right to serve our customers every day.
And so we don't get overconfident in the fee-based.
What that does indicate though and we're seeing them increase is how customers move strategically around total cost of ownership and lifecycle cost.
And if you think about where this industry was 10 15 years ago there was the delivery and the commissioning of the facility and then really focused on maybe parts service and repair.
Increasingly customers now are thinking about the operation of their facility over 5 to 10 years and that's where we're starting to pick up some of these fee-based opportunities.
This time we have a question from Charlie Brady.
Sorry if I missed it but can you give us what the fully diluted share count was at June 30? Say again? What were the total fully -- what was the fully diluted share count at the end of the quarter on June 30? Shares outstanding on the face of the Q is 51.129.
The weighted average was 54.266.
The 51.129 that's of July 23 or so.
I guess what I'm trying to get to is there were share repurchases that happened subsequent to June 30 that aren’t reflected -- or are reflected in that.
That's correct.
That's correct.
So do you have what the share count was at the end of the actual second quarter? That's the one he just gave you that was on the face of the document.
I mean you've got a difference between what was the average share count during the quarter because it makes a difference if you buy them in the first day of the quarter and the last day of the quarter.
But that amount on the face of the Q is what will carry forward starting on July 1 into the back half of the year.
Yes okay.
I just want to make sure there wasn't some share repurchase happened in that 23 days that skewed the number.
That's what I was trying to get to really.
Yes so in July? Yes.
I mean we're continuing with them but we'll disclose that as we close out the quarter.
I think what Mike talked about is relative to where we were in the program in the end of the quarter this being June 30.
We expected another 200 million to 240 million during the balance of the year.
Okay.
And on the corporate -- discrete corporate items there was a benefit.
What was -- what exactly was that? Well I mean it's something -- it was just resolution of a matter around accruals.
I mean it was a legal matter that we resolved over a period of time something we've been accruing for systematically over the last couple of years.
So it's part of our business.
But it was related to a legal accrual.
Our next question comes from Stewart Scharf.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But just looking at the DSO and inventory turns and your targets and based on your sensitivity analysis will that translate into say $200 million in cash flow if you got to 65 days and another $350 million to $500 million for the inventory turns based on 4x and 4.5x? Yes Stewart.
Mike.
Yes I think in the Q we disclosed that every day is worth about $13 million now and so we're at 80 around 80 81 days.
So if we get down to mid 60s that's worth about $130 million or so to monetize over that period of time.
And then by increasing our turns we've got some potential benefit there too.
And another roughly say another $50 million to $100 million or so of monetization there potential in all.
And what's the timeframe for that? I think what we said is that the DSO target is a 12- to 18-month period and the turns are 18- to 24-month period.
Thank you.
This concludes the time we have for our question-and-answer session.
I'll now turn it back to Mr.
Mullin.
Thank you operator and thank you all for joining today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Q3 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Mike Mullin.
Mr.
Mullin you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to Flowserve's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being webcast with our earnings presentation via our website at flowserve.com.
Simply click on the Investor Relations tab to access the webcast and the accompanying presentation.
The webcast will be posted at flowserve.com for replay approximately 2 hours following the end of the call.
The replay will stay on the site for on-demand review over the next several months.
Joining us today are Mark Blinn President and CEO; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer.
Following our commentary today we will begin the Q&amp;A session.
Regarding any forward-looking statements I refer you to yesterday's earnings release 10-Q filing and today's presentation slide deck for Flowserve's Safe Harbor presentation statement on this topic.
All of this information can be found at Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
We encourage you to read these statements carefully with respect to our conference call this morning.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mark to begin the formal presentation.
Mark? Thank you Mike and good morning everyone.
As everyone is likely aware Hurricane Sandy continues to impact the upper East Coast of the United States.
At Flowserve our #1 priority is always safety.
Many of our associates and operations are located in and near affected areas.
Likewise we know that a large portion of the financial community and many of you participating in today's call are facing these difficult conditions as well.
We sincerely hope that everyone remains safe and out of harm's way.
We want everyone on the East Coast to know that we are thinking of you and your families and wishing you well.
Let me now begin our prepared remarks.
I am pleased with our solid third quarter results driven by operational progress resulting from our One Flowserve initiative as well as the steps we have taken to improve our capital structure and ultimately increase shareholder value.
I am proud of Flowserve's strong culture of customer commitment and our employees' dedication in positioning the business to target and grow bookings in our diverse end markets.
While our current outlook is somewhat cautious due to the soft macro conditions in Europe as well as moderating growth in Asia which together have increased uncertainty in our end markets we continue to focus on the items we can control to best position Flowserve to capture the infrastructure investment that is needed around the world including our successful aftermarket business.
This quarter we delivered solid earnings growth in spite of significant currency headwinds.
Mike will provide further details but as you know a strengthening dollar materially impacts our reported results since nearly 2/3 of our business is outside the U.S.
and subject to currency translation.
Our bookings growth of 2.3% or 9% when adjusted for currency included our first large project order of the year.
IPD booked over $90 million of original equipment orders to support offshore oil and gas development.
We remain optimistic about the medium- to long-term infrastructure investment opportunities in our energy end markets particularly in North America the Middle East and Brazil.
Additionally our focused end-user aftermarket strategies continue to produce positive results.
We were recently awarded a 5-year service agreement with Dow Benelux to perform maintenance of its rotating equipment and general machining in its Dutch facility.
Our commitment to localization includes the buildout of a QRC to support Dow as well as other customers in the area.
This is a great example of the types of programs our end-user strategies target and the value we can add as customers increasingly look for a trusted partner to help improve the efficiency of their facilities and better manage their smaller service vendors.
Operating margins improved sequentially and year-over-year in spite of the overall mix shift to lower-margin original equipment.
Margins were also negatively impacted by shipments of lower-margin legacy backlog.
Our improved margins reflect the operational excellence progress that Tom and his leadership team are making as they drive on-time delivery lower past due backlog manage costs improve the supply chain and reduce the cost of quality throughout the business.
We believe that we are gaining share in many of our markets while we simultaneously increase the discipline and selectivity of our bidding process.
Also we continue to see steady progress in IPD as it moves towards its 14% to 15% margin goal.
Simply put I am pleased with the progress of Tom's team but opportunities remain for further improvement.
Our solid backlog of nearly $2.9 billion up over 7% since year end has us well positioned to deliver on our financial targets for 2012 and beyond.
We are particularly pleased that the quarter-end aftermarket backlog exceeded $700 million for the first time.
And I'm proud that we've been successful in consistently growing our aftermarket franchise even through difficult market conditions in 2009.
Turning to our business outlook softening economic conditions in certain regions may push out the timing of some previously expected later-cycle large project investments.
We remain confident that these projects will go forward since these investments are needed by the increasing global urban populations.
Market uncertainty and volatility highlight the importance of Flowserve's diverse global platform and its ability to mitigate risk especially through our aftermarket end-user strategies.
During the quarter we also executed our long-term strategic initiative to improve the efficiency of our capital structure by taking advantage of our investment-grade status and attractive debt markets.
We also continue to execute on our previously announced $1 billion share repurchase program which we expect to complete next year.
Even as we improve balance sheet efficiency our commitment to increasing shareholder value through profitable growth remains both organically and through bolt-on acquisitions.
We will pursue opportunities to fill product geographic and technical gaps in our portfolio using a disciplined process focused on growing long-term value for our shareholders.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter and full year 2013 I'm confident as evidenced by our strong year-to-date performance through the third quarter that Flowserve's combination of operational improvements the diverse end markets and geographies we serve and almost $2 billion annual aftermarket run rate position us well to continue to capture profitable growth margin improvement share gain and create long-term value for our shareholders even while considering the continuing uncertain and sometimes volatile macroeconomic environment.
With that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark discussed we are pleased with our third quarter results with bookings of $1.19 billion up 2.3% versus prior year despite the impact from a stronger U.S.
dollar and the economic challenges facing Europe.
Our consolidated book to bill was 1.02 driven by a solid aftermarket book to bill of 1.04.
While we continue to see elevated levels of feed and pre-feed activity through the third quarter versus prior year we now anticipate the larger megaproject orders shifting to the mid to second half of 2013.
Turning to our year-to-date bookings by end market.
We saw strength in the oil and gas and chemical industries along with modest growth in the general industries and water business.
Regionally the improvement has been concentrated in North America Asia Pacific and Latin America partially offset by lower bookings into the Middle East/Africa and to a lesser extent Europe.
Overall the oil and gas business continues its broad-based positive long-term outlook with North American pipeline business positively reacting to increased oil and gas transport activity.
Other areas of pipeline project developments showing promise include the Middle East Argentina and Colombia with offshore platform work continuing in Brazil.
In August we had a grand opening of our $37 million Rio plant investment that allows Flowserve to expand our existing footprint in the Brazilian market including a state-of-the-art test facility.
In the power market coal-fired plant opportunities in China and India remain on the horizon as well as the potential for coal-to-gas conversion opportunities in the U.S.
for both full and partial conversions.
With the abundance of shale gas combined cycle plants will bear the brunt of providing new capacity requirements.
The chemical market has seen good growth year-to-date particularly in China and the Middle East.
Additional shale gas finds in the U.S.
and the abundance of existing shale gas will allow new chemical production to take place competitively in the U.S.
for the global marketplace.
Fertilizer plant opportunities also continue to drive the market.
The mining sector has been mixed with concerns about overcapacity and demand particularly in Europe and to a lesser degree in China which have dampened the short-term outlook.
Turning to the year-to-date sales mix by region.
We grew the top line 5.5% or 11.2% on a constant currency basis.
We have seen strong activity in Asia Pacific and North America and an increase in Latin America which more than offset European weakness.
Now let me discuss our segment results for the third quarter.
The Engineered Product division bookings decreased $14 million to $554 million down 2.4% but up 4.1% on a constant currency basis.
Oil and gas bookings increased in the quarter along with improvements in the water bookings in North America offset by a decrease in power.
Regionally we saw higher bookings in the Middle East and North America more than offset by decreased bookings into Europe Asia Pacific and a slight decrease in Latin America.
Sales decreased $7 million to $568 million down 1.2% but up 5.3% on a constant currency basis driven by lower original equipment sales and decreased sales into Europe and Latin America partially offset by higher activity in Asia Pacific and North America.
Aftermarket sales increased 2% or 7% on a constant currency basis.
Gross margin increased 30 basis points to 33.9% positively impacted by some shipments of higher-margin backlog as compared to the first half of 2012 as well as a mix shift to aftermarket sales and the benefits of lower cost associated with operational execution improvements.
Operating margin declined 70 basis points to 15.3% due primarily to higher SG&amp;A on increased sales-related expenses.
EPD signed a 5-year services contract with Dow Benelux to provide maintenance and machine shop functions in the Netherlands to support Dow's local rotating equipment population of around 7 000 pumps.
This maintenance agreement effectively outsources this work to Flowserve.
Bookings in the Industrial Product division increased $60 million to $284 million up 27% or 34.6% on a constant currency basis driven by improved activity in the oil and gas industry.
This was due in large part to original equipment orders in excess of $90 million to supply thrusters over the next 5 years which are used to stabilize and position offshore oil and gas platforms.
This strength in Latin America combined with increased North America pipeline activity were partially offset by some softness in Europe.
Chemical orders were also up.
Sales increased $28 million to $244 million up 13% or 18.6% on a constant currency basis.
Strength in Asia Pacific North America and Latin America was partially offset by lower sales into Europe.
Original equipment sales were up 23% versus prior year or up 29% on a constant currency basis as the sales mix shifted 600 basis points from prior year to 70% original equipment and 30% aftermarket.
Gross margin increased to 70 basis points to 24.3%.
The improvement reflects continued traction on the IPD operational plan as we improve operational excellence our on-time delivery the supply chain and focus on disciplined cost management.
Operating margin improved 320 basis points to 10.9% as a result of improved SG&amp;A leverage increased sales volume and the overall improvement in gross margin due to contract execution.
IPD is realizing the benefits of our 2011 realignment activities ongoing continuous improvement initiatives on-time delivery SG&amp;A expense control disciplined pricing policies and overall contract execution.
I remain confident that we have taken the necessary steps to reach the targeted 14% to 15% operating margin by 2015.
The Flow Control division had a tough quarterly comparison to prior year.
Bookings decreased $29 million to $381 million down 7% as reported or down 1.1% on a constant currency basis.
While most end markets were down we did see improved bookings in the power industry resulting from increased aftermarket nuclear activity in Korea and in Europe.
Regionally bookings improved into Europe and more specifically in Russia as a result of increased repeating [ph] orders but this improvement was more than offset by declines in the Middle East/Africa and Latin America.
Sales increased $26 million to $395 million up 7.2% or 14.2% on a constant currency basis versus prior year.
Sales growth was driven by original equipment sales in the oil and gas sector resulting from regional strength in Asia Pacific North America Middle East and Latin America which more than offset decreased sales into Europe and Africa.
Gross margins decreased 30 basis points to 35.4% due primarily to a shift in product line mix and a mix shift to original equipment.
Operating margin was unchanged at 17.3%.
Although operating income was up 7.1% or up 14.9% on a constant currency basis due to higher sales and cost control.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was down 60 basis points to 18.2% as we continue to drive operational efficiency in the Flow Control division.
In summary we are pleased with our progress of our initiatives in supply chain on-time delivery contract execution and quality improvements as we drive towards greater operational excellence.
Looking forward to our end markets the oil and gas markets continue to see long-term growth prospects in the upstream production and transport areas with large megaprojects in the downstream area shifting to the mid to the second half of 2013.
Power should continue at its current levels over the short term.
The chemical market is beginning to show signs of softening to some degree while mining appears to be mixed in the short term based on concerns about overcapacity and demand brought about by the world economic picture.
With that I would now like to turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Over the last several months I have met with many of you to discuss our earnings risk profile and the benefits derived from our diverse end markets geographies and short cycle and long cycle exposures.
We view this diversified lower risk profile as a key differentiator for Flowserve that allows us to constantly make and meet commitments and return value to our shareholders.
As we look at year-to-date bookings our focus on end-user strategy and our critical application engineering solutions for our customers has enabled us to drive organic growth above market growth.
This is evident in our growing bookings despite a challenging macroeconomic environment.
Overall year-to-date bookings increased $109 million up 3.1% or 8.4% on a constant currency basis.
We are pleased with this growth as we increased our aftermarket capture and grew our installed base above market growth.
The increase was driven primarily by the oil and gas and chemical industries which more than offset decreased bookings within the power industry.
When we look at year-to-date sales numbers the mix shifted 1% in favor of original equipment which generally carries a lower margin than the aftermarket business and can pressure the margin profile.
Sales increased $178 million over prior year up 5.5% or 11.2% on a constant currency basis.
At the end of last year we had guided to top line revenue growth of 5% to 7% over 2011 and I am pleased that we are tracking in that range despite the stronger-than-expected currency headwinds through the first 9 months of the year.
Turning to the financial results.
Sales for the third quarter increased 3.9% year-over-year or almost 11% on a constant currency basis.
The sales increase was primarily driven by original equipment sales in IPD and FCD.
Gross margins were down 20 basis points in the third quarter versus 2011 due to a mix shift towards original equipment partially offset by operational improvements.
Similar to the first half of the year there were approximately 200 basis points of margin impact due to low-margin projects flowing through earnings.
While we anticipate shipping the majority of the remaining legacy backlog in the fourth quarter we expect to see margin improvement on increased volume and better fixed cost leverage which should more than offset this legacy impact.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in the third quarter decreased 60 basis points to 19.5% over the prior year primarily due to better cost management.
Operating margins in the third quarter were up 40 basis points to 14.2% on lower SG&amp;A partially offset by lower gross margin I discussed.
As we look at other expense income line we continue to incur negative currency impacts due to the volatile U.S.
dollar.
The $0.12 loss below the line is primarily related to balance sheet revaluations in Mexico the Eurozone and India.
Additionally the stronger dollar versus the third quarter of 2011 resulted in an above-the-line translation impact of $0.18.
So on a year-to-date basis we have experienced $0.85 of currency-related headwinds when compared to 2011 with approximately $0.45 above the line and $0.40 below the line.
Our effective tax rate for Q3 was 26.1% which is below our structural rate of 28% to 30% but was still above last year's unusual low third quarter rate of 22.9%.
We continue to expect the full year 2012 rate to be at the lower end of the 28% to 30% range.
Turning to cash flows.
We had another strong quarter as we remain focused on improving cash flow conversion.
We generated $63 million in operating cash flow in Q3 or $123 million year-to-date which is a $273 million improvement over prior year.
CapEx in the second quarter (sic) [third quarter] was $27 million.
We have invested $84 million year-to-date and continue to expect capital expenditures to be in the $125 million to $135 million range for the full year.
As Mark mentioned we made progress in the quarter on our long-term capital structure strategy as we move towards our targeted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1x to 2x.
We issued $500 million of 10-year public notes and executed a new $1.25 billion bank credit facility.
At the end of the quarter total debt to EBITDA was 1.2x.
The total financing activity resulted in fees and a write-off of deferred financing costs totaling approximately $1.4 million.
This more efficient capital structure will continue to provide us with the flexibility necessary to grow the business organically and through strategic bolt-on acquisitions with room to return capital to shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased $101 million of shares which brought our year-to-date buyback total to $534 million.
Our $1 billion share repurchase program has $524 million remaining which we expect to complete next year.
We also returned $18 million to our shareholders in dividends in the third quarter and $56 million year-to-date.
I would like to spend some time on how we view allocation of shareholder capital.
This slide visually shows the systematic process the management team and our board contemplates when determining how best to use capital.
We are committed to profitably growing our business both organically and through strategic bolt-on acquisitions that provide a tight fit and available synergies.
However when making the decision to deploy capital our larger goal is to allocate capital to the most attractive alternative that provides the highest risk-adjusted return to our shareholders over the long term.
Turning to working capital.
Improving our performance in cash conversion metrics remains a priority of mine.
Earlier in the year we engaged a specialized consultant in this area to work with our Black Belts to evaluate working capital activity at several of our largest sites around the world.
The results and recommendations from this work were beneficial and are now being used to drive improvements to the company's working capital efficiency.
In the third quarter DSO increased 3 days versus prior year to 85 days.
We typically see a slight seasonal increase in DSO in Q3.
That said I still see an attractive opportunity with our disciplined focus on cash collection and the improvements we are making on the front-end bidding process to drive DSO into the mid-60s over the next 9 to 15 months.
As it relates to inventory turns decreased marginally to 2.7x versus prior year at 2.8x.
With Tom's focus on on-time delivery reducing past-due backlog and cost of quality we believe we will reach our long-term target of 4 to 4.5 turns over the next 15 to 21 months.
As I have stated previously working capital is receiving a significant amount of my attention and we will remain committed to this area until we drive these metrics to the targeted levels.
So as we take a look at the remainder of 2012 we expect strong performance despite the expected negative impact of currency and the planned shipment of the remaining lower-margin legacy backlog.
We believe increased volume and absorption and the effects of our share repurchase program will more than offset the currency headwinds in legacy projects.
As you know we have seen significant foreign currency volatility with the strengthening U.S.
dollar during the first 3 quarters versus 2011.
We are now estimating a full year currency headwind of approximately $1 to $1.10 versus 2011 slightly higher than the $1 we estimated at the end of Q2 and the $0.50 impact we forecasted at the beginning of the year.
This foreign currency headwind should be partially offset by approximately $0.30 of net benefit related to share repurchase activity in 2012 although somewhat offset by higher borrowing costs related to the increased leverage.
So all told we are narrowing our 2012 EPS guidance range to $8.20 to $8.70.
Finally I would like to welcome Jay Roueche to the Flowserve team as our Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Most recently Jay served a similar role for McDermott International.
I've had the pleasure of working with him in the past and look forward to getting out on the road with him and meeting many of you again soon.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike.
Thanks Mike.
Operator we're ready to open the line for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Mike Halloran from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> So on the deferrals and the pushouts that you were talking about could you discuss kind of the end markets that those are the most prevalent in? And how much of it is you're seeing the deferrals already versus expectations for deferrals based on customer commentary and things like that? It think it's more of the latter in terms of -- we note -- we stay in close contact with these customers.
You've seen a lot of these projects oil and gas some in the power even some on the chemical side getting booked into the EMCs.
But as that process goes along in the feed work and it moves to final bid stage in talking to customers you can just see they get pushed out a quarter or 2.
This is -- we're not in a situation where we were when we talk about looking forward back in '08 not even close.
But it's the same thing.
You just kind of continue to have a dialogue.
You know these things are coming forward.
There's been a tremendous amount invested in them and so we just stay in touch with our customers.
Research Division</strong> And if we would have talked last quarter maybe the quarter before that you would have said first half next year with some of these larger projects getting led out on the marketplace it sounds like that's more mid to late next year expectation at this point? Yes.
Coming in last year about this time we were targeting right around the end of this year and then we saw them slip to Q1 and now we've seen them slip another quarter.
So all in all they've slipped 2 maybe 3 quarters since we started looking at these things last year.
Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense.
And then an update on the One Flowserve concept and specifically on some of the cost of quality initiatives that Mike and the team are pushing through with Tom could you just provide an update there and specifically what the acceptance level looks like in the EPD and IPD pieces where a lot of the focus was being pushed? Well if you take a step back in general these things certainly do take time and that's why I made a comment in my opening comments about work remains to be done.
But I think what you've seen in IPD are some of the early signs of the impact of really Tom's leadership and his team.
I think in general if you look across our overall margins and our SG&amp;A you're starting to see some of the impact of the One Flowserve in our -- in that line in terms of fixed cost leverage overall in our business.
But in looking forward I'd still think driving through EPD as we get the legacy backlog and start getting the benefit from some of the discipline that they brought in that is yet to come.
Obviously there's -- we see more margin improvement for IPD as well.
And then also if you look back and think around the FCD business starting to be able to leverage some of the capabilities we've seen over in IPD and EPD that is yet to come as well.
So there is definitely still work to be done.
I think Tom spent a lot of time with the -- his organization that he laid out for you in the Analyst Day.
They're getting a good cadence and getting some good momentum.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
The last one for me then just tax rate guidance low end of the 28% to 30% range is where I think Mike said it was going to come in for the full year.
That -- is that the -- I guess the question's twofold.
One for the fourth quarter if you're going to get a full year range in that low low end of that range it implies something north of 30% so maybe just clarification on whether the fourth quarter guidance on the tax rate is closer to that low end and then also what the appropriate level to think about is as you work through '13 '14 and beyond.
Yes yes I'd say Mike the lower -- for the fourth quarter we'll be at the lower end of that tax range that 28% to 30% range.
Research Division</strong> And then for 2013? Yes I'd -- we'll comment on 2013 in a quarter or so.
Just remember a lot of that Mike is driven by mix domestic versus foreign.
So last year when you saw that higher tax rate that was because we had strong performance in the United States.
As we understand it now the U.S.
has now the highest tax jurisdiction.
Our next question comes from Charlie Brady from BMO Capital Markets.
Just back on the project pushouts I just want to make sure I'm clear.
The projects some of it has been pushed out.
Is there any of that in the current backlog or bookings now or is that just stuff that has not been let that you thought was going to be let but now is pushed out? Right it's the latter.
It's yet to be booked.
So when we talk about -- when we're talking about project opportunities that's remarks around future bookings.
Okay.
Thanks for that clarification.
And just on the EPD because I know you -- in the prepared remarks you said the legacy projects impacted margin by about 200 basis points or so.
Can you just spell that out just for the EPD business itself? Because you obviously had pretty strong year-over-year flip on the OE aftermarket mix which sounds like it's being masked -- the margin improvement is being masked by this legacy stuff.
Well I think I'll jump in real quick.
Mike's comments were -- most of the impact is in EPD but there is some in IPD as well and even a small amount in FCD.
If you recall back in late 2010 early 2011 there were quite a few projects big projects that were led out in the Middle East that were very very competitive and all 3 of our units had participated in those.
So that's some of what's coming through.
And I'll remind you from my comments on the last earnings call don't associate these with bad projects associate them with the time in which they were bid and look forward and think about the aftermarket opportunities that they represent.
Right right.
On the dollar-to-dollar patent headwind obviously $0.15 to $0.25 obviously in the fourth quarter of that.
Can you split that between how much you're seeing those above or versus below the line in Q4? Charlie I'd say a majority of that's above the line 80-plus percent.
Okay.
So one more and I'll get back on the queue.
On the DSO driving that to the mid-60s.
If you were to get to that level or when you get to that level I guess how much -- can you quantify how much additional cash generation that implies? It's about $13 million $14 million a day.
Our next question comes from Hamzah Mazari from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just first question you talked about the pushout of these projects not being similar to 2009.
Maybe if you could talk about how investors should view current excess capacity in the marketplace.
And if you do see these projects maybe continue to get pushed out maybe early 2014 what do you think the impact on the pricing environment could look like? Well it is as you -- our capacity will look multiple years out and we see these project opportunities as we've talked about before in infrastructure being available over the next couple of years.
That's different if you're referring to back to 2009 as to when we didn't know when the cycle was going to abate.
We've been through kind of a lower cycle over the last couple of years and there is need for investment.
So that's how capacity is going to look going forward in terms of the project opportunities.
It's not going to -- capacity especially on a long-cycle project the focus is around 12 to 18 months in terms of being worried about absorption.
And if so if these things push out a quarter or 2 that's not going to have a significant impact.
If the market were to come to a view that it could been over an 18-month period then on the margin that could start to impact pricing.
But we don't see that at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
It makes sense.
And then just a follow question on the aftermarket side are you beginning to see more customers outsource? And maybe talk about what is driving that change from some of these customers doing this in-house and just your view there.
Yes I mean it's a long discussion but I'll try to summarize it.
Complexity increased complexity so the capabilities of customers local machine shops and everything relative to that complexity is not there.
And I think the second thing is you do have an aging population of engineers particularly in the United States where they are going to be looking to outsource that bandwidth to companies that can address the complexity and be a responsible rolling a business and then reliability in terms of responsiveness as well.
So those are trends you're seeing in the aftermarket business.
And you add to that a lot of our end-user strategies.
This is moving way beyond where it was 20 years ago in terms of break fix or just providing quick turn parts into efficiency quality reliability of these big big projects.
That's becoming increasingly important.
And so as you look around the world installed base is just that.
It is there and permanent and unless they shut it down they always need to seek a way to optimize that capacity.
And that's really where our end-user strategies are targeted.
Hamza I would also add that as we start to see more maintenance monitoring taking place on these large projects in plants we're going to see more of this trend continuing going forward.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I was wondering where you are seeing weakness in chemical.
Is that North America and Europe? Primarily over in Europe.
I mean what you're seeing in Europe even relative to where we were a year ago is weakness almost in all of our sectors as they kind of work through their financial issues and their uncertainty themselves.
In the United States you still have a market a chemical market that's out there but we're lapping pretty tough compares.
There was a big growth last year in the U.S.
chemical industry.
So as we look forward there certainly is softness but there's opportunities to bid projects.
There's one in the Middle East.
There's opportunities here in the United States that are going to give us opportunities going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Could you also give us an update on where some of the Korean EPCs are showing up around the world as you go out and bid? Well they're -- they bid very actively in the Middle East in '09 '10 '11 and it actually consumed quite a bit of their capacity so we don't see them moving as quickly as they did before.
And you're starting to see that more in the Westerns now that they're reporting some of their project opportunities.
They are still fairly active in the power industry.
They have been.
We expect they will continue to be.
For instance we're seeing some of the Koreans now looking at the U.K.
nuclear market and potentially getting into that market also.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
So the year is tracking pretty much as you guys said from the beginning which is great.
I'm just wondering the fourth quarter guidance is still kind of why and I'm wondering what kind of -- the thinking is behind the lower end the things that transpire there versus some of the things that come to fruition on the higher end is it something internal? Is it timing of shipments? Maybe you can lay that out a little bit for us.
I'll summarize real quick.
I mean the big thing is currency Scott.
You saw $0.30 impact in this quarter 12% below the line.
You saw 17% below the line in the second quarter and then there is volatility in our tax rate.
I think what you've seen has been pretty consistent in our performance this year it's good leverage on our sales in the operating income line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
But then to that end since it is -- if it is internal then if we were to just stay status quo from here on currencies not that they will of course but the guidance that Mike provided there on what you guys are expecting for the fourth quarter does that land you -- if it stays status quo does that land you toward the higher end toward the lower end or is that something going right in the middle? Well I mean Scott we're not going to comment on a precise number there.
I mean I think that's really the kind of the purpose of the range.
I will note obviously that the midpoint did increase $0.05 so we do feel good about the year.
We think Q4 will be a strong quarter as it has traditionally been for the company.
But as Mark said if you ask me what was one of the things that surprised me in Q3 it would have been currency.
We certainly weren't forecasting $0.12 below the line much less $0.18 above the line.
So I'd say the $0.50 range just gives us a little bit of cushion for some potential volatility not only in the euro but other currencies that we're seeing in Mexico Latin America in India and other regions of the world where we operate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last question a simple one could you give us the end-of-quarter share count? End-of-quarter fully diluted share count was 51 285.
On the phase of the 10-Q as of October 23 it was 49 9.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wait well can you just-- maybe I'm misunderstanding.
You're saying the end-of-quarter share count versus the phase of the 10-Q -- oh I see.
I'm sorry for the optional share.
I get it sorry.
No no.
The Q has to bring down the share count to the date of the filing which is beyond the end of the quarter which would've included some share repurchasing activity in the first 23 days of October.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just back to the project slippages just trying to get a sense I don't know if you said but where -- within which markets exactly are you seeing the slippages? I think you were insinuating that it was downstream but I was curious if there was other markets that are showing some of that slippage as well.
And also on the downstream particularly in the U.S.
I know some of these petrochem projects are starting to hit EPC.
Are people -- I'm just kind of curious the nature of the pushout is it people reconsidering the economics of these projects is it really logistics because of the size of the projects? If you could just a little more color on that it'd be appreciated.
Yes I would say first of all primarily on the oil and gas side of the business and even though the long-term trends are looking good it's more on the refining business than on the upstream production and transportation.
The upstream production and transportation business is not where that pushout is occurring.
The pushout is occurring for a couple of different regions -- reasons just we probably got a little bit of a pause going on relative to what's going on with the oil prices worldwide and project financing and a few other issues.
But we're talking about the oil and gas business and on the refining side of the business.
But as we mentioned we're still confident these things are going to go forward.
There's been a tremendous amount invested in them.
Brian I'd say just spending the last 6-years-plus before coming to Flowserve in the EMC business that's something we see routinely.
So the EMCs are-- similar to what you're hearing from EMCs as well not unusual for these large multi-billion dollar projects to move to the right as they're just going through their pre-FEED and FEED activity.
So I'd say no cause for alarm just wanted to update you on when we thought we would be seeing some of these projects going to market and actually hitting our books.
Before we're saying Q1 now I think what we're saying is  Q2 Q3 timeframe next year.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And just on EPD you talked about higher selling costs maybe just a little color on what that entails.
And is that likely to continue into Q4 of next year.
If you could quantify it it'd be good.
I think it's more just an investment -- primarily around our end user strategy and some of the aftermarket business we've had some investment in selling costs.
And to some extent Lawrence had some selling costs within -- being in the consolidated results for our full year.
LLC</strong> Can you quantify the amount of headwind you saw in the quarter? And is that expected to continue or no? It wasn't headwind.
I think what is was saying is we had some increased selling costs to support our aftermarket business and our seal business.
And then also you're just seeing the add of Lawrence Pumps in there too year-over-year.
LLC</strong> Okay I got you.
And then just lastly for Mike so you guys did raise a lot of debt during the quarter obviously allocating it to buyback.
At $1.2 billion are you kind of settled with that debt balance for now or do you anticipate you might have some increase in the next few quarters or so? Well we're -- I'd say we're at the lower end of our target range of 1.2x debt to EBITDA.
As you know we said we want to operate in that 1x to 2x range.
So we will continue to monitor that.
I mean at the end of the day though as we talked about we firmly believe our job is to allocate capital to the most accretive method possible and all and that's really a decision we'll make quarter in and quarter out.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could I just get a clarification on the share count there? You said 51 285 was the end-of-quarter diluted share count.
The 49 9 on the  cover is a basic share count correct? That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I was just making sure you hadn't bought back 1.3 million shares in the last 23 days.
I don't think so.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
And I guess a question for Tom FCD has had a couple of negative order quarters in a row.
I know a fairly large portion of that goes through distribution.
Have you seen any impact there from distributor de-stocking or OEM de-stocking for that matter? The distribution business has held up quite nicely in the year-over-year compare and sequentially.
I would say that the distribution is one of those businesses that is more prone to more GDP-type changes in the marketplace but it's held up quite nicely.
As a matter fact on the sales side the sales distribution business was up very slightly year-over-year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So what do you attribute the bookings weakness in FCD then? I mean we had a very tough compare.
I mean we have one of the highest bookings last year.
It's almost $409 million so that's one of the reasons.
But with some softening on the chemical side of the business we did have as I mentioned some good district heating in Russia.
We did again have some good aftermarket business on the nuclear side.
And then the oil and gas business on the -- let's say shorter-term business was down slightly.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Mike on that balance sheet you're talking about 1x to 2x gross debt to EBITDA.
But at the pace you're going to complete this buyback by the second half of next year you're only going to be spending about as much cash flow as you're generating if that much and your net leverage is probably down closer to 0.5 turn or something like that.
Isn't it more realistic to focus on what your net leverage is? Well I mean I think you can focus on multiple metrics.
I think we just -- we chose to focus on the growth metric.
But I will tell you that there's a lot of opportunities out there for investments and we continue to monitor those inorganic or bolt-on type opportunities out there.
We're seeing various deals on a quarterly basis.
Obviously we haven't done anything this year to date but that doesn't mean we won't and all with the right fit with the right synergies and all.
So we'll just -- as I said before we'll continue to monitor capital deployment in the most accretive ways.
Nathan one of the reasons we don't look at it net is there is a frictional element to cash that's overseas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And I guess seeing as we're talking about M&amp;A how is the pipeline looking at the moment? Well I mean we're active out there looking for things that fit.
I mean we like things like Lawrence Pumps that we had last year.
It's something we can integrate fairly quickly and provide a return to our shareholders so it's good.
You've seen some assets change hands in the marketplace and so we certainly keep an eye out for things.
But what we want to do is make sure we evaluate all of these things in terms of what's the best return for our shareholders.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just slip one more in I'm going to see if I can get anything out of you about next year.
I understand currency has been a significant drag on the actual dollar bookings numbers.
Year-to-date orders are up about 3% over last year and backlog's up about the same amount.
Is that 3% order in backlog growth rate kind of the way we should be thinking about an organic revenue growth as a baseline for 2013? I mean there's a lot of our business that comes in during the current year particularly as you look at our aftermarket business and some of our shorter-cycle business as well.
So it's not necessarily all long lead time type projects that you can use that to map revenue for next year.
And some of it as you look next year is going to be what the impact of currency is.
It could still provide an additional headwind to us next year.
But our focus is on and I made this in my comment the market growth opportunities that are out there in general and how we participate.
One of the things that we talked about was we see opportunity in oil and gas power relatively stable and the chemical markets some softness but with opportunity in there.
And then what we do to drive share gain in those particular sectors as well and then the benefit that we expect to see in terms of some of these larger long lead time projects that are out there.
So keep in mind if we book a big project towards the end of the next year typically we won't see the revenues until the following year.
But that's -- probably the best way to think in terms of our revenue is what our markets are going to provide driving our aftermarket growth as you've seen us do up to this point and focus on share gain.
We also have the benefit -- we'll get the incremental benefit of Lawrence Pumps growing some of our other acquisitions some of our product introductions as well.
We've been spending money on R&amp;D.
So what you're getting a very short synopsis of kind of how we go through our planning process and think about how we're going to grow our business next year.
Our next question comes from Robert Barry from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to comment in the deck about expecting the legacy backlog to be removed as a margin issue in 2013.
I mean just order of magnitude is that about a 200-basis-point tailwind? Yes we've talked about it during the course of the year 100 to 200 basis points if we walk through.
And I think Mike's comments for this quarter were 200 so it's a good way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> And just given the way it's tracking I mean would it be fair to say that the biggest year-over-year delta from that stress would be kind of weighted to the first half where the absence of that stress on the margins? No it'd actually be more towards the end because you're -- it started out and actually the pace of shipping it has increased during the course of the year.
And then also we talked about on the last call some of these things were waiting on basically some supplies from some suppliers if they don't come in in the end of year it could go over into the first quarter of next year.
But for the most part we will have executed on this legacy backlog in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Another question on margins in EPD I think there was some mention of higher selling-related expenses there and I just wanted to drill down on what that was if that was sales force investment or what it is and then how long it's going to stay elevated.
Well it is a couple of things.
When you talk about these long lead time projects that are -- we expect to see next year you have to start building some of the capabilities to support bidding those and executing on those so that's one area.
Another area is we've seen good growth in our seal business and a lot of that is because of the sales force we've dedicated to it as well.
And then finally in our end-user strategies aftermarket a lot of which is in EPD we've invested in some resources and including QRCs folks basically on the ground to drive that business as well and I think the last thing in the SG&amp;A line is just the inclusion of the Lawrence Pumps' SG&amp;A year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Got you got you.
Okay.
And then just a couple of housekeeping items.
The interest expense of course that surprisingly tracked higher this quarter.
I mean just for modeling purposes going forward is the 3Q level or maybe a little bit higher kind of level we should be using quarterly? Yes and I think it's pretty fair.
But the range we're at for this quarter is directly in line with what you'll see kind of in future quarters.
You did have -- as Mike mentioned you did have that deal cost in there.
Just keep that in mind Robert.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry how much was that? $1.4 million.
That's $1.4 million but also you'll have a full quarter of the volumes in there as well next quarter so kind of I'd say directionally where we are for this quarter would be where we will be for Q4 as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the repo activity I think you did just over $100 million this quarter.
Is that what the expectation would be for fourth quarter as well? Yes I think we'll be in that.
We may be slightly higher.
I'd say we'll kind of be in that 120 to 140 range or so for Q4.
Our next question comes from Sid Panda from for RBC Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The first question I had was regarding the share buyback.
Earlier you had said that it will be completed in the 6 to 12 months' timeframe.
And now the press release says 2013.
So has there been some moderation in the plan to buy back shares in 2013? No I'd say no moderation.
I mean we're pretty much right on schedule.
We talked about last quarter in the conference call that we'd be in the 200 to 240 range for the next 6 months.
This quarter we purchased $101 million.
And as I just mentioned I think next quarter or Q4 you'll see us in the 120 to 140 range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the next question I had was on the DSO and working capital targets.
Could you give some specific examples of steps being taken to reach the DSO goals? You talked about an expert being brought in and some steps being implemented.
Could you elaborate on that a bit? Yes I'd say overall as it relates to just the working capital project in general we did have a specialized consultant work with us this quarter with a number of our black belts and go out and visit several of our large sites.
I'd say the results and findings were kind of threefold.
One was revising some of our existing processes implementing some new procedures and also just some cultural issues among the operations and all.
I think we addressed those overall.
You'll start seeing some improvements.
So now we're kind of going from the assessment phase to the implementation phase.
We'll start that in the latter part of the Q4 and that will carry us through a longer period of time into next year as we implement these recommendations.
Our next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I think virtually everything's been answered.
I have 2 follow-up ones though.
One just to be clear no orders have been canceled.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly the cash flow statement implies based on the third quarter that about $3.7 million was the FX impact -- noncash FX impact.
You'd mentioned the balance sheet valuation has an impact below the line.
So that $3.7 million how much of that was below the line? Mike? I'm not sure...
Research Division</strong> Or maybe I can rephrase that.
On the balance sheet revaluation or the below 9 -- below-the-line number how much of it was actually a noncash impact for you? On below the line I mean typically when you're marking the balance sheet or any one of your hedges it's noncash.
Research Division</strong> Right so virtually all of it's noncash.
Yes.
Think of it as noncash.
David let me clean something up from earlier.
We do have from time to time immaterial cancellations in our projects.
They're very very very small.
Research Division</strong> Okay and the market hasn't suggested a material change? No no no.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
I just wanted to clarify that.
Okay so we can look at that -- of $3.7 million noncash item then how would that be divided between above the line and below the line? I'm not sure David.
Let us -- we'll get back to you on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on that FX front with the new treasurer in place what sort of steps can we see to kind of control that volatility in the below-the-line number? I mean can you intimate what you plan to do for next year? That's a great question.
That's something we're going to look at.
I mean that's certainly a big challenge we have when you have really 2/3 of your business that occurs outside of North America and so we are going to review our overall hedging policies and make sure we're doing everything we can do to preserve all the economic value possible in our interim business.
Keep in mind David I mean these hedges are designed to actually reduce cash flow volatility and cash earnings volatility.
The reason the volatility is created is typically the hedged asset is sitting in backlog and you have to mark the hedges every quarter that's just the rules.
So when the accounting rules changed 10 years ago to where you -- around hedge accounting you had to start marking your hedges every quarter.
So what I want to definitely convey is we do -- we run these programs to mitigate risk and to basically hedge the economics of a project that can take 1 year to 1.5 years for us to process through and ultimately collect the cash.
So it's -- I think there's going to be volatility typically and you see it in other companies as well as long as you see there's tremendous volatility of dollars relative to foreign currencies.
Our next question comes from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> You called out the pipeline business specifically in North America as favorable for not only Lawrence Pumps but your valve division as well.
Can you provide some additional color there and really your exposure to underlying pipe primarily long haul? Well I think I mean what you're seeing is a tremendous amount of investment in midstream.
The legacy piping business was typically around natural gas but increasingly now what you're seeing is increased piping into the liquid parts of the world.
That's gas to liquids are actually oil movement around the world larger storage facilities.
And this investment which is installed based on the midstream side presents opportunities.
Really broad-based opportunities in the valve business to your comment earlier because whether it's gas or liquid we have the opportunity on the valve side.
But as there's more investment on the liquids that's where you have rotating equipment.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then given the midstream going into downstream which is your bread and butter if these potential projects that you're talking about continually do get pushed out is it possible maybe in a quarter or so if we don't see them really come to fruition that we do get an announced increase in -- announcement on additional restructuring initiative? I mean no we're -- we don't want to certainly comment on anything like that at this point in time.
What we're doing here is we're sitting here thinking about how to invest in our business.
We'll always look for ways to improve it Bill always in any instance.
But what we see right now and we're still confident that these projects are going to move forward.
We have reached the allotted time for the question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Mike Mullin for closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thank you all for joining us today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Quarter 4 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dawn and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche.
You may begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss Flowserve Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings which we made public last night through our press release and Form 10-K filing.
As usual participating on the call today are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Mullin our Director of Investor Relations.
Following our prepared comments this morning we will open the call up for your questions and more information will be given at that time.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that today's call is being webcast in coordination with an earnings slide presentation both of which are available through our website at www.flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
A replay will also be available on our website in approximately 2 hours following the end of today's live call.
This replay will remain available for a period of time over the coming weeks.
Finally I would like to emphasize that today's call and the associated earnings material contain forward-looking statements that are based upon information available to management as of February 22 2013.
These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond the company's control.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release the 10-K filing and today's slide presentation for more information.
Each of these documents can be found on Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
And please note except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to publicly update any of today's forward-looking statements.
At this time I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared remarks.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our fourth quarter results which provided a good finish to the year and culminated in our overall solid 2012 results as we managed through a somewhat challenging macro environment.
Throughout the year we focused internally on our operational efficiency to drive earnings growth while continuing to position the business to capture expected improvement in our end markets particularly the larger projects that we expect to move to the buy phase in the latter half of 2013.
Before highlighting the financial results I would like to mention how proud I am of the dedication and performance that our employees exhibited during 2012 as we drove our One Flowserve initiative.
Through their efforts we continued to grow our business with a disciplined approach while leveraging our broad capabilities and driving an expense management culture throughout the company.
In our industry bids bookings and backlog are the critical first steps to delivering successful results for our shareholders.
As 2012 progressed we enhanced our order execution process and increased our discipline and selectivity.
The result was not only bookings growth but also a higher quality backlog both of which came despite larger-than-expected currency headwinds and challenges posed by geopolitical uncertainties.
Broadly we saw solid activity across our major end markets with the exception of the power industry which softened.
Original equipment orders during the year primarily consisted of small to midsized projects as our experienced and broad sales organization concentrated on opportunities across all of our end markets which in general saw some growth despite macro uncertainties and declines in certain markets.
This smaller yet high-volume business that we earned is a strategic emphasis for us as it leverages our sales and engineering talent our global platform and aftermarket capabilities.
As for large projects we had only one large order booked in the third quarter but we remain encouraged that pre-FEED and FEED work remains at high levels.
And we continue to expect final approval of certain large projects planned in North America and other regions to occur in the second half of 2013.
From an aftermarket standpoint our end-user focus and strategic localization continued to yield positive results in 2012 producing record aftermarket bookings exceeding $1.9 billion.
A great example of our aftermarket strategy at work was a Dow Benelux 5-year service agreement that we signed in the third quarter.
We will continue to target these types of arrangements as our expertise is well-suited for customers who increasingly are looking for better alternatives in maintaining and optimizing their equipment.
By booking quality work and with improved execution full year earnings per share were $8.51 up over 11% versus prior year despite significant currency headwinds.
This delivered on our long-term goal of leveraging mid-single digit revenue growth into double-digit earnings growth.
Our improving execution and operational excellence also resulted in operating margin expansion of 50 basis points keeping us on track for our previously announced margin target of 15% to 16% by the end of 2014.
Key to this progress was IPD's impressive margin improvement of 320 basis points as its realigned operations continued to gain traction.
The financial achievements in 2012 were due in large part to an internal focus as we leveraged our One Flowserve initiative to drive operational excellence across our business units.
While opportunity remains I am pleased with our progress on key initiatives such as on-time delivery working capital management reduced cost of quality and low-cost sourcing.
We believe the internal progress we made this year also strengthens our ability to execute on potential inorganic growth.
Our strategy is to target select bolt-on acquisition prospects in technologies and markets that complement our expanding portfolio and geographic reach.
As we evaluate these prospects we target opportunities where we can leverage our worldwide sales force aftermarket capabilities and global platform to grow the business at a greater pace and enable pull-through of additional products.
In addition to our operational excellence improvements we also executed on our capital structure strategies to increase the efficiency of our balance sheet return value to our shareholders and position the business for profitable growth.
During 2012 Flowserve returned nearly $850 million to our shareholders through share buybacks and dividends.
We maintained a disciplined capital deployment process which also included further investment in our aftermarket platform with 4 new QRCs as well as localized manufacturing capacity in Brazil China and India.
As we enter 2013 we expect to build on the progress already made on our One Flowserve initiative and capitalize on forecasted modest improvement in growth rates in certain regions of the globe in the latter half of the year.
While some uncertainty continues we are anticipating some modest improvement in the U.S.
particularly in the second half of the year; stability in the European markets although at low historic levels; and opportunities in the developing regions where we have invested in additional capacity.
Turning to earnings expectations for 2013.
We provided guidance in January outlining our plans for double-digit EPS growth again.
Mike will cover it in greater detail.
But I would like to highlight that similar to last year we expect our earnings to reflect traditional seasonality and thus be back-end weighted.
Finally I would like to share why I'm encouraged as we begin 2013.
I'm confident in our ability to continue building upon the momentum achieved over the last several years.
As you may recall we began 2010 by integrating our front end combining pumps and seals realigning capabilities filling some key product gaps and localizing to further capitalize on long-term opportunities in emerging regions.
This last year was one of more internal focus as we drove our One Flowserve initiative to improve our operating platform and pursue cost leverage.
With anticipated improvement in certain of our end markets and continued operational improvements we expect to profitably grow our business particularly our valuable aftermarket franchise and remain committed on creating long-term value for our shareholders.
With these factors in mind yesterday we announced that our board has approved a 16.7% increase to our quarterly dividend a replenished stock repurchase plan of $750 million and a 3-for-1 stock split subject to shareholder action.
Let me at this point turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Before reviewing our markets and operations I would like to expand on Mark's comments regarding the progress of our One Flowserve initiative and the leadership structure put in place early last year.
First I'm very proud of the operating leaders and their execution of key initiatives to drive operational excellence and cost management throughout our divisions.
As a team they have leveraged best practices across our platforms improving functional performance in a number of areas including order and sales execution on-time delivery and low-cost sourcing to just mention a few.
We also continued to develop our CIP platform targeting quality and process improvements reduced cycle time and lower costs.
Approximately 1 700 CIP trained are certified green black belt and master black belts are currently deployed throughout the company to drive the CIP culture we have consistently invested in for years and they are providing a solid return on that investment.
Additionally we continue to invest in our associates and have enhanced our organizational capabilities through training leadership development cross-business segment and functional development assignments as we look to institutionalize our succession planning leadership competencies and performance management processes to ensure a sustainable business model.
Turning to the year I am pleased with the progress we have made operationally.
Consolidated operating margin improved sequentially compared to 2011 driven by the improvements in IPD and FCD.
We expect to build on the progress we have made in IPD as we continue to target operating margins of 14% to 15% for the division by the end of 2015.
As many of you know EPD operating margins were challenged during 2012 both for the full year and fourth quarter as we continued to ship lower-margin legacy backlog that was booked in the very competitive 2010 and early 2011 timeframe.
As we have highlighted since the company has continued to improve the quality of our backlog.
Further we expect margins to improve for EPD in 2013 as the year progresses and the impact of higher-margin backlog shipping is recognized.
Let me now turn to our markets and outlook.
Overall bookings for the year increased year-over-year about 5.5% on a constant currency basis.
Once again another year of strong aftermarket performance and solid levels of small to midsized projects were the key to this growth.
Considering we only booked one large project order during 2012 which was for offshore equipment in Latin America we're very pleased with the total amount of original equipment bookings.
Opportunities across our markets were mixed again demonstrating the value of Flowserve's diversified business model as stronger activity in the oil and gas chemical and general industries more than offset the ongoing softness in the power markets.
We benefited regionally as well with strength in the Americas and Asia Pacific offsetting the Middle East and Europe.
Looking now at the fourth quarter consolidated bookings declined over the comparable 2011 period by about 5.6%.
As Mark mentioned I believe this is more of a timing issue and doesn't change our opportunities ahead.
On the OE front there are a number of reasons some of the large projects we have been following in North America and around the world have taken additional time coming to market.
There's been some macro uncertainty that has slowed growth but I believe the primary reason is just that the large projects take longer for the E&amp;Cs and the end-user to reach agreement.
And they never seem to move as quickly as first indicated.
It's just the nature of the business.
However the levels of FEED and pre-FEED work outstanding remain elevated which is a good leading indicator for our business as we continue to believe final investment decisions will occur in the second half of 2013 for many of these projects.
Turning to the fourth quarter aftermarket.
North American activity was delayed in the fourth quarter as refineries temporarily deferred maintenance to capitalize on current strong margins while maintaining the high utilization rates.
While it affected the quarter there are some positive takeaways.
Maintenance can only be deferred temporarily so it too will come and running at higher utilization accelerates the need for future aftermarket work.
So again fourth quarter bookings overall were much more a matter of timing issue than a change in our business.
So in short we remain optimistic in our diverse end markets and the benefits they provide.
Saudi Arabia China Brazil and India will continue driving investments in new refinery projects.
The growing shale and tar sands products require pipeline projects in North America to transport the expanded production to refineries.
Certain potential LNG projects in our industry are experiencing increased development costs which may cause some reevaluation of the size scope or timing of that activity.
New chemical construction continues primarily in the Middle East and China while ethylene projects in the U.S.
are moving forward on the tailwind of low-cost natural gas and available reserves.
We believe refining petrochemical and chemical plants will continue vertical integration due to the proximity of the feedstock and the desire of customers to keep more of the total margin in-country.
This is the development in countries like Saudi Arabia the U.A.E.
Kuwait and Russia.
In power fossil activity at this time is primarily located in China India and Russia particularly on the supercritical side driven by the need for reduced emissions and efficiency increases.
In new capacity nuclear power opportunities are mainly occurring in China India Russia and Eastern Europe while the upgrades and re-rates continue in our developed regions due to the strong economics these projects provide.
Natural gas reserves and environmental policies have created additional opportunities for combined cycle power plants particularly in the developed regions like the U.S.
Finally solar thermal remains a relatively small but rapidly growing market.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Mark and Tom provided an overview of some of our accomplishments in 2012 and outlook for 2013.
I will provide some additional detail on our consolidated results update you on the progress we are making in the area of cash flow improvement and then provide some color on our 2013 guidance.
In spite of the headwinds Tom outlined we closed out the year with a solid fourth quarter shipping a fourth quarter record of $1.3 billion and growing revenue by 6.5% on a constant currency basis.
We were pleased with our full year revenue growth of 5.3% given the impact of the strong dollar for most of the year.
Our growth was in line with the original 5% to 7% guidance despite the significantly higher-than-expected currency headwinds.
Full year gross margin was down 30 basis points to 33.3% impacted by shipments from the remaining legacy backlog.
We shipped about $290 million of this low-margin work during 2012 including about $80 million or 6% of sales in the fourth quarter.
While we originally expected to ship most of these projects in 2012 we ended the year with a little less than $90 million remaining of this work due primarily to supply chain and customer delays which is not uncommon.
However we expect the margin impact in 2013 to be down significantly from 2012 levels as we don't expect to ship more than half of this quarter's level in any period during 2013.
Fourth quarter gross margin improved 50 basis points from the prior year to 33.7% as operating improvements and a stronger aftermarket more than offset the impact of the legacy backlog shipments.
Turning to SG&amp;A it fell as a percentage of sales by 90 basis points to 19.4% despite an increase of approximately $17 million in variable incentive compensation as our focus on cost control yielded solid results.
Opportunities remain and as such this area will continue to receive significant attention as we work to achieve our goal of an SG&amp;A percentage of 18% over the next few years.
With the 50-basis-point improvement in operating margins in 2012 we remain on course to achieve our targeted improvement of 150 to 250 basis points by 2014 from the 2011 trough of 13.7%.
I am sure many of you are pleased like we were to see only a negligible impact of currency in other income in the fourth quarter.
However for the full year we ended up with approximately $0.85 of headwind well above our original guidance of $0.50.
Finally our fourth quarter tax rate was 25.2% slightly below our guidance of 26% and the full year rate of 26.3%.
While 2012 reflected the benefits of favorable resolutions of tax items we expect to return to a more normalized tax rate of 30% in 2013.
Turning to cash flows.
We finished the year strong as is typical with the seasonality of our business.
We generated $394 million in operating cash flows in Q4 bringing our full year cash flow from operations to $517 million.
While I am pleased with the cash flow generation for the year and the quarter we continue our focus on this area until we achieve our goal of consistently generating free cash flow near our net income level.
Our 2012 CapEx was about $136 million well north of our rate of depreciation as we continued to invest in the long-term growth of the business.
Finally we executed on our strategy to efficiently deploy the balance sheet and return value to our shareholders as we targeted a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1x to 2x.
We returned nearly $850 million to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases during the year.
In addition we presented a comprehensive overview of our strategy to the rating agencies and received investment-grade ratings from each.
We then took advantage of attractive debt markets refinancing and increasing capacity on our senior credit facility and issuing $500 million of 10-year public notes.
Turning to our cash utilization slide we have a historical look at how we have deployed capital over the last 7 years.
We have taken a disciplined approach to evaluating and deploying cash and will continue to do so when we discuss our expected cash utilization in 2013 later in the presentation.
Turning to working capital.
We saw a sequential improvement in the fourth quarter with progress reducing DSO to 75 days at year end from the 85 days at the end of the third quarter.
However work remains to drive this into the mid-60s as we've indicated and we remain committed to getting there.
We also made progress on inventory reducing our percent of past-due backlog by 160 basis points.
Again I believe our inventory turn goal of 4x to 4.5x is achievable and would like to highlight a few of the initiatives that support my optimism.
CIP black belts are deployed across the business to evaluate and improve our processes.
Our dispute management process is being refined to resolve issues faster.
Working capital leadership is developing in our emerging regions.
From an inventory standpoint we are working with our supply chain to better align timing of delivery with production needs.
I'm confident we are taking the necessary steps to achieve our working capital goals and look forward to continued progress in 2013.
Moving to our 2013 outlook and EPS guidance.
We will continue to execute on our strategy of efficiently deploying capital including execution of our newly replenished authorized share repurchase plan of $750 million.
Before the replenishment we had spent about $100 million year-to-date in 2013.
And we expect to repurchase shares of roughly $280 million to $300 million in total in the first half of 2013 effectively completing the $1 billion share repurchase plan begun in 2012.
Following this investment we intend to return to our stated 40% to 50% of net earnings payout policy over the next few years.
The board also approved a 16.7% increase in our quarterly per share dividend the sixth consecutive annual increase and third consecutive double-digit increase.
Additionally a 3-for-1 stock split was approved subject to shareholders’ approval of a request for additional authorized shares under our charter.
We believe with these actions combined with our drive to grow the top line organically and potential strategic bolt-ons Flowserve will provide solid results to our shareholders over time.
This year we expect to invest $120 million to $130 million in capital expenditures to continue profitably growing the business organically and further increase our capabilities around the world.
Finally we are reaffirming our 2013 EPS guidance of $9.60 to $10.60 which we originally issued several weeks ago.
Similar to the last few years we expect earnings to be second-half weighted.
The first quarter will be a particularly challenging year-over-year comp given the onetime gain of $10 million recognized on the sale of our former Rio facility in the first quarter of last year a higher tax rate and the impact of the recently announced Venezuela bolivar devaluation.
We estimate the devaluation will result in a charge of approximately $3 million in the 2013 first quarter with no immediate tax benefit or roughly a $0.07 EPS impact.
This is the second devaluation of the Venezuela bolivar in the last 3 years.
And while doing business in this country has its challenges the region remains an important and profitable market in our strategy of targeting diverse geographies.
As such we continue to expect our presence here.
Lastly I'd like to remind you that we will be hosting our Analyst Day in New York City on March 20 and look forward to seeing many of you there.
Please reach out to Mike or Jay if you're interested in attending and haven't received an invitation by late next week.
As always we value time with the financial community and our shareholders and look forward to several opportunities throughout the year to spend time together.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Operator we have now concluded this morning's prepared remarks.
If you are ready we would now like to begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kevin Maczka from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start just asking a general question about your conviction in your top line guidance mid-single digits given that bookings and backlog were relatively flat in the year and bookings of course trailed off in Q4.
What is it that accelerates as we go into the year that would get us to that level? Well I mean a couple of things.
When you look at 2012 bookings one thing to consider.
The impact we saw was one around our selectivity to drive really value to the company and our shareholders.
And also you saw somewhat of a decline in Europe during the course of the year.
So as we mentioned in our comments that selectivity has really been in place since the first quarter of last year so we're starting to lap that.
Right? That had a year-over-year impact as you look back to 2011.
And also what we do see in Europe is stability although at low levels and so we don't expect a headwind from Europe and then some signs of encouragement in the U.S.
economy in the latter half of the year and then just the other markets.
So as we look out in the course of this year we were dealt some headwinds some at our selection around selectivity.
But again that improves the margin profile in some end markets that we participate that have either stabilized or we see some improvement.
So as we -- in a lot of our business we talked about the aftermarket which did grow steadily despite those things that I talked about and our smaller run rate business which we should benefit from that as very very good business.
I think the issue that it comes down to is the timing of these projects.
We do spend a lot of time talking about these projects.
But keep in mind that's about 20% of our business.
And we are encouraged to see the FEED work and the pre-FEED work and hope to see them materialize towards the end of the year.
But again that's 20% of our business.
It tends to be very competitively bid.
When you look at our margin profile what those tend to contribute to is fixed-cost absorption.
But it's really the aftermarket and the run rate business that drives our gross margins.
So I think as we look out we think we've absorbed some of the things that were chosen on our part and also market-related that we think have certainly abated.
We also have proven that we can grow our aftermarket business which we've done in just about all types of markets over the last couple of years focused on our run rate business.
The improved execution that we've been driving through does bring more orders in because when you take better care of your customers they respond better to you.
Those are all the things that form the foundation of our anticipated revenue growth this year.
Yes.
I mean Kevin I'd note -- I mean as Mark indicated aftermarket is 41% of our revenue base and you saw about $100 million improvement in that business year-over-year.
So we talk about this $2 billion revenue franchise we have in that business and it's really right there in front of us.
So that's a key to that growth is the continuing to get good growth from the -- from that aftermarket business.
And I would also add in there Kevin just to reiterate maybe on some specifics.
I mean the pipeline business in North America is increasing and that's driven a lot by the natural gas prices and the liquids that most of the players are after.
We got good growth in the chemical business and we continue to see that going forward particularly in North America going forward because of the feedstock.
We also have the Middle East driving the chemical business as they diversify going forward.
We do see the larger projects towards the back half of 2013.
And as Mark indicated that's based on the FEED and pre-FEED activity that we've seen so far.
I would say the combined cycle power plants across the world are seeing an increase as a result of the natural gas price in the shift there.
And I would say in Q4 the high utilization rates as I mentioned created an opportunity for the aftermarket business going forward on the refineries in the U.S.
And 2 other businesses the desal business was a little bit lower in 2012 certainly at the beginning of the year when we see an increase in that particularly in the Middle East.
Overall in the solar business even though that's dependent upon the government subsidies around the world we are seeing interest in that again again in the Middle East.
So there are some good favorable signs in terms of going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it very helpful.
And if I could just ask one more.
Can you comment on the EPD margin a little bit more? I know the comp was difficult but it wasn't entirely clear to me why that margin was down year-over-year with the aftermarket mix actually increasing.
And I know you had some bad legacy backlog still remaining there but you had that in the prior year as well maybe even more in the prior year.
Well if you look in the prior year in 2011 believe it or not EPD still benefited.
There was some benefit from the '07 '08 time period.
I mean as you look at our business we don't tend to cycle as quickly as other industrials.
In our business we saw the full impact of the decline in terms of the pricing environment going into booking and the competitive environment going to bookings in 2010 and the early part of 2011.
So some of the effects of '08 in projects that were in bid phase in '09 were still coming through in EPD in the early part of 2011.
And in fact what you saw you saw their margins tend to trend down during the course of '11 and then reverse that trend to a certain degree in 2012.
I think the other aspect of that is there was certainly the legacy backlog that was weighing in there and it was -- that legacy backlog again some of this is -- are good projects that were very competitive in '10 and '11 and that are going to yield aftermarket.
But what EPD saw was a lot of their big projects were those legacy type in 2012 and they didn't get to see any of the projects from the '08 era kind of carry through.
So we're not certainly concerned about their margins.
The other thing you saw in the SG&amp;A line is we did invest in the business in the sales organization in the aftermarket side.
So that's really the EPD story.
We -- it will tend to lag what's going on.
But if you look relative to some of its peers very good margins in the business and certainly well positioned to drive incremental aftermarket and also to take advantage of some of these projects that are coming online.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping that you guys and particularly Tom could kind of characterize what you're seeing really today right now.
I know you talk a lot about the FEED and the pre-FEED and what have you.
The bookings declined on the OE side I don't think that was a shocker.
But I'm just kind of wondering what the tone of OE bookings are right now because we've talked about the FEED and the pre-FEED stuff in it.
It just seems to keep getting pushed back a little bit.
And what gives you the confidence Tom particularly that you think that this is going to really start to come through in the coming quarters and right through to your bookings line? Yes if I can just put it in context and just look at the full year first in context I mean if you look at oil and gas the oil and gas for the full year was up.
Chemical was up.
General industries were up.
The only industry that was really down for the full year was the power business.
On the oil and gas we indicated that a lot of -- even though it was up a lot of the large projects still were not coming through relative to the EPCs.
And we see a lot of that FEED and pre-FEED work as a precursor to the EPCs getting into the buy phase.
And I also think that you've seen that in some of the EPCs that have recently gone through some of their investor calls.
They've talked a lot about the FEED and pre-FEED work being up.
If you look at the regions again what gives me some confidence going forward the North America region was up for the full year.
We still have a lot of pipeline activity going on.
The natural gas situation is I think creating a lot of opportunities both on the chemical and the power side.
So that looks -- that to me looks positive.
And we're also seeing that trend elsewhere around the world in general in terms of natural gas as well as basic liquids.
Asia Pacific was also up for the full year.
Latin America was up for the full year.
I mean we all expected Europe to have a tough year and it did.
Europe was down.
But I think we're seeing some basic I would say stabilization not a consistent yet stabilization in Europe but a basic stabilization.
We're seeing some of our quicker-turn businesses while they're not at the pre-2012 levels I would say they're getting stabilized in that area.
The Middle East was down but I think we've talked about that in terms of large projects.
So in the context of the full year we see a lot of regions and industries I think in good shape.
And when you look at the macro dynamics as we've indicated we had obviously the elections in the U.S.
You had things going on in China which have now I think sorted themselves out in terms of the nuclear business.
The first nuclear power plant has been granted construction since the moratorium has been lifted so that's good news there.
And we're seeing other activities on re-rates and upgrades on the nuclear side.
The Latin America had several things going on and we're starting to see some pickup there in offshore activity in Latin America.
So we're seeing some good I think basic signs.
The distributor business is a business that we look at Q4.
The distributor business in the FCD business was up both in Q4 and the full year.
And that's one of the leading kind of indicators for us overall in the business.
So Scott just a point of reference here.
When we talked in early 2009 when folks were very concerned that it was going to drop precipitously we said we see these projects and they're going to move forward and they did.
So we have the experience to know when you get to this level of investment the pre-FEED and FEED and you understand what's underlying these projects and their stories around the world.
In Kuwait they need clean fuels.
In Brazil they need to monetize the reserves that they've acquired.
They've just had a lot of projects that they had to digest them.
We know these things are going to move forward.
From my standpoint and I talk to customers and one of the things that's typically at the first part of the discussion are the projects they're going to move forward with.
But keep in mind whether it comes in Q -- from our perspective or theirs Q3 of 2012 Q3 of 2013 Q2 it doesn't matter necessarily from their perspective.
We've been following some of these projects for years but we do know they need to come online.
I think the other thing to the point earlier was that we do -- we tend to spend about 80% of our time talking about 20% of our business which are these big projects.
Focusing on that 80% the aftermarket business which has grown; the run rate business which we've seen grown as we grow our presence as we continue to execute.
I mean one of the things we saw was good improvement in IPD.
That gives us confidence as well.
So as we're sitting here right now we see a Europe which is at low levels.
There's no guarantee it couldn't get worse but it's at historic low levels from our business.
And you've seen the impact over the last couple of quarters of the uncertainty in the United States around the political environment and what happened in China as well.
So I think a lot of that is what gives us from where we are right now.
And what we're seeing now is obviously we have sequester coming up.
And so there's still some uncertainty and you still -- if you talk to CEOs and you listen to their conference calls they're waiting to see what happens.
But for the most part we know there is demand for energy.
There is demand for energy infrastructure.
We know the refineries are running flat out.
They need support.
So that's what gives us confidence.
It's very much on the ground and communications as well with customers.
Inc.</strong> Okay that helps me greatly.
So if we were to look at though because you were both -- we're all talking about bookings here so -- and those bookings kind of start to roll through in the second half of this year and on into '14.
Would it be fair to say that whereas 2012 was a year that was kind of above your targeted organic sales growth and margins generally flattish that 2013 because the bookings were more selective and what have you kind of first 2 3 quarters maybe the organic is maybe a little bit more muted and making essentially 2013 more of a margin-driven earnings and then kind of things go back to top line back in '14.
Is that a reasonable sketch? That's well put Scott.
I mean I think the discussion is not only about bookings but quality of bookings.
And the discussion is also how we take those higher-quality bookings and put them through our facilities and this is from order intake to cash flow.
So we're working on the whole value stream.
Now that doesn't suggest in any way that we're giving up top line growth because we absolutely didn't in aftermarket.
We want to continue -- I mean those are good rates of growth for the aftermarket business.
We want to continue to do it on the run rate.
But I think what we'll start to see during the course of this year is the benefits of the One Flowserve initiative the benefits of the selectivity that we've talked about and some of the focus the benefits of the improvement in IPD.
I think when we were sitting here a year a year-plus ago I said with IPD it's a little frustrating.
It's taken longer to get it started.
But clearly we've gotten some very good traction on that and I think we can start to approach our objectives.
So that is a good way of putting it.
But what I don't want to leave on the table in this discussion is the fact that we are absolutely focused on growing our top line.
But we will continue to do it selective.
We could have grown it even in the fourth quarter at higher levels without selectivity.
We just don't think that's necessary now like we did in 2010 and early -- in the first half of 2011 to load our factories.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think I'll start with Tom Pajonas.
Can you give us some more color around on-time delivery working capital management reduced cost of quality and low-cost sourcing that you've quoted as improving? Perhaps some numbers around on-time delivery or some examples? So just some color about the effect that that's having.
I mean if you look at margins there's 2 or 3 things that we constantly work on and that's also part of the overall One Flowserve initiative and the customer focus initiative.
And it's really quality and on-time delivery.
We've made I would say significant and good progress across our businesses in terms of on-time delivery.
And again our -- that has a lot to do with not only cycle time but this meeting the commitments.
And it also has to do with throughput in the operation which helps out on the working capital.
So we've improved on that over 2011 and we'll continue to work on that.
Relative to COPQ which is the cost of poor quality where we look at warranty we look at rework we look at liquidated damages and other things pertaining to the execution that is the second core of our business along with the overall scrap in as well as supplier cost of poor quality.
And we have metrics set up across all of our businesses.
We continue and have made progress from '11 to '12 in that particular area and we're going to continue to drive that forward over the next 2 to 3 years.
So on-time delivery COPQ are 2 key indicators that not only help with our overall customer focus initiative they basically help with the throughput through the entire operation and allow us to execute a better overall in the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are there any kind of numbers you could put around like the improvement in on-time delivery? I know COPQ might be a little harder to quantify for us but has on-time delivery gone from 94 to 96 or...
Yes I want to kind of stay away from giving specifics because obviously there's some competitive numbers in there.
But I would say somewhere north -- certainly somewhere north of 90% is where we're targeting.
And obviously we want our on-time delivery to be 100% if we can just like the way we look at safety.
But we're driving it through these -- the entire supply chain and you just need to know that we know where our suppliers are.
We know who the good suppliers are.
As we go into countries and we do low-cost sourcing we spend a lot of time on the deliveries of those suppliers through the supply chain through our engineering through bill of material generation through our manufacturing facilities.
We know where the pinch points are and we look at the cycle time.
And those 2 go in unison.
The lead times as well as the on-time delivery will always be again drivers for us as we move forward.
Nathan we still have room for improvement though.
I mean that should come out in this discussion is that we're still working on improving our on-time delivery.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just get one in on the M&amp;A environment.
You seem to be talking a little more constructively about the possibility of getting deals done.
Can you comment on what the pipeline is like? I know prices out in the market seem to be pretty steep at the moment.
And how you're thinking about that? Well I mean I'll start with the second part of the question.
In terms of price we think about returns to our shareholders.
And so what can we realize in terms of the value? How quickly can we generate the cash flow? It's really an IRR.
So if you -- if there's a business you can't realize a lot of benefits and synergies out of then that's going to command typically a lower price than one that fits right in and you can leverage up across your sales organization.
But I think what you're seeing is we're sticking to what we talked about in terms of a bolt-on strategy or a business and that really goes to good strategic fit but also reasonable integration risk as well.
And we were very focused internally last year.
Having said that if we would have seen an opportunity -- a bolt-on opportunity that could have delivered good value to our shareholders we would have done it.
We just didn't at that point in time.
And the pipeline continues.
You'll know -- you typically often see the big ones but those tend to be less bolt-ons because they're out in the markets than anything else.
But we're very focused on making sure we keep certainly a reasonable pipeline of them like we did in Lawrence.
That's been a very good acquisition for us.
We've been able to integrate that very well and really leverage that business tremendously.
So we'll continue to do that.
I think the one thing though is we feel sitting here this year versus last year and even the year before that we have a better platform to load whatever inorganic opportunity we do find onto.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Just first on I guess aftermarket so just kind of the outlook for 2013.
Maybe you could talk about how much of the growth you're expecting is just from general market growth versus actual share gains? And maybe could you just give us a sense of how penetrated you think you actually are on the customer base and where it could go? On the aftermarket side? LLC</strong> Yes.
There's still plenty of opportunity on the customer side.
I think what you've seen in the growth over the last couple of years are the benefit of our QRCs and our sales network and some of our ISG strategies have taken hold as well.
Now the Dow Benelux example is a good one where we basically took the business for the lack of a better term from our customer and took over the service.
There's still plenty of opportunities like those out there.
And so as we look forward there is -- I think there is an element as Tom talked about around deferred maintenance particularly what you saw in U.S.
refineries.
That's going to represent an opportunity.
Consistently as we get through -- even in the power industry we saw a good aftermarket business.
But as they go through and make decisions around what type of feedstock they're going to use to generate power if it's going to be combined cycle in many areas that's going to be newbuild and that will feed into our OBD business.
But if they're going to continue with the fossil oftentimes those things are -- or need to be upgraded and re-rated same thing on the nuclear side as well.
I mean the nuclear occurrence was almost 2 years ago and you're just starting to see the world start to emerge from that.
But the fact is those facilities need to be kept up and maintained.
So I think there's typically a story around that.
I also think that we get more flags on the ground in some of the strategic regions as I've talked to you before.
We would like to see a mature aftermarket delivery capability like we have in the Gulf Coast region in the United States and other parts of the world.
We've continued to be focused on that.
And so that's going to represent growth opportunity as well.
So I think there's -- most of the growth that you've seen has really been around our intentional strategies that we'll continue to execute on.
LLC</strong> Would you be able to maybe quantify of the outlook you have for '13 how much of that growth is being driven by the assumption that you get more penetration Mark? I think -- I mean as we look at 2013 in general we think we're going to -- we expect to continue to execute on our aftermarket business and our run rate business.
And to a certain degree we see some of these projects coming in in the latter half of the year.
And so I think if you kind of break it down no we're not going to give bookings guidance certainly within the aftermarket run rate business or anything like that but I think that's a general tone as to what we see.
And it certainly supports what we talked about in terms of anticipated growth.
You've seen good consistent growth in the aftermarket business even despite currency headwinds.
Sorry I would just add to what Mark is saying just some items.
A lot of coal to gas conversions taking place pipeline upgrades you have the nuclear re-rates and upgrades as Mark has mentioned.
We are seeing in China India in Russia this I would say environmental issues coming to the surface which may mean changes to the existing plants which generally translates into some aftermarket work there.
And we have continued to add quick response centers in the -- over the world through 2012.
We've added one in Russia and Madagascar India as well as in China.
LLC</strong> And if I may just actually one more.
So just on the other 20% of the business I know we focused in on a lot.
But I'm just curious so of the opportunities that you guys have so obviously a lot of petchem being discussed LNG in the U.S.
and some select projects abroad upstream oil and gas refining Middle East South America how would you rank these projects as far as consumers of actual pumps and valves? Do some consume more than others? Does one segment offer a bigger opportunity relative to the other set? And really even on the aftermarket do some of these offer more aftermarket tail than others? If you could address that that would be great.
Yes.
I mean typically oil and gas chemical offer a lot of aftermarket opportunity just because of the types of materials that are going through it.
The water industry tends to be less burdened with aftermarket because it tends to be lower RPM and you don't have a caustic material that's going through it.
So I think that's one thing.
But as we look at the opportunities in terms of OE the 20% of the business overall obviously a big petrochemical facility chemical facility refinery have a substantial amount of our products on them.
And it depends on the size and scope and the barrels per day that they're going to put out.
And even if you look across the power industry in terms of the availability the spectrum kind of goes from combined cycle.
It does have our products but not as much all the way over to the nuclear side where they tend to be certainly higher priced and much more critical.
So think about the critical and the pressure in terms of the application and the size of the facility and that gives you an idea.
And so as you look at -- what we like is we like infrastructure that's permanent.
So a pipeline is permanent.
A refinery is permanent unless they shut it down.
Oftentimes upstream production facilities can certainly move around as you see with frac-ing pumps.
But when we look at certainly those opportunities out there there are plenty of downstream opportunities around the world in the Middle East.
I mentioned earlier in Kuwait they need to go through a rebuild a newbuild and an upgrade effort.
And upgrades can be as extensive as a new facility or expansions can as well.
And also you see -- we see trends up in the power industry as well so -- and pipelines do as well.
Pipelines are fairly extensive.
They have quite a few pumps on them.
They have valves on them as well.
When you look at our Valbart valve that helps secure a pipeline.
These are critical applications.
They do have aftermarket that attaches to it.
So these can be substantial opportunities.
And what you're seeing even relative to 6 7 years ago is these facilities are getting bigger and more complex.
Our next question comes from Joe Radigan from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Mark your point on the project business is well taken.
But the commentary from the E&amp;C seems to be getting increasingly bullish around the oil and gas cycle particularly in North America.
And I would just be interested in your thoughts in terms of the duration of this upswing when it finally does materialize because there's some pretty lofty numbers I think being thrown out there as to how long a tail this is.
So I mean how are you guys looking at it? We tend -- when we tend to look at that opportunity I mean around 3 maybe up to -- extending out to 5 depending on how they stage out.
But when they -- certainly when they come back that's the way we look at the opportunity when these things come back around.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
And that's -- by the way that's how we're planning our business.
So when we get together on Analyst Day and when we looked even when we started talking 2 years ago that's how we think of our business.
It's a great question because that's how we have to think about our business.
Research Division</strong> And then several of the western E&amp;Cs are already talking about lining up resources for this upcoming cycle.
Maybe a 2-part question.
First is that starting to have the favorable impact on project pricing that you would expect as you start -- as you're quoting these projects kind of in the pre-FEED timeframe? And then how does that impact your ability to find and retain engineers in that sort of high-demand environment given that's part of the value add for you guys? Well that's -- let me take the second one.
That's a great question because if you drive in Houston you'll see billboards advertising for engineering and engineers.
So it is tied in.
I think we've talked about on these calls before I mean we've had a fairly -- a very intentional program around engineering recruitment engineering retention in our business.
We've taken a lot of our engineering capacity and put it in engineering centers in India and China so that we have that continuity and that really that leverage capability there.
So we've certainly been looking at the resources.
Going back to your prior question what you tend to see in our industry -- and the pricing was its roughest in 2010 and early 2011.
And then what you see in our industry is capacity starts to rationalize to a certain degree.
You saw a couple of transactions with some of our competitors where there was much more discipline in terms of the way they took the projects.
Then as the projects come online that will tend to drive incremental pricing.
And then as capacity becomes constrained our industry will tend to start using that pricing to rationalize their capacity like you saw really towards the tail end of the last market move in 2008.
But again if we see something like that again that will be fine and well although there was certainly a downside to that.
When we look at our planning we don't look and need or expect that type of environment to achieve our objectives.
Really what we want to do is make sure we've got an efficient platform that we're disciplined.
And then as we start to see price not only from the market but for our ability to execute we think that's very important because the other thing that can help with price is your ability to drive down cycle times in terms of manufacturing.
So we're trying to position ourselves different from where we were before to really start to capitalize on price before it just becomes a market capacity constraint issue.
So what you'll see is as these things start to come online it'll start to -- you'll start to see pricing improve beyond just the discipline that's come around.
And in terms of our preparedness we're always wanting to get better prepared but we certainly think we've got the capacity in place to take advantage of these opportunities over that period of time.
We'll stay focused on making sure we've got the personnel and the engineers in place to do that as well.
And Tom will stay continued focus to make sure that we drive better throughput as I mentioned on the question earlier improve on-time delivery do all those things that can help us capture as much of that as we can.
And then when that occurs and that is 20% of our business start to reap the benefits from aftermarket.
Yes and I would add.
I mean one thing that the engineering staff wants to see is they want to see you making investments in your business in terms of technology and we've done that in terms of research and technology.
So we keep things state-of-the-art in terms of that perspective.
And we also do a lot of investment in engineering systems database systems build materials 3D modeling.
And that also keeps us at the forefront of the technology which our engineers again they respond to.
Our next question comes from Jake Robinson (sic) [Chase Jacobson] from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> It's Chase Jacobson from William Blair.
Just wanted to follow up on the revenue questions.
So it sounds like you had pretty good conviction that you can hit the mid-single digit revenue growth target with aftermarkets and small- and medium-sized projects.
Does that mean that if some of the large projects come in in the back half of the year that there could be upside to that? Or do those projects really not contribute to revenue until some time next year? Yes Chase Mike.
Yes those are mainly 2014 revenues.
We'll see some bookings we think that will come to market in the second half of the year but those really don't come into meaningful revenues until '14 and '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on the cash flow.
Really strong free cash flow in the quarter.
Looking out through 2013 is that -- I mean I don't know I doubt the fourth quarter level is sustainable.
But is it going to go back to the normal seasonality where it's kind of lower in the first half and then picks up beginning in the second half? Or is there more room to go on things like inventory in the near term? Any clarity on that would be great.
Yes there is.
And let me just clarify on your previous question.
From that revenue we really see that revenues as '14.
We'll see the bookings in '13 but the revenue is really more '14-related.
No I think there is.
I mean we've still got more work to do on cash flows.
We've identified the targets and kind of announced publicly what those targets are.
But there's still work to do.
We've identified where we need to make improvements.
Most of those are process-related and procedure as well as changing culture in the organization.
We have Sid Panda on line from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The first question was regarding the DSOs and the inventory turns.
Where do you see slack in your operations right now that can help drive the improvement there? Well overall I mean we ended the year at 75 days DSO and I think around 3.2x turn and we've indicated our targets.
We want to drive that to the -- the DSO to the mid-upper 60s.
So that continues to be a multiyear process.
And so it's a marathon not a sprint at all.
But I'd say it's around the world.
It's a number of our operations.
And also again as I've indicated with Chase we've brought some consulting firms in last year middle of last year did a very detailed analysis across the globe and identified process and procedure changes we need to make.
And we're in the process of implementing those.
So I think the identification of it is kind of the easy part.
The more difficult and the long-term piece is actually implementing those changes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question was around bookings and in particular in FCD.
That has seen bookings going down for like 3 subsequent quarters now.
How should we think about booking trends in FCD in 2013 and the overall booking trends? Well I think as we'd talked about earlier I mean FCD has a high exposure to Europe.
So a lot of what you saw in terms of their book -- year-over-year bookings decline from 2011 to 2012 was the headwinds that you saw in Europe which we again expect to stabilize.
So if you look at '12 there were other things that were bringing bookings up in FCD.
It was just primarily offset by what you saw in Europe as well.
I think the other thing as we look out into 2013 we made the Valbart acquisition which has high exposure to oil and gas.
We've got that integrated and working the way we want it.
And so we expect to see opportunities in that as well.
So that's what gives us encouragement around the FCD business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So for 2013 I guess would it be fair to say that the bookings growth would be led by the Engineered Products or were the highest organically followed by IPD and then followed by Lawrence? Well and we don't want to break it down individually.
But what we're focused on is really driving growth in all of them and so -- I mean I think when we look at it we don't want to go certainly one by one.
Now EPD both the bookings growth will depend on the timing and the nature of those projects.
And to a certain degree it's revenues as well depending on when those projects come in because they do have percentage of completion.
So they could pick up some revenue.
But for the most part the run rate business tends to be shorter cycle.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just because of the way -- and this is the last question.
Just because of the way the FCD bookings were sort of down for that first 3 quarters would it be fair to say that for the mid-single digit growth in 2013 that would be the lowest contributor there the FCD segment? No.
Again we don't want to parse them out individually because keep in mind we do leverage across these divisions and these segments as well.
So they are participating on oil and gas projects along with EPD.
So no we certainly don't want to look at it that way.
Of course their bookings growth can be different because of either projects that came through from one period to the next.
I mean if you look in the compares in FCD they had a large nuclear project in 2011 about $50 million which is big that they didn't see in 2012.
And also they saw a fairly large oil and gas project in 2011 which was very competitive.
So I don't want to get into too much detail around each one of the segments.
But the point is is we're focused on driving growth and we've talked about the mid-single digit over on that growth business.
What that depends on is continuing to drive aftermarket growth focusing on the run rate business and to a certain degree seeing some of the benefits of these projects towards the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> One question.
Is there any particular part of your business that you feel as though at this time you don't have the adequate capacity given the end markets that you're seeing going forward? Or better yet the CapEx that you're sort of providing can you sort of break down where that's targeted? Yes the answer to your first question around products is we think we certainly have available capacity.
Now some of our facilities even at this day are full.
But we -- if you've -- we've talked about our lead products secondary product strategy.
We've been able to move a lot of that manufacturing and leveraging other facilities around the world.
So if you would have followed our business build 7 10 years ago it was pretty much -- it was fairly product-specific to a plant.
We've moved a lot of that over the last 3 or 4 years to be able to develop those capabilities in emerging parts of the world not only for low-cost manufacturing but those products are being used in the local markets.
So we do -- as I mentioned earlier we do feel like we have capacity and the ability to manage our capacity now and really with the opportunities we see over the next couple of years.
Second part of your question where our CapEx has gone a big part last year was in Brazil as we opened that facility and we continued to build in China to serve that local market and in India as well for products for that local market and to support our operations around the world.
We've invested in QRCs.
We've also invested some of that capital in R&amp;D and systems to really support growth.
So a lot of the CapEx has been growth.
And as Mike talked about we run 50 plus or minus on maintenance CapEx.
But also keep in mind some of that is updating some of our machinery.
And if you look at some machinery that it's replacing they tend to be highly manual like a manual lathe.
And there is -- the significance of that is it's labor-intensive.
It is actually subject to a lot of rework because it's -- there's human activity in terms of the precision of the machining.
And we've migrated a lot of this maintenance CapEx over to computerized machinery which is just that.
It has lower setup times.
So when we get into cycle times in our business we think about the setup times for castings.
It has lower setup times lower margin of error higher precision.
And so part of that maintenance CapEx is really to position us for the future as well.
So that's how we spend our CapEx.
Research Division</strong> Mark can you comment just a little bit -- I mean that's extremely helpful and I'm glad you went into the castings.
Can you go into pipeline the same way of how you were -- I mean we're all seeing the amount and the amount of backlog or the talks that we're hearing on the pipeline side.
You guys do have exposure on the pump and the valve size for pipes on both liquids and gas.
Are you set up appropriately that if this long-haul pipeline comes through and others do start flowing are you ready for that? That buildup that could be a real nice run rate for the next few years in pipeline.
Absolutely.
We're ready and looking forward to it.
As a matter of fact it's been happening so we've been participating in the last year on some of these pipeline opportunities.
We like the business.
As I made the comment earlier fixed infrastructure is good for us because if you think about the customer they have to optimize it because they can't move it.
And so -- and it's commissioned and it's there and it's permanent.
So where they need to spend their time once it's on the ground and running is how do I improve it? That's our aftermarket strategy.
If you look at equipment that can be moved to its next marginal use that's not as good on the aftermarket side.
So we like the pipelines because they don't move.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our allotted time.
I will now turn the call back to Jay Roueche for any closing remarks.
Thank you operator and thank you again to everyone for participating in today's call.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the various upcoming investor events and conferences.
I think a few people may have been left in queue.
And should you have any follow-up questions please don't hesitate to call Mike Mullin or myself.
And with that operator it concludes today's call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Q1 2013 Earnings Call.
My name is Dawn and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche.
You may begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you participating in our call to discuss the financial results of Flowserve Corporation for the first quarter of 2013 which we announced yesterday through our press release and Form 10-Q filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Mullin our Director of Investor Relations.
Following our prepared comments this morning we will open up the call for your questions and directions will be given at that time.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that today's call is being webcast and an earnings slide presentation is available both of which are accessible through our website at www.flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
An audio replay will also be available on our website in approximately 2 hours following the end of today's live call.
This replay and the slide presentation will remain on the website for a period of time over the coming weeks.
Finally please note that today's call and the associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements that are based upon information available to management as of April 25 2013.
These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond the company's control.
We encourage you to fully review our safe harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release and slide presentation as well as our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information.
Each of these documents can be found on Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
And please note except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to publicly update any of today's forward-looking statements.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with the operating and financial results for the first quarter.
This performance highlights our employees' continued dedication to discipline growth operational excellence and cost control which provided solid margins and produced earnings leveraged from all segments.
Together these factors enable us to deliver on our commitments to both customers and shareholders.
Earnings of $2.01 per share this quarter were solid and I am proud of the operating improvements we have made and continue to make which positions us to deliver on our full year targets.
First quarter bookings of approximately $1.2 billion were down slightly year-over-year reflecting a continued focus on run rate and aftermarket business.
We had strong sequential improvement as bookings improved by 9.9% despite the continuation of macro uncertainty in particular in Europe.
Our solid bookings demonstrate the benefit of our diverse end market and geographic exposures.
Similar to the last quarter the aftermarket business remained somewhat muted as some refiners continued to defer maintenance to keep their operations running to take advantage of current strong margins.
The original equipment business continued this quarter with smaller-sized projects and we continued to see the larger project activity progressing towards the final investment decision which we expect to begin in the latter half of 2013.
The solid margin performance this quarter from each division was largely the internal return generated on last year's internal focus in our One Flowserve initiative which leveraged process expertise across the business.
Tom will cover the operating improvement progress.
But in short this performance gives me confidence that our strategic focus on profitably growing the business while simultaneously controlling cost will continue to deliver long-term value for shareholders.
I have previously mentioned and can again assure you that opportunities remain available inside the company to continue growing and improving operations and we're eager to deliver them.
Overall I am encouraged by the long-term prospects of the aftermarket business as we continue to execute our end-user strategies.
We have typically delivered consistent growth in bookings and sales over several years.
The recurring nature stable growth and solid margin profile provide a solid foundation for Flowserve.
Looking at SG&amp;A adjusting for the discreet items we disclosed in yesterday's press release SG&amp;A dollars were essentially flat year-over-year and declined nicely as a percentage of sales.
While we are not forecasting flat SG&amp;A for the full year we do remain actively focused on controlling cost and fully intend to generate earnings leverage from this expense.
Looking briefly at segment performance.
EPD's gross margin improvement reflects our disciplined project acquisition process which has steadily improved the quality of backlog in this traditionally late cycle business.
IPD's operational excellence focus has delivered solid margin improvement with notable year-over-year gross margin improvement.
We remain committed to growing IPD's operating margins to 14% to 15% by 2015.
FCD's solid operating performance continued to demonstrate its consistency.
In this quarter it also delivered strong bookings and revenue growth.
FCD's results this quarter included some immediate gains from the Indian joint venture transactions as we continued to optimize our asset portfolio.
But the real value was strategic localization as we retained key valve products and facilities in the significant and growing market and sold nonstrategic assets.
Controlling our own destiny in this important market focused on the oil and gas business with solid growth opportunities ahead should benefit Flowserve's future.
Internal transactions are often as important as external ones.
And we will continue to look for opportunities to optimize the existing asset portfolio in addition to targeting technology and geographic additions through strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
I'm convinced that our operations are performing at an improving level that should allow us to meet or exceed customer expectations.
The foundation we've set with our internal improvements should position us well when the large project activity is expected to begin in the second half of this year particularly in North America.
Bottom line we remain confident in the medium to long-term prospects for energy infrastructure end markets.
As we look forward to the remainder of 2013 this quarter's performance is encouraging and highlights the improvements the operations team is making.
We still have significant opportunities within our core markets operations cost structure and existing global footprint.
Although we continue to experience some near-term uncertainty in certain markets we do expect to gain momentum this year as we remain confident in the long-term prospects for our business.
We built momentum in 2012 and are off to a better-than-expected start this year.
Our goal remains to deliver value to both our customers and shareholders.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark discussed the internal focus on operational improvements we made last year built momentum in the business and underscored my expectations for capturing additional opportunities for improvement during 2013.
Operationally the first quarter was solid as we continued to focus on the customer on-time delivery quality and supplier development.
Our One Flowserve initiatives have leveraged global competencies across our operating units in project management low-cost sourcing and information technology to name a few and opportunities for further improvement remain.
The progress we've seen in the gross and operating margins in EPD and IPD is encouraging as we've worked on increasing the efficiency of our factories and look to be well positioned for the latter cycle projects as they work through the bidding phase and near final investment decision.
We will maintain our discipline and selectivity in our project pursue teams and we expect to see continued improvement in the quality of our backlog.
And FCD it remains focused on top line growth delivering solid bookings and revenue growth in the first quarter while achieving high levels of operating performance.
Our strong team of black belts and green belts remains deployed throughout the organization to further drive efficiency and cost improvements.
SG&amp;A leverage remains a constant focus as evidenced by the reduction in SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue this quarter excluding AIL transaction cost of $1.7 million in 2013 and the net gain on the sale of our real assets of $10.4 million in 2012.
Let me now turn to our markets and outlook.
Overall we were pleased with the quarter's book-to-bill of 1.09.
As Mark mentioned we saw solid sequential bookings growth of 9.9%.
As expected small-to-midsized projects continue to support our OE bookings as we have yet to see the release of larger-sized OE projects.
We do see them progressing however as our work continued with the EMCs in our customers in helping progress these projects through the FEED to the bidding stage.
Aftermarket bookings grew nicely at 3.4% or 4% on a constant currency basis despite continued maintenance deferrals in some markets.
Opportunities across our markets were mixed as stronger activity in the general industries and water markets partially offset softness in the oil and gas power and chemical markets.
Regional strength in North and Latin America partially offset slower activity in Europe Asia Pacific and the Middle East/Africa.
Turning to our end markets.
Saudi Arabia China and India continued driving investments in new refinery projects.
Brazil is driving investments in offshore production while North America unconventional development continues to create pipeline and downstream opportunities.
New chemical construction continues primarily in the Middle East and China while ethylene and fertilizer projects in the U.S.
are moving forward on the tailwind of low-cost natural gas and available reserves.
China continues to invest in coal to gas and coal to liquid technologies as part of their strategic energy plans.
We believe refining petrochemical and chemical plants will continue vertical integration due to the proximity of the FEED stock and the desire of the customers to keep more of the total margin in country.
This is the development in countries like Saudi Arabia the U.A.E.
Kuwait and Russia.
Global power markets remain competitive and continued to be impacted by the slow economic growth and post-Fukushima effects.
Fossil activities primarily located in China India and Russia particularly on the supercritical side driven by the need for reduced emissions and efficiency increases.
New capacity nuclear power opportunities are mainly occurring in China India Russia and Eastern Europe while upgrades and rerates continue in our developed regions due to the strong economics these projects provide.
We expect China to release additional nuclear plants this year.
Natural gas reserves and environmental policies have created additional opportunities for combined cycle power plants particularly in developed regions like the U.S.
where older coal-fired plants continue to be shut down or converted to gas.
Finally solar thermal remains a relatively small but rapidly growing market.
As many of you know our water markets have been relatively flat over the last couple of years.
We delivered double-digit growth in our water bookings in the first quarter and see indications that some desalination projects are moving forward increasing our optimism for this market.
So in summary our solid first quarter start sets the foundation as we look to build momentum through the year and position the business to capitalize on opportunities we expect in the second half of the year.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Following Mark and Tom's operational overview of the first quarter and business outlook for the remainder of the year let me discuss in greater detail our financial results.
While we encountered $0.24 per share of currency headwind this quarter and experienced a less than a complete recovery in our markets as Tom outlined we did begin 2013 with a very solid first quarter.
Our sales of over $1.1 billion represented a 2% year-over-year increase or almost 3% on a constant currency basis and consisted of approximately 58% original equipment and 42% aftermarket essentially the same mix as last year's quarter.
I was particularly pleased that gross margin improved approximately 60 basis points to 34% as compared to last year's first quarter and an increase of 70 basis points sequentially.
This level is the highest we've obtained since the first quarter of 2011.
While we were impacted by some remaining legacy backlog shipments the margin improvement we delivered was aided by revenue flow through and is further validation of our project selection discipline operational improvements and ongoing aftermarket focus.
EPD's gross margin of 34.9% was the highest in 2 years and a sequential improvement of 130 basis points.
We are clearly pleased with this trend although we do expect it to be dampened somewhat in the 2013 second quarter as we expect an increased percentage of OE activity creating a mix shift.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
It's not an easy compare.
As reported SG&amp;A to sales increased as compared to last year's first quarter by 80 basis points to 21.4%.
However last year's $10.4 million gain on sale of operating assets lowered that period's SG&amp;A amount and approximately $1.7 million of JV-related transaction expenses increased the 2013 expense.
Excluding these items SG&amp;A dollars were flat and as a percentage of sales it improved year-over-year by 40 basis points.
Considering the Indian joint venture transaction occurred in March we expect about $2 million of integration and related cost to be recognized in the second quarter within the Flow Control segment.
As we indicated in our recent Analyst Day our long-term goal is to achieve recurring SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to be consistently in the 18% range.
We've made good progress annually over the last few years and the opportunities clearly remain.
We will continue to dedicate significant attention to this opportunity over the next few years.
Operating margins were exceptionally strong at 15.5%.
But clearly this level benefited from the net gains associated with the Indian joint venture transactions.
Excluding these transaction gains and expenses from both the 2012 and 2013 first quarter results operating margins for Q1 would have been 13.1% representing an 80 basis point improvement over the adjusted 2012 period.
A clear positive is that our recurring operating income improvement is being driven by the business as opposed to just cost control.
It means the improved gross margin we've recognized is also creating leverage further down the income statement.
Below operating income foreign currency had a negative impact of approximately $10.8 million.
It had an outsized EPS impact of roughly $0.18 per share as the Venezuela currency devaluation did not receive a tax benefit.
Other notable FX impacts came from the stronger peso and weaker yen on the respective local balance sheets.
While we do not have any FX impact in our original guidance the net gain on the Indian joint venture transaction made up for both of these below-the-line currency impact and the $0.06 experienced above the line.
Our tax rate for the 2013 first quarter also was outside our guidance range coming in at approximately 33%.
In addition to the after-tax impact on the Venezuela currency devaluation being the same as the below-the-line pretax amount we also had a substantial tax impact from the Indian joint venture gains.
Going forward we expect to return to a more normalized tax rate of 30% for the remaining quarters of 2013.
Turning to cash flows.
The first quarter seasonally tends to be a major usage of cash and that was the case again in 2013.
We used about $108 million in our operations during the quarter and another $212 million for share repurchases dividends capital expenditures and debt payments.
We did generate a positive cash inflow from the Indian joint venture transactions netting to approximately $36 million.
We also accessed our corporate revolver for working capital during the quarter and ended the quarter with about $150 million outstanding as it is certainly a cost-effective source of funds.
Similar to our earnings profile we fully expect this quarter to be the trough in cash flows for the year and anticipate a much stronger performance during the remainder of the year.
As we continue to discuss our focus on cash flows and working capital will remain a priority working towards our goal of consistently generating annual free cash flow near our net income level.
Executing on our strategy to efficiently deploy the balance sheet and return value to our shareholders will remain a priority.
As we previously discussed our targeted debt-to-EBITDA ratio is 1x to 2x.
During the quarter we continued to actively repurchase shares amounting to about $156 million.
We expect to effectively complete last year's $1 billion share repurchase program by the end of the second quarter and we then plan to reinstate our policy of annually returning 40% to 50% of our 2-year average net income to our owners through dividends and stock buybacks.
At quarter end with our recently replenished share repurchase authorization we had authority for about $687 million remaining under our current buyback program.
Turning to working capital.
We saw some improvement in the 2013 first quarter compared to the 2012 first quarter with the reduction in DSO by about a day to 87 days.
Inventory turns were essentially flat with the 2012 first quarter and our past-due backlog decreased in total and as a percentage of backlog.
Again seasonally these only modest improvements are not surprising and we still are very much focused on our working capital goal of mid-60s DSO and inventory turns of 4x to 4.5x.
We believe these targets are achievable with our continued effort.
As I discussed last quarter I'm confident that we are taking the necessary steps to achieve this level and we expect continued progress to occur in 2013.
Moving to our EPS guidance and outlook for the remainder of the year.
We are reaffirming our 2013 earnings guidance of $9.60 to $10.60 per share.
This guidance utilizes our reported earnings this quarter considering the unforecasted items largely offset each other.
We also continue to expect a mid-single-digit range of sales growth on a neutral FX basis and believe we are off to a solid start with the improvement we realized in the 2013 first quarter.
Turning to our spending priorities.
As I alluded to earlier we expect to spend about $150 million in share repurchases during the second quarter.
Importantly we are committed to investing in our business to deliver profitable growth and solid organic returns and still expect 2013 CapEx to be in the $120 million to $130 million range to further increase our worldwide capabilities.
We believe our capital allocation approach combined with the expected growth from our existing businesses as well as a potential for strategic bolt-ons will provide Flowserve shareholders with solid returns over time.
Other uses of cash we expect this year include pension contributions and scheduled debt repayments.
But even combined this amount is modest in comparison to the other priorities.
Returning quickly to our earnings guidance.
As I indicated in our last call we continue to expect earnings to be second-half weighted.
We saw it in the first quarter and continue to expect that our quarterly results will reflect traditional seasonality.
As you may have seen we recently filed our proxy statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Assuming shareholders vote to approve the request to increase our authorized share count I would expect that at our next conference call we will have implemented the planned 3-for-1 stock split with the per share metrics adjusted accordingly.
Lastly I'd like to thank all of you again who attended our Analyst Day in New York City in March.
For those of you who were unable to attend and have an interest the presentation is still available on our website.
In the weeks ahead we are planning a fairly active Investor Relations schedule.
We'll be in New York for investor meetings.
We have plans to host investors here as well in our offices and we are committed to a number of conferences over the next few months.
We very much value our time with the financial community and our shareholders and anticipate there will be several venues available to you in the weeks ahead.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Thank you Mike.
Dawn we have now concluded this morning's prepared remarks.
If you are ready we would now like to begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Charlie Brady from BMO Capital Markets.
Just on the commentary on the mix in second quarter.
I'm just trying to square that up.
The EPD had a pretty substantial shift towards aftermarket bookings in Q1 by about 900 bps which generally I'd assume would be a positive for margin.
But I'm trying to square that with your commentary on mix shift being negative to margin in Q2.
Well the -- I mean if you look first of all year-over-year in terms of the mix shift that can be and it was a handful of projects that were there last year in Q1 that may not have been there.
So I mean don't read too much into that.
Really the theme around EPD and the overall business is the underlying run rate business has seen steady growth including aftermarket.
Now to your question around the second quarter.
If you look historically Q2 and to a greater degree Q4 tend to be when a lot of our projects go out the door a lot of the OE.
These are some of the larger longer cycle.
So while aftermarket remains somewhat steady although you do see higher levels at the end of the year as many of our foreign customers try to get all that MRO aftermarket in before the end of the year.
Because keep in mind in Mexico in certain parts of the year they rebudget every year.
So there is a little bit of seasonality to that market.
But for the most part you see that kind of run through steadily.
What will change from quarter-to-quarter is going to be the number of projects that are shipped out.
And historically we've always seen that in Q4 a lot of projects go out the door.
What that means is in Q1 there's fewer projects that goes.
So it tends to shift back to more aftermarket mix and then tilt towards the OE side in the second quarter.
That help? Yes it does.
So we should expect Q3 this year do you think to be the highest margin quarter? I'm sorry what was your...
Should we expect Q3 then to be the highest margin quarter kind of given what your backlog looks like and kind of timing of shipments then? Yes I mean Charlie I don't want to start pegging margins quarter-to-quarter because literally that can change as to when a shipment goes from 1 quarter to the next.
That's really why it's tough to sit here and drill down margins quarter-by-quarter overall in our business.
And really it's better to look at rolling 3- 4-quarter trends.
But I think some of the themes around our margin first of all we were pleased with the way the margins came out in the first quarter this year.
And I think the most important message we want to convey is when you looked at operating margins over the last couple of years a lot of it has been a cost leverage story.
This time you're starting to see the operational improvements.
And that's what we're focused on in our business.
I mean you look at our revenue guidance for the year and you can see it's mid-single digit.
So a lot of the -- as we drive the earnings this year certainly there's a top line component to it.
But a lot of that is just driving improvement in our business which we'll really be able to leverage in the outgoing years as these projects start to come in as we grow our business as we start to capitalize on some of the markets like India now that we have really direct access to.
So think of it that way in terms of improving the business is what's driving the margin.
You're seeing it in the gross margin profile as well.
So as you kind of look through the year couple of things around margins is that the OE mix how that comes back and forth that will impact it.
That's okay right? It's still earnings overall in our business.
The improving business as we get additional traction on our operational excellence we will start to realize the value continued over our -- as our backlog our improving backlog over the course of the year comes through.
That's what's going to drive more margins.
We're going to focus on cost leverage as well.
And then in the out years we're going to start capitalizing on what was your good revenue opportunities as well.
And just on the industrial business it looks like the chemical end market for those guys was more positive than I would have thought.
Where are you seeing the strength in chemical on the industrial pumps? Tom? Yes I mean a lot of the chemical business obviously is taking place in the U.S.
driven by the low-cost natural gas.
And we're also seeing some good chemical business based on the Middle East product diversification and again because of the low cost on natural gas prices.
All right.
One more and I'll get off.
Can you just give what the actual share count was ending share count at the quarter rather than just the average for the quarter? Yes Mike? The actual share count at the end of the quarter was 47.9 million shares outstanding.
Our next question comes from Hamzah Mazari from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on the aftermarket business.
Aside from refining where else are you seeing deferred maintenance? And what's your internal expectation of when that gets released? And sticking with the aftermarket if you could talk about your ability to also service other rotating equipment aside from your core offering? Sure.
I mean that's -- going to the last one that's of course one of our strategies and why we like having the seal pump and auxiliary portfolio to go in and touch rotating equipment.
And what I mean by that is if you're a standalone seal company you're basically looking at the seal component in terms of repair.
If you're a pump company you're looking at basically the shaft the rotors the impellers in aspect to the pump.
We have multiple opportunities to go in and touch that piece of equipment and offer a broad service offering.
So that is definitely certainly one of our strategies is taking care of our equipment and going in and also taking care of other equipment as well.
When you look at some of the aftermarket trends currently and Tom called out we've seen this before where refining spreads merit just running them flat out.
And I think what we also saw before during that period of time is you can't do that forever.
So it's really going to be pent-up demand.
Where I think demand may take longer to come back is going to be in some of the upgrade and repair work in Europe.
And they are maintaining their equipment.
We've been in that business for a period of time.
But some of the ISG upgrade opportunities in Europe really depend more when the sentiment starts to improve there.
But for the most part we're pleased with the way we've been able to grow the business.
I'll go back to -- if you look at the net incremental installed base around the world in any given year our aftermarket growth is well above that.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just second question on just -- you talked about selective bidding.
And you spoke about that a few quarters ago as well.
Could you maybe comment on the competitive environment you're seeing out there on some of the long cycle and maybe also short-cycle work and how pricing is trending? And do you expect any significant pricing benefit once some of these large projects begin to materialize and some of the excess capacity gets absorbed? Yes I mean Hamzah let me just take it back a couple of years.
I mean this on the long cycle side if you recall this market turned down in 2009.
And during that period of time you saw a number of things occurred.
Recently in the press more around the Korean E&amp;C firms very aggressive in the Middle East in 2010 early 2011.
That impacted the market.
Some of the competitors which I think are now more in strategic hands impacted the market.
But the fact is that our markets our long-cycle and project markets declined in '09 and have not really firmed up to the levels that you saw in '06 '07 '08 yet.
We see that on the horizon.
What has happened is I think people have focused more and rationalized their capacity.
The competitors are in very good strategic hands.
A lot of the impact to the Korean contractors has worked through the system.
You're starting to see it in their P&amp;Ls right now.
And so there is the opportunity to be selective in the markets.
And that's what we started doing last year.
So that has kind of driven what I'd say is what we talked about is stability and I'd say rational pricing.
It's still competitive particularly in the power industry if you look across industries.
But what happens going forward is the capacity is now positioned for the opportunities that are on the horizon right? It's not endless capacity.
And so as those opportunities start to come out even in the power industry what you'll see is pricing will start to increase overall.
So a lot of it is going to be driven by what we see in the opportunities towards the back half of the year.
Again I'll say I -- we don't necessarily build our strategic models on the type of pricing environment we saw in '07 and '08 which you saw because of really the backlog and the cycle times carried us almost into 2011.
But we really don't need that to drive to our commitments.
We're going to get good leverage out of price.
And what's very important to us right now is to have our operations positioned to be able to respond quickly and leverage not only revenue but any kind of price benefit we get in the revenue going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And just last question.
Do you guys have any product gaps in your portfolio? Or is that all behind you? I know you had something in IPD a while back but that's behind you.
How should we think about that? Well I mean we do.
We've I think Hamzah you and I have talked about the safety valve but the time and market to develop it is difficult.
So I think we have a pretty broad product portfolio.
I think it's definitely linked and interconnected in terms of how we go to market.
And I think that's certainly an advantage for our customers our sales organization and really our ability to leverage it.
Having said that one of the areas of our what I'd call operational excellence recently has been to really get a clear line of sight of our R&amp;D organization to continue to develop not only on product gaps product enhancements but also technology advancements monitoring and things in and around the product.
So I -- do we have everything we want? No.
And are we going to continue to pursue either technological advancements additional capabilities to products developing products? I mean we have a lot of base technology Hamzah that we can adapt for different applications.
And we think that's a real opportunity.
So it goes back to the buy versus build.
You've seen us buy some.
We've actually built quite a bit.
Most notable one we talked about was the ISO chemical pump but there's certainly been other things.
And then what we want to do is take the products that we have and adapt them to additional applications.
The basic technology existed in Flowserve that we adapted for the thermal solar application.
So we are not sitting still.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I was just wondering a question for Tom Pajonas.
If you could -- I know what your margin aspirations are for the next year or so.
And I was wondering if we could maybe hear from you.
You've been on the job now for about a year and kind of -- if you were to unbundle those margin aspirations by kind of maybe just look at the productivity side which I assume is higher than the margin expansion that you're thinking because of some offsets.
But I just kind of wondering where -- what you're thinking on what the company's ongoing productivity benefit should be and where that will come from? Yes when we talked about the margin enhancement we kind of talk about the propensity in the business.
And we use that word quite often.
I mean if I take a look at the points of leverage and they are points that we haven't yet cleared all of them.
But first and foremost I look at the on-time delivery.
So the more throughput I can get through my factories I can increase the gross margin on the business.
We take a look at the quality.
So my first-pass yield whether it be engineering or supply chain or manufacturing first-pass yield is something that we're working on as a leverage point.
The next one that we're working on is sourcing.
Not necessarily sourcing just low cost but sourcing in order to improve the throughput and the cycle time through our facility again another overall leverage point.
We recently have brought in a Vice President of Projects from the project management organization EPCs in order to lever that point in terms of our project management capabilities i.e.
problem solving and making sure that we get through a problem quickly change control process.
Again another leverage point.
So there's I would say Scott there's a lot of what would appear to be small incremental leverage points.
But when you start working on these in a process and leverage these together we're looking at some good propensity in the gross margin line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes those sounded all like gross margin things.
And at some point do you expect to maybe quantify what the annual could be? Well I mean I think what we have done Scott is -- Mike talked about that last year in terms of operating margins and our targets to improve them 150 to 250 basis points.
And as we develop further and make progress if we have any changes to that we'll certainly let you know.
But I go back there is a frame of reference.
Look at the FCD business relative to its competition in its market.
Look at its gross margins operating margins have been very steady.
And we talked about this before.
We think that the IPD business certainly has the underlying capabilities to get to those type of metrics.
And then on the EPD side it -- there is certainly an element of reduced cycle time and what I'd call operational excellence aftermarket growth overall in that business which has a high margin profile and then to a lesser extent to the question earlier around the pricing environment that exists.
What I want to say Scott is we've put out -- we've talked about this the 150 to 250.
We don't in any way want to suggest we're just going to stop there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No never thought that.
All right.
So I want to maybe talk a little bit about the bookings.
And I know that you were up against a bit of a comp particularly what I would the stacked comp the 2012 and 2011.
But I just want to make sure that that's kind of what it is.
And I know in speaking with Mike and Jay last night that there were some -- a couple of bookings sort of mid-sized bookings in the first quarter of last year.
But I just want to frame my question this way is that we've had capital spending growth in the oil and gas and chemical markets around the world now for more than 2 years.
And certainly on the oil and gas side you don't benefit from that until it starts to really move away from the wellhead.
I get all that.
What I'm wondering is that the declines in organic bookings the last couple of quarters that it's nothing more than a comps issue.
What I'm saying is you have -- you feel very good about the pre-FEED and the FEED in a lot of project releases coming forward.
I think we're all an agreement on that.
What I'm wondering is that the bookings have kind of got you here that type of capital spending that that in fact is not weakening that it's really just a comp issue? No no.
It is more of a comp issue.
I mean I'll I think allude the what you referred to.
If you look at Q1 comps over the last 2 years 2011 we had a significant booking for the Yanbu Export Refinery in that quarter.
I think it approached $80 million and we had some other ones.
And again those were those Middle East projects that were extremely competitive but certainly strategic to us.
And that project actually is now what we call in our legacy backlog for lack of a better term.
When you look at last year the real big quarter that we had was the one we called out in Q3.
But we did have a couple of them that were bid in '11 and booked in '12.
One in Asia one in Europe.
And so -- and these projects can kind of come and go.
This quarter they were actually relatively small which we would expect on the forefront of some of this FEED work that's coming out.
So my point is the underlying market trend relative to the run rate business and the aftermarket has been steadily increasing.
That doesn't vary a lot from 1 -- necessarily 1 year to next.
It will basically reflect underlying trends overall in the business.
We think -- the other thing is we've been able to capture more with our additional product offering.
So a long way of saying the underlying run rate business we've seen good steady improvement and I think that has to do with how we're executing into the markets and the underlying market.
But -- and you and I talked about this in March things do come and go within segments.
So for example FCD had a very strong oil and gas quarter this quarter.
And a lot of that is capitalizing on Valbart but also because it had little presence in that.
So it can move within segments.
As you and I talked about the power industry has certainly been competitive.
I think that's going to be one where we're going to need to see capacity start to get chewed up.
And -- but the oil and gas business has -- we've seen continued investment a lot of it upstream.
We'll start to see it move more downstream.
There's different stories in different parts of the world.
But we're still encouraged with really the industry.
Does that help? Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
No that all helps for sure.
I just want to maybe ask this one last quick one.
I asked this at the analyst meeting as well.
You guys are still thinking that because of the shipments of the improved backlog margins the aftermarket and what have you and the timing of the project releases you're still thinking sort of 40 000 feet that 2013 is kind of more margin-driven earnings than '14 and '14 is more top line driven earnings than '13.
It may not.
That was my comment earlier.
That's actually very well put Scott.
What we talked about this year straight out is our earnings growth is going to be a lot of what we call within the 4 walls improvement in the business.
We do have guidance that has revenue growth out there.
But frankly it's on a constant currency basis it's not to the level that you've seen over the last couple of years.
So as you look at this year and the compares year-over-year it's a lot about improving the operations and in the business which is great because we have a lot of that within our control.
And obviously we get a benefit from share count as well.
To the flip side obviously we're going to have headwinds from tax and interest expense as you kind of walk through the P&amp;L.
But you're right and so it's really a -- an improvement of the operations into also to an extent the share count which we like because we feel that's within our control.
But we do have confidence in our markets over the medium and long term that we're going to get that revenue growth.
I do expect there'll be continued operational improvements that go into next year as well.
Because we're not going to just rest at improved levels.
We think we have opportunities to really get this business at a very high performing level.
Our next question comes from Nick Prendergast from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could kind of piggyback on some of these bookings questions.
I was hoping perhaps you could give some additional commentary about the cadence of your bookings as we move through the quarter.
And did you see it start slow and accelerate or maybe the opposite? Just some commentary along those lines would be really helpful.
Well certainly in Q1 January there's a lot of people on vacation coming off the holidays around the world for various and sundry reasons.
So it does tend to start out slow.
I mean it's the same thing you see in the summer particularly in Europe in the Middle East when either there's a religious event or people are on holiday.
So there is a somewhat of a cadence overall to the bookings.
But our point there wasn't anything notably different from any other prior periods that we've seen in terms of the cadence this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And I guess as a follow-up I guess you call your run rate business.
Presumably that's kind of your small and medium not your large project business.
We saw a decent ramp sequentially in that Q1 over Q4.
And you managed to do that without any major projects announcements.
How do you see I guess this run rate business as we progress throughout the year? I mean I guess what I'm really trying to say is you seem pretty confident that bookings ramp in the second half of the year.
Does that entirely hinge on large project announcements or do you need your run rate business to continue doing as well as it is or perhaps accelerate? I mean our focus when we talked about the latter half of the year is really related to large projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So does that -- I assume that just kind of greatly outweighs the run rate? Well I mean it's not a matter of whether -- I mean yes that's probably a fair term.
I mean these things are notable and sizable.
For example let's go back to Q3 of last year.
We had that $70 million booking in IPD.
And you could see how that impacted their year-over-year comps.
So these things are fairly lumpy and come through.
And believe me they can slip easy from June 30 to July 1.
In the grand scheme of things that has really no impact to the energy infrastructure world.
It does to you because you won't see it.
But that's kind of a way of thinking about it.
And I can even tell you to the energy infrastructure world if it goes from June to September it's not that important.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure I understand.
All right.
And then I guess shifting gears to your share repurchase plans.
It looks likes you're keeping the pace somewhere around $150 million or so in quarter 2 just like Q1.
How do you see that playing out as we move beyond Q2 into your $750 million authorization? Well what we did is we committed to $1 billion program.
And we -- when we commit to things we want to execute them.
So we're going to wrap that up here in the second quarter for the most part.
And then when we talked about is we're going to go back to our previously announced policy which was the 40% -- the 50% of trailing earnings.
That's both share repurchase and dividend.
So -- and we're not market timers.
We just tend to go into the market.
Sometimes we're limited to when we can go into the market.
But for the most part we just try to be as systematic as we can about it.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Hey actually just following up again on some of the previous questions.
But again from kind of the 40 000-foot view just thinking about the balance between the mix that you've been talking now with OE and some of the backlog bleeding through and the low priced backlog being gone hopefully by the end of this year.
So just conceptually I know you don't want to give exact guidance and you won't.
But when we're thinking about 2014 I mean is that going to be a year where we should expect to see very challenged incremental margins because you are saying that you're going to get large bookings late in 2013? Presumably that will be realized in '14.
It should be balanced a bit by low-margin backlog being out of the picture and also some of the operational items that you talked about.
But is the mix profile just going to significantly outweigh these other components and we should expect the conversion is going to be less than normal? You're right.
I mean we certainly don't want to give margin guidance going into 2014 at this point.
But I'd -- let me see if I can parse through your question.
As these orders come in for the large projects keep in mind sometimes they're in -- we use percentage of completion accounting.
But the fact is these projects take a while.
So they don't all show up as OE mix shift in any one period.
Having said that and if you look back into 2007 '08 and to a certain degree '09 you can see although our aftermarket book of business is a lot bigger than it was then you did see significant mix shift with some of these very large projects coming through.
I think we got as high as almost 70%.
And that will impact gross margins all other things being equal.
But our commentary also is the -- in my prepared comments we're continuing to see the improvement in our operations.
So it's not a job that's complete.
So we expect to see continued benefits.
Some of these things take a couple of years right? And so we're going to continue to see benefits in terms of our improved operations.
But a lot of it drives on the gross margin side continue to focus on our fixed cost leverage.
So there's going to be a number of moving parts there.
Just keep in mind when these big orders come in we don't take them in and ship them out in a subsequent period.
They take a while.
So their impacting in this mix shift tends to be somewhat muted by basically the cycle time of that coming through.
But they can as they build up and time moves they can start to drive mix shift in our business.
And let me remind you they also drive earnings.
So you're talking about -- so what's the good news around -- because everybody gets focused on mix shift.
But what does that mean? Well sure we could see OE go up 300 400 500 600 basis points.
We've seen it move up more.
But you don't necessarily see SG&amp;A go up at that level as well.
So you get fixed cost leverage overall in the business.
We get better absorption in our facilities.
There's a lot of good things that come with these projects not to mention the aftermarket component of what we call commissions bearers and then the annuity stream that we get after these things go get commissioned and go into service.
So I just don't want people to react to mix shift.
Mix shift for the right reasons is a great thing for our company.
LLC</strong> And following on so the commentary you had about just absorption of capacity in the market.
I'm just thinking more about -- and I fully appreciate that.
But thinking about more near-term as obviously you're saying that you do have confidence on these larger projects will break free in the second half of the year.
Obviously you're not the only one that's pursuing these projects.
Do you anticipate kind of in early on with the first grouping of projects has actually emerged those are going to be more sensitive to price.
So I'm sure you and your competitors are trying to leverage off these trends.
Should we be concerned that pricing actually could take a dip down before they start to improve as capacity gets absorbed? I mean you -- a lot of our competitors have to have conversations with you around our margins as well especially when you get to some of the more highly engineered.
Keep in mind when you get into some of these complex applications the competitive landscape starts to narrow.
So there's certainly an aspect to that.
And we saw a real difficult pricing environment in '10 and 2011 and we saw as we called some stability there.
Unless there's a fear like you saw in 2009 that the bottom was going to fall out of the industry and that capacity was going to become significantly under-absorbed typically our business doesn't start dropping price out.
Now sometimes you'll have a competitor try to aggressively get a position in the market a number of things that have occurred that can have a temporary impact.
I'll go back to my comment earlier.
We saw this.
You saw it in the Middle East in '10 and '11 with the large EMCs.
And ultimately that will reflect itself in the financial results.
So I mean that's how I think we talked about being disciplined and I can tell you a lot of our competitors are very thoughtful.
They're careful as to how they allocate their capacity as well.
They like to win projects as much as we do and they're good competitors.
But it's not like our industry has huge flex capacity and can ramp capacity up and down like you can in some of the more commodity industries where you can just have additional runs.
I mean a lot of our products have tremendous engineering content to them.
Our next question comes from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Tom this one's for you.
You called out the pipeline arena.
We do know Lawrence brings you to the table on some of the larger scale oil sands valve exposure there.
Can you give us a sense what you guys are seeing especially in the back half? And if you are on some of these larger pipelines for the long haul that seem to be coming along here? The pipeline business has been a good business for us in 2012.
And we are continuing to see some good pipeline business going forward both in the developed as well as in the emerging markets.
It's also good business in terms of the aftermarket business as people will try to put more through the existing pipes maybe even change the viscosity and materials of things like this.
So I would say the pipeline activity has really come in in 2012 and it's seeing good progress in a number of areas in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Would this be an area that you would consider some bolt-on acquisitions to expand your product line? Sure.
I mean this -- it's really how we fit.
When you think about our strategic approach to acquisitions we look at market-to-market opportunities.
And we think that infrastructure is going to continue especially with all these fines in what you'd call the remote parts of the United States be it North Dakota secondary recovery complex recovery because typically you have to get the resource to a centralized distribution location which tends to be in Oklahoma Gulf Coast region wherever they're ultimately going to move it.
And the piping industry basically helps supply meet demand.
And we think that with the supply opportunities in the United States and the demand certainly domestic and potentially international.
I mean they've talked about that having terminals down the Gulf Coast region are going to lead to more energy infrastructure spend.
And I don't think this necessarily going to be unique to the United States.
I think we're just ahead of the curve.
Research Division</strong> And Mark or Tom what's the timing of from when you receive an order to potentially when it's shipped on some of these larger pipeline projects? Just give us a sense a ballpark.
I mean on the shale stuff I could visualize that.
But on the longer aspects and bigger ticketed pipelines what's like the time line from order to shipment? We probably could be talking somewhere around 18 maybe 20 22 or 21 weeks something like this.
It depends on the size of the obviously the pump.
Obviously a little bit less in terms of the industrial products for that.
But that's probably a good number to use.
Our next question comes from Jamie Sullivan from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the revenues.
First I think you basically reiterated the 4% to 6% growth before FX for this year.
Just wondering what at current rates what the FX impacts would be on revenues for translation this year? We saw in the first quarter it was about a 90 basis point impact I think in the currency.
And I'm not sure what our -- I think our -- obviously the average currency was a little below what we put out in our guidance.
But that's the best number we have right now.
I mean Jamie it's really tough to call these currencies because it seems when any government speaks there tends to be a lot of volatility in the pairings of currency.
You saw that certainly happen here in the United States right at the [indiscernible].
But as to the impact in the first quarter it was about 90 bps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then I guess just a follow-up with some of the questions on bookings and margins.
So basically the expectation we have now is bookings should likely pick up throughout '13 as based on the opportunities that are out there and you'll continue to expand margins and hit the target that you've laid out through next year.
I guess Mark it sounds like what you're saying is the industry's in a different point now where capacity is essentially less.
So despite the competition on those large projects where pricing would typically be more intense that it's more rational and you don't see the industry providing any barrier to you hitting the targets that you've laid out with that setup.
No.
No I don't.
I mean in '09 and '10 the industry didn't know where the bottom was.
And so you want to make sure you fill your factories.
And the industry was certainly being impacted by what was going on in the Middle East.
And the industry was fragmented the same assets were in there but participating at different levels for different reasons.
If you look at our industry now they see the same thing we do is medium- to long-term prospects in the energy industry.
And the last thing you want to do is fill up your capacity with poor quality work or things that don't make sense when the opportunity does arise.
Because you can't just drop a project you don't want and put the one in there that you do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then one last one on the capital allocation the dividends and buybacks returning to 40% to 50% after 2Q.
Just wondering how we should think about that? You'll obviously hit that number for '13 by 2Q.
Should we think about the second half on a rolling 2-year basis? Just will you continue to buy back shares in the second half? Yes.
That's I mean that's the way to look at it.
The billion-dollar program was just that.
It was a program that was in addition to our underlying stated policy.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups to previous questions.
First on one Hamzah asked earlier on the deferred maintenance particularly in refining.
You said that you don't think that can go on forever.
We've been talking about it for 2 or 3 quarters now.
How much longer do think that could go on before they require that maintenance to be done? I can just tell you what we -- I think we saw this back in 2007 and it ran about 3 quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you think we're going to be getting pretty close to the end of that now? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark you've been talking about the ramp-up of the OE projects in the second half of 2013 also for 2 or 3 quarters now.
Is there a difference in your level of confidence in that say now versus 2 quarters ago? Are you more confident that it's going to happen? Is there a little more doubt around it or any change in your degree of confidence on the ramp in the back half of the year? Well I mean as you see these things kind of move through the process of course they give you increased confidence.
As you see them on the drawing board for longer you know there are expenses and costs and efforts related to them which gives you more confidence as well.
But we can't -- we saw this again back in 2009.
I hate to go back to there but we knew these projects were going to go online when the whole world thought they were going to go away.
We know they'll come on but they can move.
I can tell you originally when we were sitting in 2011 we thought a lot of these projects were going to come on early part of this year maybe as early as the latter part of last year.
And we've seen some solid move.
So they can move.
But as you get closer right when you're 1 year 1.5 year out the movement is less critical.
As you start moving through the pre-FEED the FEED the bid for the long-lead-time items and everything the timing the ability to really move it becomes much more challenging overall in the business.
And again back in the really strong markets we saw them move basically because they had to rebudget these projects because everything had gone up so much in cost.
But as we get closer we do get more confident one because we've seen more cost attached to those projects.
We also know that there's a cadence building up to it.
We get a sense that some of the longer-lead-time things have been ordered on the project.
That gives you increased confidence.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll think that I'll take that as a little increase in confidence.
And can you just quantify where you are on the past-due backlog and what's left of the legacy low-priced backlog and when that's expected to clear? Well I mean the legacy we saw most of it go out last year.
We have some this year and that will move through the course of this year.
It'll have less of an impact than it did last year.
In the past too we've seen that certainly improve.
But frankly we've seen some more of that be created.
We are ramping it down.
And -- but that underpins my comment earlier is we are seeing we are working on operational improvement.
We're not complete.
And I think there's some things we can get at fairly quickly that Tom's talked about.
And there's things we're going to continue to work on for a long time.
Our next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up question really for Tom if I may.
On the points of leverage that you mentioned were there any points of leverage in the quarter where you achieved greater than expectations? You're encouraged by the 34% margin the gross margin? So can you provide a little bit more color in terms of where you get a bit more leverage and a little bit less leverage than you would have liked? Yes I'm not sure it would be by an absolute number.
But I think we're pretty -- based on the programs we've got in place we have a very solid I would say quality program where we're looking at all the different leverage points that contribute to cost of pro quality.
So warranty rework scrap liquidated damages i.e.
on-time delivery relative to those items we're spending a lot of time on that effort which really is just the basic core execution of the business.
So we're really encouraged by I would say the traction that we're seeing in that area.
And then I would say the second area related to project management is we're going through we're training the entire organization on problem solving to be able to -- when an issue does come up to get that through the system as quickly as possible which then gets into the working capital and issues and a number of other things that we have ongoing.
So we're pretty excited about those 2 pieces specifically.
I mean obviously other things like sourcing initiatives supplier development.
Mark mentioned we're getting a lot of traction in our research and technology process that we revamped and are treating that more like a project.
So every research project is treated just like a contract project with a return on investment and a schedule and a budget and so on.
So we're really driving those things.
And there's not any one thing but I would say it's an integrated process across several.
I think the things that probably had a more notable impact in the quarter versus the comp last year was probably just discipline on the front to a certain degree and some improved on the operations.
But there's a lot still on the table.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached our allotted time for today's program.
I will now turn the call back to Jay for closing remarks.
Thank you Dawn.
And again we appreciate everyone for participating in today's call.
We also look forward to seeing many of you at the various upcoming investor events and conferences.
If you have any follow-up questions please don't hesitate to call Mike Mullin or me.
And Dawn with that we have now concluded this morning's call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche.
Mr.
Roueche you may begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you participating in today's call to discuss the financial results of Flowserve Corporation for the second quarter of 2013 which we announced yesterday through our press release and Form 10-Q filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Mullin our Director of Investor Relations.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
Before turning the call over to Mark I would like to remind you that this event is being webcast and an earnings slide presentation is available both of which are accessible through our website at www.flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
An audio replay will also be available on our website approximately 2 hours following the conclusion of the live call.
Both the audio replay and the slide presentation will remain on our website for a period of time over the next few weeks.
Finally please note that today's call and the associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements that are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of July 25 2013.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
As such we encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release and slide presentation as well as our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more information.
These documents are accessible on Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
Please note except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of today's forward-looking statements.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with the operating and financial results for the second quarter as our dedicated employees continue to deliver on targeted improvements across our operations.
Each segment contributed to solid earnings growth demonstrating the leverage of our diverse and stable business profile and the propensity for ongoing operational improvement is significant.
Our continued focus on delivering on our customer commitment operational excellence thoughtful cost control and capital structure efficiency are returning value to our shareholders drove EPS growth of 27% year-over-year.
We believe this formula of improving operations and reduced share count will produce our solid earnings growth for 2013 and provide leverage over the coming years as we prepare for more meaningful expected growth.
As we progress through 2013 we are capturing internal opportunities by improving the operations positioning the company to more efficiently integrate and leverage future inorganic bolt-on acquisitions optimizing our capital structure efficiency through returns to shareholders and preparing the business to maximize earnings potential of large project work which is expected to reach award stage later this year.
While this summer appears to be more stable than the last several years economies around the world are recovering at different rates.
Europe seems to have stabilized albeit at low levels.
We believe North America has good opportunity ahead on the strength of gas and chemical projects.
While macro growth in Asia Pacific is mixed our objective is to further increase Flowserve's presence in the region.
Latin America should see increased customer spending over the next few years.
And Russia and the Middle East will require increased investment to expand and update capacity.
As we have previously mentioned large orders shifted to the right and none were booked again this quarter.
This is nothing new but we remain optimistic in our core energy markets and the significant build-out expected in North America and the emerging regions.
Given the current market environment we are pleased with second quarter bookings of over $1.2 billion.
This amount represents a 1.3% increase year-over-year and a 3.3% increase sequentially reflecting the continued strength of our run rate original equipment and aftermarket business.
Over the last few years we've grown this type of work into a strong recurring franchise.
In the aftermarket business alone execution of our global end user strategies drove solid bookings this quarter of over $500 million which is encouraging considering the seasonality of our business and some ongoing deferrals of scheduled maintenance in certain regions due to strong refining margins.
Looking at margins.
Our focus over the last year on driving improvements within the 4 walls of Flowserve drove a solid increase in gross margins.
In particular IPD and FCD realized significant improvement in gross and operating margins.
Additionally EPD gross margins were able to overcome an unfavorable mix shift through higher sales and operational initiatives to show an increase as well.
Our One Flowserve initiatives and other investments and operational excellence including quality project management and other company-wide programs focusing on the customer are positioning the business to drive profitable growth.
In addition solidifying an expense management culture remains a top priority which will effectively support our operations as we generate strong leverage on these costs.
Looking briefly at segment performance.
EPD's continued focus on operational excellence improvements and disciplined project pursuit has grown the top line and is steadily improving the quality of the backlog in this traditionally late cycle business.
IPD's operational improvements delivered impressive margins of 12.8% demonstrating substantial progress towards achieving this segment's target range for operating margins of 14% to 15% by 2015.
FCD's strong and consistent operating performance was driven by operational excellence and increased leverage on investments to support the oil and gas markets.
Looking forward to the second half of 2013 we expect to build on the momentum of the first half.
And with another quarter of solid operating improvements behind us I remain confident we are focusing on the right areas and taking the right strategic actions needed to deliver on our commitments to our customers while profitably growing the business and delivering value to our shareholders.
Let me now turn the call over to Tom for his operational review.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark discussed we'll continue to focus on the customer and internally on our operations and costs as we build on the momentum gained last year.
I'm proud of the substantial progress we have made towards our operational improvement targets and the return earned on our investments to strengthen our leadership and optimize our operating platforms.
Impressive margin improvement particularly in FCD and IPD validates our customer focus strategy as well as our efforts to improve our on-time delivery reduce cost of quality and our ongoing investment in and development of our employees.
Our One Flowserve initiatives are also generating solid returns as we leverage global competencies across our operating platforms in the areas such as project management low-cost sourcing and research and development.
We continue to be excited about the propensity to improve our core business fundamentals which include leveraging our global sales force as we focus on the customer and overall growth.
The success of these efforts is evidenced in part by our strong margin improvement.
On a consolidated basis gross margin increased 150 basis points year-over-year.
At the segment level FCD delivered impressive leverage by continuing to operate on a high level by focusing on quality cost reduction and low-cost sourcing.
In addition FCD also benefited this quarter from a mix shift towards aftermarket sales.
IPD's margins expanded again this quarter as well with operational excellence initiatives beginning to take hold as we progress towards our targeted operating margin target of 14% to 15% by 2015.
Looking at our new work.
Bookings this quarter were up nearly 2% year-over-year on a constant currency basis driven by run rate original equipment orders and aftermarket.
This result demonstrates the value of our diverse exposures and strong bookings in FCD more than offset decreased IPD bookings and relatively flat EPD bookings.
While our core reoccurring aftermarket and run rate activity essentially comprised all of our bookings we do remain confident that a number of large projects are in the pipeline and that they will begin to be released in the second half of the year.
Our approach to bidding will remain disciplined.
While the first projects released during a market upturn typically tend to be very price competitive I want to emphasize that we will continue to be selective.
The story in our markets and regions is very similar to the last few quarters.
Our core run rate OE and aftermarket activity has been stable as we prepare for the release of these larger-sized OE projects.
Considering the value we bring to our customers on the front end of major projects our visibility into their progress continues to give us confidence that these projects are nearing the bidding stage and on the path towards ultimate release.
The chemical market in particular is exhibiting strengthening conditions.
Increased competitiveness of the U.S.
upstream and downstream chemicals are changing the dynamics of global competition.
Nearly 100 shale gas-related investments have been announced in North America with a value of over $70 billion the majority of which are for ethylene and ethylene derivatives.
The Middle East is also maintaining their drive towards downstream diversification and the chemical strength in India and China continues within these countries as they drive towards energy and manufacturing security.
Moving to the oil and gas market.
Oil prices remain at levels necessary to encourage major investment and a positive long-term outlook for this commodity contingents.
Saudi Arabia Kuwait China and Russia are planning low sulfur fuel refinery projects while North America is maintaining strong growth in pipeline construction refinery upgrades and gas processing and gas-to-liquid plants to capitalize on the advantaged natural gas and oil supplies.
Additionally we are seeing a shift in the coming opportunities in North America as Western contractors prepare to execute oil and gas projects that will remain here particularly along the U.S.
Gulf coast.
Floating production and storage operations FPSOs opportunities also remain steady in Brazil Africa and Asia Pacific.
Additionally proposed growth in LNG production and export terminals in North America and import terminals in Asia Pacific seemingly offset the slowdown in Australia impacted by a slower China national elections and a high cost of local project execution.
Finally Saudi Arabia China India and Brazil continue to drive major refinery projects.
We see the power market as growing.
China and India continue with their coal-based initiatives while the Middle East is signaling strong future growth in both conventional and solar power.
North America and Europe remains slow due to conservation and low growth in energy demand.
Nuclear power is still in transition although even Japan is considering restarting a number of plants.
And globally we see an increased focus on natural gas fuel combined cycle plants.
The available power industry projects however continue to be driven by fixed price turnkey terms where pricing is the major consideration.
Our efforts to build capability in our Coimbatore India facility will help provide support to this market.
And while aftermarket opportunities are also available on power they are not as uniform globally due to the shift occurring from coal to natural gas generation.
In general industries we are experiencing strong growth in global fertilizer opportunities.
Mining companies are investing more carefully of late but we see good levels continuing in parts of Southern Africa Latin America and North America.
We are also seeing encouraging signs in the desalinization market as industry experts expect new plant orders to rise over the next couple of years.
Finally our distribution business was solid driven largely by order supporting oil and gas projects globally.
As we move into the second half of the year I'm encouraged by the progress we have made over the last 1.5 year and the propensity in the organization to continue this momentum as we look to capitalize on additional opportunities.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Following Mark and Tom's operational overview and business outlook for the remainder of the year let me discuss in greater detail our financial results.
We continue to gain momentum in the second quarter with strong leverage of solid revenue growth of 4.8%.
Our year-to-date revenue growth of 4.2% on a constant currency basis is consistent with the low end of our 2013 revenue growth target of 4% to 6%.
The consolidated OE aftermarket sales mix was consistent with last year.
I was particularly pleased that gross margin improved 150 basis points to 34% driven by impressive margin expansion in FCD and IPD of 280 basis points and 190 basis points respectively reflecting progress on our operational improvement initiatives.
EPD's 20 basis point improvement was also a solid performance considering the headwinds from SG&amp;A and business mix as compared to the 2012 quarter.
This overall gross margin improvement demonstrates the impact of our discipline and selectivity in our bidding process which we will maintain during the expected ramp in large project releases.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
We saw an increase in SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales of 50 basis points driven by a few discrete charges this year totaling $4.1 million and a $3.9 million legal benefit last year that did not recur.
Adjusting for these items we saw a 20 basis point decrease in SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales driven mainly by thoughtful cost control and solid leverage.
We will continue to focus on our longer-term goal of driving additional leverage from these costs as we target SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to be consistently in the 18% range.
I'm confident that the initiatives we are executing currently have us on pace to deliver on this commitment.
The strong leverage in our business was demonstrated with an 11.3% increase in operating income coming off the 4.8% revenue growth.
Shifting to operating margin.
An impressive improvement of 90 basis points to 14.8% was driven by 270 and 250 basis point increases in FCD and IPD respectively.
We continue to believe that we are on target to achieve our consolidated operating margin objective of 100 to 200 basis point improvement by 2014 as well as IPD's targeted margins of 14% to 15% by 2015.
It should be noted however that margins quarter-to-quarter can be volatile and difficult to forecast.
On last quarter's call we indicated that we expected this quarter to face margin pressure from an unfavorable mix which did not occur.
But now we expect that impact to affect Q3.
Below operating income a relatively calm foreign exchange environment resulted in minimal impact from the sequential mark-to-market of our currency hedges and balance sheet items in nonfunctional currencies.
As many of you know this is a pleasant change from recent quarter's earnings volatility as a result of this line and continues to be an area of focus as we work to dampen the impact of foreign currency volatility on our results.
In the meantime we will continue to monitor FX closely.
However a strengthening dollar typically is a headwind for us.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 29.4% and we expect to be in the 30% range for the remaining quarters of 2013.
Turning to cash flows.
We generated $75 million from our operations during the quarter.
Capital expenditures were $27 million.
And we repurchased $150 million of our shares effectively completing our $1 billion share repurchase program announced last year.
We have $536 million remaining on our current buyback program and we'll continue to execute on our strategy to efficiently deploy the balance sheet and return value to our shareholders.
As in prior years we expect to generate a significant portion of our operating cash flows in the second half of the year.
Additionally we continue to focus on our working capital as we methodically implement initiatives to address identified opportunities for improvement and work towards our goal of consistently generating annual free cash flow near our net income level.
Turning to primary working capital.
We saw some improvement in the quarter compared to the 2012 second quarter with a reduction in DSO by 3 days to 78 days.
Inventory turns were essentially flat with the 2012 second quarter.
Again seasonally these only modest improvements are not surprising.
And we are still very much focused on our working capital goals of mid-60s DSOs and inventory turns of 4x to 4.5x.
We believe these targets are achievable with our continued effort.
As I discussed last quarter I'm confident that we are taking the necessary steps to achieve this level and we expect continued progress to occur in 2013.
Moving to our EPS guidance and outlook for the second half of the year.
We are reaffirming our 2013 split adjusted earnings guidance of $3.20 to $3.53 per share following our strong first half results continuing operational improvements and the solid performance of our run rate and aftermarket business.
We continue to expect full year sales growth between 4% and 6% on a neutral FX basis after achieving the low end of the range in the first half.
Turning to our spending priorities.
As I mentioned earlier we will continue to return value to our shareholders and remain committed to our disciplined approach to capital deployment.
Importantly we will continue to invest in our business to deliver profitable growth and solid organic returns forecasting 2013 CapEx of $120 million to $130 million to further increase our worldwide capabilities.
Other uses of cash we expect this year include pension contributions and scheduled debt repayments.
But even combined this amount is modest in comparison to the other priorities.
We believe our capital allocation approach with a targeted debt-to-EBITDA between 1x and 2x provides a flexibility to grow the business organically return capital to shareholders and invest in strategic bolt-ons and we'll continue to produce solid returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Thank you Mike.
We have concluded our prepared remarks this morning.
And Vanessa if you're ready we would like to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on margins.
You spoke of some margin pressure shifting into Q3.
Could you give a little more color? Is that projects that are being delayed that are shipping out later? And was that an EPD? Any color you can give there? Yes I mean we've talked about this before.
If you look at the run-off in our backlog over the last year a lot of that has been some of what I'd call the projects we took before the One Flowserve initiative.
And some of those are still there.
And so it's really those that are running off they'll be primarily in EPD.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow up on margins.
Maybe if you could talk about after putting the COO structure in place a little over 1 year ago maybe talk about what you've done what's behind you already? What's yet to come in terms of IPD getting to that 15% margin rate? FCD it looks like most of the low-hanging fruit is behind you.
EPD it seems like there's still some legacy backlog to cycle through.
Any color you can give on what's behind you what's yet to come? Yes I mean I'll try to just do it at the high level maybe terms of innings as people talk about it.
FCD has been performing at a very high level for a long period of time.
And our COO in fact was running that.
So I'd say 7th inning in that business.
There are certainly still opportunity but the focus there Hamzah is on growth.
And so you've seen that.
We'll tell you what we're focusing on and hopefully that's what we're going to be delivering.
You've seen growth in FCD.
That has been our priority.
In the earlier stages in both EPD and IPD as we've talked about before in IPD we got off to a slower-than-expected start but we're pleased with the progress.
But there's -- our priority there is on improving basically the throughput in our facilities and the efficiency to take advantage of growth.
And you've certainly seen the progress there third or fourth inning probably the same in EPD as well.
EPD also has another aspect of being kind of a late cycle business that there will be a market aspect to it.
But a lot of it is still what I'd call within our control.
So that's probably a good way to frame it up.
These things certainly take time especially in the longer cycle segments.
So really if you think about it we put the COO structure in place in the first quarter of last year.
A lot of the processes were put in the second and third quarter.
So we're starting to see the benefits of that.
But they're working their way through it.
And I think that's one of the areas why we're encouraged is when we look forward we still have a lot of propensity in this business.
We have a lot of opportunity to improve the operations.
And again FCD is a great example of that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a last question from me I'll turn it over.
If you could just touch on the competitive environment that you're seeing out there.
Some of your European competitors are going through some restructuring.
Other players being disciplined.
It seems like you have a good opportunity to take share.
Any comments on the competitive dynamic environment you're seeing out there? Well yes I mean it's -- there are various things going on with competitors.
But I think what you're seeing consistently which we think is an endorsement for our industry is a focus on Flow Control.
And that really benefits the industry altogether.
But you're seeing various things that are occurring.
For the most part what we are seeing relative to 2010 and 2011 is a thoughtful competitive environment.
And thoughtful doesn't mean anything other than everybody is certainly focused on margins everybody is focused on what they put in backlog as opposed to where it was then.
And that's typically what you see when you start emerging from these cycles.
Keep in mind the long cycle business has been basically in a soft patch since really the middle part towards the end of 2008.
So these are the way these things certainly cycle through and you're certainly seeing that in the competitive landscape.
Our next question comes from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
Hey just on the margin pressure that's kind of moved from Q2 to Q3.
What -- can you quantify that in any way as to what that might hit EPD yet? Well I mean I think this will really go back to our statement we're not a quarter-to-quarter business and for a whole host of reasons.
Some of these things can move as they did even from this quarter from one to another.
I think for the most part a lot of the what I'd call pre-One Flowserve initiative backlog has run off.
As I said if you look at the year-over-year 8% decline more than that amount is representative in some of the pre-Flowserve backlog pre-One Flowserve backlog.
But as we look forward there are -- I mean I think -- let's start from the framework of where we are right now.
We have a better margin profile than we did last year.
And the fact is really when the timing of some of these things come through but what we don't want to do is start parsing here over the next couple quarters where the margin impact would be.
Just look at the general trends.
You can see the underlying efficiency and throughput is improving.
I mean we had this quarter year-over-year 70 -- almost 70% contribution margin at the gross profit line on basically flat mix.
That's indicative of an improving margin environment here.
But these things can move -- Charlie in order of magnitude you can think about $20 million $30 million of a project that comes through it at little or no margin.
You can do the math as to what the margin impact will be.
Right right that's helpful.
And just your commentary on the large projects that are kind of moving into pre-FEED theme [ph] into evaluation bid stage.
Would you expect -- I know you think you're going to book some in the second half would you expect some of that -- is some of that stuff short enough that you recognize the revenue? Or is this really all kind of 2014 work that we're looking at? You could yes.
I mean you could see some revenue maybe some engineering work some early stages.
But remember these -- although I would say lead times are shorter than they were in 2007 and 2008 for the most part you're still seeing lead times that are approaching a year on some of these things.
So that would give you an order of magnitude of when we'll start recognizing the revenue.
I think the focus and it was in our comments this year is really around improving the platform moving some of the backlog through the facilities.
And then to a certain degree share count.
That's what's really driving earnings this year.
Okay.
And can you give any more color on what types of projects these are? So end markets or geographies of where you're seeing the bulk of this? Yes I'll let -- Tom can you turn your mic on? Tom will comment on that.
Yes just a quick overview.
Maybe start with -- just by region.
I mean in South Africa the solar opportunities look pretty good.
I'll just quickly go through each one and highlight the big points.
Latin America looking like FPSOs.
It's a good mining and aftermarket opportunity.
Asia Pacific looks like FPSOs.
Power opportunities obviously in the combined cycle gas area as well as refinery.
Europe we have some good aftermarket business versus last quarter but I wouldn't say it's returned to the levels.
Good Russian opportunities in power and oil and gas.
I would say FPSOs in the Netherlands in the European area there is -- has been good in Q2.
Middle East we still look at those decell opportunities as well as the power and the downstream chemical that go with the product diversification.
In North America as we've indicated in Q1 the pipeline business is good good chemical business as everything is shifting now to shale gas.
And then I would say in Europe overall via chemicals I mean there is a general migration on the chemical side to Middle East Asia and China.
Although we're seeing some stabilization on the chemical side of the business relative to some of the economies in Europe improving.
So I would say that's a quick overview.
And then lastly nuclear.
There's a lot of I would say ups and downs in nuclear but Russia is pretty active with 9 reactors going on.
Sweden announced it's upgrading its nuclear fleet.
However in the U.S.
some businesses have announced the move to gas although we are looking at building a couple of nuclear plants in the U.S.
And then obviously China Russia as well as India proceeding on their nuclear units.
I would say that's a very quick regional overview.
Our next question comes from Kevin Maczka with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to touch on the projects again and the visibility in the second half.
Your -- you commented Mark on the thoughtful competitive set but yet now we're also saying that the competitive bidding on these early jobs it may be more competitive than maybe we were previously thinking.
I'm just wondering it sounds like your visibility and the way these projects are advancing is still there which gives you comfort in the second half.
But I'm just wondering if your visibility and your ability to win those jobs has changed at all because you're so disciplined with price and margin which I think we all appreciate.
Yes.
No the competitive nature of these projects as it starts to cycle back is not new news.
I think what we've seen and obviously we've been bidding on some of these things that's what gives us confidence is they're going to come.
It's just to remind you when and I think we talked about this on the last call when these projects start to come back and there's available capacity out there it tends to be competitive around filling that capacity.
And then they start to use price to rationalize that capacity.
It's the way every cycle works.
So this is not new news.
Research Division</strong> Just one more.
On the aftermarket bookings that were relatively flat this quarter have you seen any change at all that you can detect in customer behavior there? Are there any deferrals in any way? I know you were up against kind of a record comp there but any more color you can give on your aftermarket booking trends? No no.
I mean it's relatively flat but we're talking about $0.5 billion bookings.
And just look at the rolling 4 quarters and you can see that we're growing the business in excess of what the net installed base globally is coming online.
So we still feel like we're getting good penetration and executing well.
As you've seen in the past any 1 or 2 quarters and compared to the prior year flat or slightly unfavorably.
And I think we were talking about this in 2009.
People were worried that it was going to start to tail off.
And in fact what you've seen is a solid good mid-to-high single-digit growth over that period of time on a CAGR basis.
And our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to actually touch on the recognition of revenues again for the large projects.
I think previously when we talked about it you noted it was likely to be on a percentage-of-completion basis given the size of these and how you have to work through the engineering.
So if you are booking awards starting maybe late '13 and maybe that slips into '14 who knows but is this be going to be recognized more on an S-curve type fashion where maybe the first I don't know 12 months or so you're recognizing very little revenue and then it spikes higher? Just trying to get a sense of how those will actually ramp.
They ramp with your cost.
I mean it's really -- as you build cost into the project you had your standard margin to that as you go through it and that's basically how it builds up.
You do make an adjustment at the end.
But that's how percentage of completion works.
And keep in mind percentage of completion taking a step back runs at or less than 10% of our overall revenue.
LLC</strong> Right.
So it should be more linear rather than an S curve like we saw with EPCs? Well I means they go with cost.
Costs aren't necessarily linear.
So it's -- as you start to build cost I mean you may have some engineering work and then do some spec design with the customer.
And then you start to order some castings.
When the castings come in the motors come in as you can imagine.
And keep in mind and as we talked about before in some of these big systems 40% to 50% of the cost of that the revenue base comes from other suppliers like a big motor.
So when that motor comes in when you have a cost associated with that obviously you'll have a revenue component.
So I wouldn't necessarily say it's linear but it definitely lines up with the project.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe over to Mike -- I'm sorry Mike Taff.
So just talking more about free cash flow.
You guys' conversion has certainly lagged net income for many years now.
So you guys are working quite diligently on your working capital accounts.
I'm just curious at what point should we anticipate that you actually do achieve net income type of conversion? You actually -- I would think you should exceed that type of 100% conversion for some time.
It looks like that's probably not going to happen in '13.
But starting potentially next year should we anticipate you start exceeding that level and then you level off around net income thereafter? If you could just give maybe some more definitive timeline as far as when we could anticipate that type of improvement.
Well I think as we said in our prepared comments we've got a lot of initiatives underway.
I think we're focused in the right areas and certainly working with Tom's group we're focused on the biggest components being receivables and inventories.
But I think you'll see some of that benefit starting first half of next year and then continue through there.
So I mean -- but long-term as we get into 2014 that's certainly our goal is to have a consistent cash flow that's near our net income level.
If you think about it from an order-to-cash standpoint on any project with One Flowserve initiative what we did is start it on the front end of the process.
And frankly working capital will tend to be what comes towards the end there.
So what should give you confidence that we're going to get there is now you -- look now at the contribution margin and the gross profit line that is indicative of improving operations and execution.
We do still have work to do on our operations.
I definitely want to call that out.
But then that should give you confidence it's going to lead the working capital efficiency.
LLC</strong> If I could just slip one last one.
Just Mike I think you also said -- Mike Taff.
Again sorry.
I think you did say you're working on other initiatives to neutralize the impact of FX.
Can you just comment on that? Are there some plans in place where we can start to see that transaction swing quarter-to-quarter and start to mitigate at some point? Well certainly we're pleased with the results this quarter where we had essentially a minimal effect there.
There are a number of things where we are working towards continuing to look at different hedging strategies and all and also looking at whether there's ways to account for our hedging programs differently that would really just try to eliminate as much volatility as possible.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could start with a clarification.
I think Mike during your comments you said 100 to 200 basis points margin improvement by 2014.
I think in January last year the goal was 150 to 250 basis points.
Is that a change or are you basing that over a different timeframe? It's over a different timeframe.
We -- remember when we put the 150 to 200 basis points that was 1 year ago January.
So it was coming off of 2011 results.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's up 2012 results? Yes.
Yes we improved about 50 basis points in 2012.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
Mark thinking a little longer term and a little more strategically it seems like we're getting the portfolio into better shape One Flowserve's having its effect.
When you think about M&amp;A obviously Flowserve has not been very active for quite some time.
Thinking about potentially larger deals or adding another platform or something more major in the M&amp;A front can you talk about what your appetite for that might be and what kind of timeframe you might think about? Well I mean the timeframe is probably dictated more by the market than anything else.
But I will say this.
I think our focus is if you consider the size and scale of our business we don't feel at this point that we need to go and make a huge consolidation play in the industry.
Consolidation be it more where you're taking capacity out consolidating costs basically substantial integration.
Frankly what we've done between 2009 and 2012 with all the changes we made in our business was almost like a large acquisition.
And so we're very focused on continuing this momentum.
Having said that there have been and the opportunity set is certainly a little light right now in the industrial space but there have been and we think will continue to be opportunities of size that we would classify as a bolt-on a bolt-on being where we bring in as a business and leverage our results platform our aftermarket platform certainly our leadership team that we have in place right now or even take something on the adjacent side that is focused around rotating equipment where we can drive our end-user strategies.
That's how we think about it.
And I can tell you as we continue to improve operations it gives us increasing confidence of being able to integrate one of these bolt-on acquisitions.
So I think from our standpoint if you look at it we want to make sure we maintain capital structure flexibility to take advantage of opportunities.
But we also want to make sure that we drive improvement to this platform and don't do anything to set it back.
But from a huge transformational industry consolidation play we just don't see that that makes sense at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one for Tom.
Tom orders in Flow Control have bounced back nicely after some negative growth last year.
Is that growth coming short cycle through distribution or more at project basis? Does this feel like a bit of an early cycle period for Flow Control and could we see that continue for a few more quarters? Well in Q2 the aftermarket business was up in Flow Control.
So that's one area.
But I would say in general it's the larger projects the FPSOs in Brazil and out of Korea and off the European coast as well as we've seen some good nuclear parts business for North America and Southeast Asia.
And then I would just say long gas projects in the Middle East.
Those are the main areas.
What you're seeing from that is I think to your point is a little bit of an early cycle read.
And you're seeing it with other process companies as well.
But I don't want to -- you said we haven't really made -- been too active in acquisitions.
I mean we acquired Valbart 3 years ago to get our presence in the oil and gas industry.
And we consistently see the benefit of that acquisition in our results over the last few quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just in terms of distribution in Flow Control how has that been over the last couple of quarters? I mean that distribution business was up in this last quarter.
It was basically in the oil and gas area and the chemical market.
And again a little distribution increase we also saw in China based on the last 2 or 3 years' worth of the OE projects that we started to place down in there.
And then we've had just a small amount of distribution on the U.S.
power market.
But that was up in Q2.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on the cash flow side Mike I'm looking at the cash flow statement on the press release end.
The year-to-date investment in inventory and receivables certainly have improved.
It seems to me that more of the working capital issue is matching at least in the first 6 months of this year of what you're doing on the asset side versus what you're doing on the payable and liability side.
That's just a number.
Is that a fair statement? And maybe what are you thinking on that? What's the plan to improve that? Well certainly I mean I think on the accounts payable side you saw some usage on accounts payable.
But I think that's just more timing than anything Scott on that same point.
The accrued liabilities side it kind of matches with what we've been talking about.
One of the large users year-over-year and for the first 6 months was deferred revenues.
And as we talked about the lack of the large project bookings over the last several quarters more on the run rate business and aftermarket business you just tend to have less of that deferred revenue and upfront payments and all.
So that kind of makes sense with where the bookings have been the last several quarters.
I think as we get -- the long cycle business starts to increase into the second half of this year.
And next year you'll see that turn and be a bit more positive.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And I also wanted to maybe talk again about the projection of -- your guys projection of when these things start to -- these projects start to get released and when you can start to bid on them.
And maybe this is more of a question for you Mark than anyone.
But also I'd certainly -- any chiming in would help from the 2 EPC guys in the room.
Is the turn the potential bottoming of steel prices something of a catalyst for when projects get released? Essentially where I'm going with this is do end-users say "Okay steel isn't declining anymore; maybe it's starting to turn the corner." Certainly it has bottomed.
Is that a potential catalyst for projects? No it's -- I mean we -- if there's a view of ramp and increase or extreme increase in material cost like you saw in '07 and '08 people were hurried to get their capacity in place to process that like you saw in the mining industry with some of materials.
But steel may be an indicator of kind of general economic outlook which will play through.
But at this stage where these projects are steel prices in and itself are not going to drive what brings them this quarter the next quarter.
You think about some of these projects that we're talking about that we see on the horizon do going into commission in 2015 '16 and '17.
And so if you take a step back from there they already in a sense kind of have their timeline that's built out.
They need that capacity online power refinery or whatever it may be in those periods of time.
That's why they can move a couple of quarters as they move through it.
But steel and you see that with any natural resources.
Because of the lead times on this capacity and sometimes where we are in this stage with the pre-FEED and the FEED work done the amount of investment that's already in it that steel price or a marginal move in gold a marginal move in oil anything like that is not going to really change the pace of which these things go out.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
That's really all I had with the I guess maybe the one I don't think that you guys called out any types of gains or discrete losses on disposals or anything like that.
You would have called that out right? So I'm assuming none this quarter? The only thing -- yes.
No we didn't.
The only thing that we talked out discreet I think was in our press release.
Pretty minor.
Our next question comes from Jamie Sullivan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Mark your commentary around the cycle.
I just had a quick follow-on there.
You sort of mentioned the cycle has its pattern this one's no different.
What does seem different is Flowserve and the discipline and selectivity that's been happening.
So I guess the question is whether -- are you going to participate at the same level at this cycle or are you going to pick your spots at certain points of the cycle? I'm just wanted your thoughts on that.
Well I think in general as a company our -- where we were versus the last cycle far more disciplined and certainly improved execution.
So I think you should expect that to continue.
Having said that I look at commentary from some of our competitors.
And I think they're talking about increased discipline as well.
So we wouldn't underestimate them by any stretch of imagination.
But I think in general if you're asking what's changed? Yes there's certainly going to be more discipline.
And if you look at -- there's a lot of changes this cycle versus the last.
One Flowserve being one of them the disciplined approach the way we can utilize our capacity in our lead product secondary product we actually in effect have more and more efficient capacity to deal with project opportunities.
Obviously we're in different locations around the world where the opportunities are.
So there's -- it's a long conversation.
The next time I'll see you I'll be happy to have with you around what's changed during that period of time.
But you should expect continued discipline from us through this cycle.
A lot of the reason is if you look at what has really been carrying us for the last 3 or 4 quarters it's been the aftermarket and run rate franchise and the improving operation is driving earnings growth.
Great leverage on the gross margin line now and even all the way through the operating line.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I'll follow on with the free cash flow discussion getting to near net income.
Mike I just wondered if you do win these some of these large projects let's say in the back half of the year early next year knowing some of the working capital requirements on the project business do you still feel you can hit 100% of net income next year with that mix shift? Yes I mean the key there Jamie is just really focusing on our terms and conditions.
And that's part of our -- this month's [ph] activity.
It's not just the margins we're putting in the job terms the conditions are very important.
And with that comes building milestones and things of that nature.
So that's something that we continue to stress with the organization.
And it's just important to stay in line with the customer there with our cash flow requirements on these big projects.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last quick one if I could.
EPD there's a mention of a bad debt expense increase.
Could you add some color there magnitude of what the driver was? Well it was just -- it was one customer and it's basically all taken care of.
So it's not something that you'll see that would recur.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so that might actually help margins play into the third quarter? Well I mean certainly.
I mean I'm not sure we'll get recovery from that one particular item.
But it's relatively small.
But it was a development project that we're working on and all.
But it is taken care of.
Our next question comes from Steve Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Tom you gave a nice outlook on the regional opportunity set.
Do you have any sense of which regions are more advanced in their award process and may come in sooner versus those that are maybe going to be a bit later? Well I mean certainly if I looked at Europe I would just say in general Europe is I would say moving out of some of the economic situations that they've had over the last 18 months.
But then I would say in other regions it's very dependent upon the type of product within the industry.
So for instance and obviously in the U.S.
you have pipelines which is maybe different than say your coal-fired power plants which is going through some changes and certainly FPSO seems to be I would say prevalent at certainly in different parts of the world Brazil and off the coast in Europe and so on.
I would say it really depends upon a number of different factors.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like it's still fairly wide open as to where these first projects would come from.
Yes I would say the good news on the power side is that we're seeing a lot of power activity different than what was there in the past as one of the first I would say of these type of projects that previously were in FEED and pre-FEED we're seeing them transition now to a -- an active bidding/further potential buying stage after this bidding stage that we're going through right now.
I think the answer to that question and the way we go through it there's probably some general regional overlays.
But the way Tom goes through these things specifically should highlight why we -- and we know and have an understanding when these projects are going to come on because they're very specific to the type of activity that's going on.
But in general I mean I think our commentary around the regions was Europe is stable at low levels.
North America you're going to see -- they keep talking about a manufacturing renaissance.
And relative to Europe I do want to point out 4 years ago the commentary around North America was manufacturing was leaving.
It wasn't going to ever recover.
Things weren't going to be the same.
And here we are and it's quite different.
I wouldn't expect anything too different out of Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the second half I guess a question along the same lines.
I mean are you thinking that these awards have come to the market it'll be just kind of one-offs or might it be a more robust flow of projects coming to market? Or is that more of a 2014-type situation or is it just too hard to tell on the timing of these bigger projects? Probably fairly to really say that more general project activity will be 2014.
I mean they're all on-off frankly the way we work them.
But I think more of a general project-type activity is going to be across the board is going to be 2014.
And our next question comes from William Bremer with the Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> This morning one of your competitors had to adjust their guidance due to pretty much similar commentary from you guys in terms of a lack of large-scale projects and some of them shifting to latter periods impacting the remainder -- remainder of '13.
Should we be expecting based upon your guidance that we should be more towards the lower end due to this at this point? Bill yes I mean we don't -- we certainly don't give guidance within the guidance.
And my comments earlier around this year was the increased efficiency which you commented on at the beginning and share count is really what drives earnings this year.
But one other thing relative to that competitor who has got a great presence in oil and gas.
They're more vertical across the oil and gas industry.
We're more diversified across different sectors than they are.
Research Division</strong> Well that's a given.
Agreed.
My second question is has there been any type of repricing or cancellations in the backlog currently? Repricing again is -- if you think about it we have firm contracts when we go into these things.
That's typically not a big issue.
The pricing activity occurs before you get the contract not necessarily after.
And cancellations haven't been anything out of the ordinary.
Research Division</strong> Good to hear.
And then Tom you mentioned you called out some of the pipeline activity.
Can you give us a sense of primarily is it shales? We really haven't seen too much on long haul pipe especially here in North America as of yet.
But maybe just give us an idea of the content of the pumps involved and your exposure to pipelines in general just a nice little overview if you may? Yes I would say generally you're correct.
It's not necessarily the long overhaul pipeline business that we're talking about.
Most of this is associated with the shale and the liquids business.
In a lot of cases it maybe operates to an existing facility also on the aftermarket side of the business.
So I would say it's some new and it's also operates through existing systems on the pipeline business.
Research Division</strong> And would you -- how would you characterized your year-over-year in terms of this particular segment? I mean would you say you're running 20% or 30% higher year-over-year at this point? I would say the run rate business pipeline business I would say is very similar and has been -- it grew nicely last year and the same thing this year overall as an industry.
So I would say it's staying at the same levels in terms of the overall industry itself year-over-year.
And our next question comes from Joe Radigan with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question.
Tom mentioned $70 billion in shale investment on the radar.
Are you similarly able to quantify the magnitude of projects you're tracking on an overall basis globally just to give a sense of order of magnitude for the opportunity that's ahead here.
And then how do you think about capture rate either historically or what your target going forward? Well I mean we do track all that.
But we don't this discuss that necessarily publicly.
I mean the general information around project opportunities is from third-party sources which we use as well as available.
But in terms of what we're targeting there's certainly plenty of opportunity over the horizons over the next couple of years but we don't go into that detail.
And our next question comes from David Rose with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Two final questions.
I was hoping that if you think about the -- your commentary around revenues for next year or at least this year was a year of really a year of execution and discipline and then next year is a year of growth.
This year you were talking about 4% to 6% top line growth.
You indicated Mike that you're at the bottom end of that.
So in order for you to exceed that number next year what sort of bookings expectations do we have to see for the back half of this year on a year-over-year basis? That's one and then I have a second follow-up.
Well I mean for -- obviously for growth next year with some pickup this year or next year in the order book will drive revenue growth in the projects.
But also and I think equally or more important continued growth in our run rate and aftermarket business like you've seen.
One thing to keep in mind with these projects when we book them is that's revenue you take over a longer period of time.
And -- but the shorter cycle run rate and aftermarket business that tends to manifest itself in revenues quicker.
So my point is a company can have a significant increase in big project work that goes into their backlog but may cover revenue over 1.5 year.
So that growth will be muted over that period of time relative to the booking growth in any one period.
But the run rate business and the aftermarket business can grow quicker.
And that's why we stay very focused on it.
If you look at over the last couple of years we've grown those businesses.
Those tend to be more stable margins.
Aftermarket is high-margin business.
So hopefully that will give you some color.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
I mean obviously you had difficult comps as noted in your aftermarket business.
So we would need to see a progression of that aftermarket growth along with stable OE bookings.
Is that pretty fair in order to see growth above this year? Yes that's fair yes.
And just don't look at any one quarter.
Because again going back to the aftermarket this is over $0.5 billion of aftermarket.
We weren't anywhere near this size of aftermarket business 4 or 5 years ago.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And the other question is the IPD margins were very impressive.
And again this goes back to your point about the aftermarket business.
The bookings were down significantly both on OE and then they were down for the aftermarket for that business.
So you lose some of that operating leverage you have.
You're obviously executing better.
So is it intuitive then at the margins you sort of take 2 steps forward 1 step back on the margins that is sequentially maybe it's a third or fourth quarter we should see some decline in that margin on a sequential basis? Well as you're -- I think the way to look at margins you're 2 step forward 1 back may be when they're operating more efficiently and that the marginal impact of mix is really the primary driver of margin impact when you're improving your operations from where they are.
I mean believe me they've got a ways to go.
It's going to be more about your throughput and your execution which has been a priority.
So if you look year-over-year we focus them on the run rate business.
They had a couple of what I'd call medium projects in the second quarter last year that came through their bookings.
But really it's been around making sure that they're most efficient in taking good care of their customers.
So I think over the near-term as we continue to improve this business I think more of the margin profile is going to be over improving the operations and getting better efficiency.
And then down the road we'll get to the discussion of OE aftermarket mix OE growth aftermarket growth that will start impacting margins.
That's where we want to be with the business.
If we get all of our businesses that way like we are in the Flow Control division then it's a different discussion.
Research Division</strong> So then I shouldn't expect the IPD business margins to decline given the decline in the bookings number? In and of itself in the bookings no.
They can have mix issues.
They can certainly have things from quarter-to-quarter.
We're going to 14% to 15% in this business over the next 1.5 year 2 years.
That's still a ways to go.
One quarter to the next things can change.
We keep telling you be careful to try to evaluate this on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
And that was our final question.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Paulette and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now the call over to Jay Roueche Vice President of IR and Treasurer.
Please go ahead.
We appreciate you participating in today's call to discuss the financial results of Flowserve Corporation for the third quarter of 2013 which we announced yesterday through our press release and Form 10-Q filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Mullin our Director of Investor Relations.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions.
Instructions will be given at that time.
Before turning the call over to Mark I would like to remind you that this event is being webcast and an earnings slide presentation is available both of which are accessible through our website at flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
An audio replay will also be available on our website approximately 2 hours following the conclusion of the live call.
Both the audio replay and the slide presentation will remain on our website for a period of time over the next few weeks.
Finally please note that today's call and the associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements that are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of October 25 2013.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
As such we encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release and slide presentation as well as in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information.
These documents are also accessible on Flowserve's website under the Investor Relations section.
Finally please note except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of today's forward-looking statements.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared remarks.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with the company's performance in 2013 including our strong third quarter results.
The key factor driving our significant operating and earnings leverage across the business is the commitment of our dedicated employees in executing our initiatives and strategies.
Their efforts have prepared the company for growth.
Our focus over the last 18 months on operational improvement and capital structure efficiency position the company for upcoming market opportunities.
Profitably growing the business and delivering value for our shareholders remain our top priorities.
We delivered on these priorities during the quarter.
We turned mid-single-digit revenue growth into double-digit increase in operating income which resulted in a 30% improvement year-over-year in EPS.
In particular we were encouraged by the strong flow-through to gross margin and operating margin.
Our solid performance and improved operating margins resulted from strong revenue growth in EPD improved IPD operations consistent strong performance in FCD and reduced SG&amp;A in each segment.
We again demonstrated the earnings leverage available within our diverse and stable business profile and the propensity for further operational improvements is significant.
We remain committed to delivering value to our customers and shareholders by focusing on growth operational excellence and volume leverage thoughtful cost control and optimizing our capital structure efficiency including returning value to our shareholders.
We believe this formula of disciplined growth improving operations and reduced share count is the key component to our solid year-to-date results in 2013 and provides the foundation for continued earnings leverage over the coming years.
Speaking briefly to our end markets some uncertainties remain.
The world economy is fairly sluggish and the unpredictable political environment creates delays in investment decisions regarding major long-term infrastructure projects.
Despite these issues we are encouraged as Europe has demonstrated stability and signs of improvement.
North America has been steady and good opportunities are ahead on the strength of oil and gas and chemical projects.
Macro growth in Asia is expected to continue and our objective is to increase our presence.
Latin America should see increased customer spending over the next few years assuming currency and political stability and we continue to believe that Russia and the Middle East will require increased investment to further expand and update their capacity.
In fact we have started to see a few customers proceed with large infrastructure projects but as expected they have been very competitive.
Considering large project activity is not yet ramped to the level we anticipate in the near future we will remain disciplined and selective.
We expect that the pace of these opportunities will quicken as evidenced by a number of significant projects awarded to EPCs in the energy space and in particular some large chemical projects in the Gulf Coast.
These awards and the continued progress of other projects we are tracking are good leading indicators of our OE business.
We were pleased to receive a few medium-sized orders during the third quarter including one project order for approximately $30 million.
These awards in combination with our steady run rate original equipment business resulted in our highest quarterly level of original equipment bookings since the first quarter of 2012.
Our confidence that the cycle is beginning to turn with a low-cost natural gas tailwind continues to build.
Backed by solid original equipment orders we are pleased with our overall third quarter bookings level which exceeded $1.2 billion in total.
This sum represents a 3.7% increase year-over-year and is the third sequential quarter of total bookings growth.
This quarter's growth was achieved despite a difficult compare period.
As you may recall the 2012 third quarter included large bookings in excess of $90 million in IPD.
Aftermarket bookings of $479 million remain solid as we continue to execute our global end-user strategies.
As discussed previously many of our refining customers had deferred some of the scheduled maintenance since late last year due to strong margins.
However these deferrals are temporary and the needed maintenance work will build so we expect the situation to abate in the future and ultimately return to normal seasonal activity.
Looking briefly at segment performance.
EPD's earnings power was demonstrated in the third quarter with nearly 1/3 of its $84 million revenue increase flowing through to operating income despite the increased sequential legacy shipments.
IPD's operational results continue to deliver year-over-year improvement increasing gross margins by 120 basis points and delivering operating margins of 11.3%.
This trajectory maintains its trend line and remains on pace to achieve the segment's targeted range for operating margins of 14% to 15% by 2015.
FCD which has had strong and consistent growth in operating performance for many years delivered its highest gross margin since the first quarter of 2010.
The operational excellence demonstrated in this segment reflects the opportunities for all of our businesses.
Looking forward to the 2013 fourth quarter and beyond we expect to continue building momentum and anticipate growth ahead.
With another quarter of solid operating improvement behind us I remain confident the management team and our employees are focused on the right areas.
We are taking the strategic actions needed to capture opportunities within our core markets operations cost structure and existing global footprint.
Let me now turn the call over to Tom for his operational review.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I too am pleased with our third quarter financial results.
This performance is visible evidence of the operating progress we have made.
Our disciplined investments in the operating platform are delivering returns.
These initiatives including improved quality project management aftermarket service capabilities project pursuit and sales organization initiatives will position Flowserve to meet or exceed customer expectations and capture opportunities from a strengthening cycle.
Over the last year or so we have talked about the importance of improving our key metrics and processes.
One area where we have made significant progress this quarter is with on-time delivery.
During the third quarter we drove our past due backlog below 6%.
This is a quarter level not seen since 2009.
In a continuous improvement environment we recognize that our work is never complete.
We still have working capital and cash generation goals to achieve.
But with our recent steady improvement of DSO and on-time delivery it gives me confidence we are pulling the right levers giving our people the necessary tools to reach our goals and will enable a high level of performance going forward.
Our strong operating performance also helped drive impressive gross margin expansion.
This increase occurred in spite of a somewhat lower aftermarket percentage.
We also generated outstanding flow-through as our focus on controlling costs resulted in lower SG&amp;A across our segments and allowed more of a top line growth to result as income.
Sequentially we also had a sizable increase in the shipments of legacy backlog.
Turning to our order activity.
We remain optimistic.
Third quarter bookings were up 3.7% year-over-year driven by growth in all regions except Latin America.
EPD bookings were the highlight within our segments.
EPD increases total bookings by over 20% primarily driven by 53% growth in original equipment.
Flowserve's consolidated bookings this quarter once again demonstrated the value of our diverse end markets and regional exposures.
For instance IPD bookings were down on a tough compare to last year's third quarter.
However excluding the impact of a group of large orders exceeding $90 million last year at IPD its bookings would have increased roughly 18% this quarter.
Similarly FCD's bookings were down 2% for the 2013 third quarter but year-to-date remained up a very solid 6.6% for the year.
As Mark discussed our bookings continued to rely on our reoccurring aftermarket and run rate activity.
However we did win a few medium-sized projects in the third quarter.
This type of OE work in combination with the EPC awards we have seen is a positive sign that the market is nearing a turn.
We remain confident that the number of large projects are in the pipeline and expected for release over the next few quarters.
I will again emphasize however that our approach to bidding will remain disciplined.
Executing on the processes deployed throughout the organization over the last 18 months has proven successful and remains critical to the overall long-term quality of our backlog.
Summarizing our end markets.
The chemical market remains strong and the outlook is very positive further buoyed by recent EPC project award for new ethane capacity in the Gulf Coast.
The announced level of North American shale gas-related investments is impressive valued at over $70 billion and the majority of this capacity is destined for ethylene or ethylene-derivative projects.
The Middle East is also continuing their drive towards downstream diversification while Asia and Latin America are reassessing their chemical development plans.
Turning to oil and gas.
Current oil prices and the positive long-term outlook clearly support major investments.
Significant refinery projects in the Middle East Asia and Latin America are expected.
North America continues the strong growth in pipeline construction to address new pipeline capacity requirements refinery upgrades in gas processing and gas-to-liquids plants to capitalize on advantaged natural gas and oil supplies.
Also in North America we see a shift in the coming opportunities.
Western contractors executing oil and gas projects that will remain here particularly along the U.S.
Gulf Coast should be an advantageous development for Flowserve considering our presence in the region.
Expected changes in Mexico allowing foreign participation in its oil and gas production should provide a potential opportunity for us.
Additionally we are pleased that LNG production and export terminals in North America continue the permitting process which could be another source of growth.
In other upstream regions floating production storage and offloading FPSOs; opportunities remain steady in Brazil Africa and Asia Pacific.
Moving to the power market.
We see it growing driven by the fossil-based initiatives in China and India.
The Middle East also signals strong future growth both in conventional and solar power.
North America and Europe remain slower due to conservation and low growth in energy demand.
Recent EPA rules for coal plants may require carbon capture which is still developing.
Nuclear power remains in transition although even Japan is considering restarting a number of plants.
Additionally opportunities continue in upgrades operates [ph] and recertification of aging existing plants.
Finally we are seeing an increased focus globally on natural gas fuel combined cycle plants.
Our general industry markets continue to see high activity levels in global fertilizer projects.
Mining companies are investing more carefully of late but good levels continue in parts of Southern Africa Latin America and North America.
The desalination market is also displaying encouraging signs as industry experts expect new plant orders increasing over the next few years.
Finally our distribution business primarily valves was very solid.
This activity largely derived from orders supporting global oil and gas projects.
Wrapping up our operational progress over the last 1.5 years is significant.
However I'm equally encouraged by the propensity of the organization to continue this momentum and capitalize on additional opportunities.
We look to finish the year strong and I'm confident that our improved operating platform and solid backlog have us well-positioned to deliver on our full year commitments and set the foundation for the future.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Mark and Tom have pretty well covered our operational overview and business outlook so I'll quickly discuss our financial results in greater detail.
While Flowserve's value proposition is much more than any individual quarter we are pleased with our reported results and continue to gain momentum.
We generated strong leverage off solid revenue growth of 5.4% on a reported basis and 6.4% on a constant currency.
This brought our year-to-date constant currency revenue growth to 4.9% which is right in the middle of our 2013 revenue growth target range of 4% to 6%.
Our OE to aftermarket sales mix this quarter shifted 1 percentage point to 62% OE versus last year which pressured gross margins.
Looking at margins.
As we indicated last call we expected third quarter gross margin pressure in EPD which occurred as we shipped a sizable amount of previously delayed legacy backlog.
Offsetting this and the lower aftermarket sales were strong gross margin performance in IPD and FCD which together enabled impressive gross margin improvement of 100 basis points.
This improvement demonstrates the impact of our bidding discipline and selectivity.
It also reflects the solid operational improvements that Tom discussed.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
We drove a reduction of absolute dollars spend in each segment excluding corporate.
This resulted in a decrease of 70 basis points in consolidated SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales and was driven by disciplined thoughtful cost control and solid leverage notably in EPD.
We continue to focus on our longer-term goal of driving additional leverage from this expense as we target SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to be consistently in the 18% range.
The initiatives we are currently executing combined with a growing top line should keep us on pace to deliver on this commitment in the coming years.
The strong leverage in our business was demonstrated again this quarter with a 16.7% increase in operating income coming off the 5.4% reported revenue growth.
Operating margins increased an impressive 150 basis points to 15.7% primarily driven by the 220 and 210 basis point increases in EPD and FCD respectively.
We continue to believe we are on pace to achieve our consolidated operating margin objective of 100 to 200 basis point improvement by 2014 off of year-end 2012 levels as well as IPD's targeted operating margin goal of 14% to 15% by 2015.
For the second consecutive quarter we saw a relatively calm foreign exchange environment.
As such we experienced minimal impact from the sequential mark-to-market of our currency hedges and our balance sheet items in nonfunctional currencies.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 30.6% and we anticipate this 31% level for the fourth quarter.
Turning to cash flows.
We delivered solid improvement year-over-year and sequentially.
Flowserve generated $142 million from our operations during the 2013 third quarter.
Capital expenditures were $34 million and we repurchased $64 million of our shares.
At quarter end we have $473 million remaining under our current buyback authorization.
We will continue to execute on our strategy to efficiently deploy capital to the most accretive long-term alternatives including organic and acquisitive growth and returning capital to our shareholders.
As in prior years we expect to generate a significant portion of our full-year operating cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Additionally we continue to focus on working capital initiatives to address identified opportunities for improvement.
Our goal remains to consistently generate annual free cash flow near our net income level.
Turning to primary working capital.
We produced some improvement in the 2013 third quarter year-over-year with a reduction in DSO by 5 days.
This builds upon the progress we made in the second quarter with year-over-year improvement of 3 days in that quarter.
Inventory turns remained essentially flat with the 2012 third quarter; however we were especially pleased with the significant progress on our goal to reduce past due backlog achieving a quarter end level not seen since 2009.
These steady improvements in our DSO combined with the reductions in past due backlog provide confidence that we are progressing towards our working capital goals of mid-60s DSO and inventory turns of 4x to 4.5x.
Looking ahead to our EPS guidance and outlook.
We are raising the low end of our 2013 guidance range to $3.33 from $3.20 per share and leaving the upper band at $3.53 per share.
Our confidence in this move follows our strong year-to-date results as well as our continuing operational improvements and solid performance of the run rate and aftermarket businesses.
Similar to last year our full year share repurchase activity may impact average share counts such that full-year EPS could be slightly lower than the sum of the 4 individual quarters.
Considering we're near the midpoint of our organic sales growth guidance we left the 4% to 6% range changed on a neutral FX basis.
Turning to our spending priorities.
As I mentioned earlier we will continue to return value to our shareholders and remain committed to deploying cash to the most accretive long-term alternative including bolt-on acquisitions.
Importantly we will invest in our business to deliver profitable growth and solid organic returns.
Forecasting 2013 CapEx of $120 million to $130 million to further increase our worldwide capabilities.
Other uses of cash we expect this year include pension contributions and scheduled debt repayments but these amounts remain fairly modest in comparison to the other priorities.
In the fourth quarter we amended upsized and extended our senior credit facility.
We very much appreciate our banking partners' ongoing commitment to Flowserve and look forward to working with them over the coming years.
With this amendment we will have under $1 million of noncash expense in the fourth quarter but we expect rapid payback on this investment.
We believe our capital allocation approach with a targeted debt-to-EBITDA between 1x and 2x provides the flexibility to grow the business organically return capital to shareholders and invest in strategic bolt-ons and will continue to produce solid returns for shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Hamzah Mazari from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on some of these larger projects Mark could you maybe comment on how you plan on balancing taking on lower margin OE work with the potential of potentially getting the lucrative aftermarket revenue stream from that versus just completely walking away from some of these projects? Well I mean that is an essential part of our sales and operation process when we look at a project opportunity.
So to give you an example on 2 different types of projects on a water project where we know there won't be a lot of aftermarket attachment we've got to get our economics in the original equipment bid.
If you look at a project like we did in the Middle East the Yanbu one which was very competitive had little economics on the OE side.
We're going to build a QRC near that facility and be able to harvest the aftermarket for years.
So our process is designed to look at really the long-term economics.
We look at it as almost like investing in a bond.
And you look for the type of returns you're going to get over the horizon of your investment keeping in mind some of these investments will be out there for 20 and 30 years.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then any comments on the uptick you saw in EPD bookings? Specifically just your thoughts around these medium-sized projects beginning to hit versus some of the larger projects that maybe some of your competitors have said have gotten pushed out a bit? Well I mean some of these mediums were a part of very large facilities.
We were just very laser-focused in terms of the type of projects that we took on them.
But the uptick is just that.
It is the early stages of what you're seeing in the project opportunities that are out there.
So this is typically the way a cycle goes through.
The big projects never come as quickly as you'd like and -- but what you start to see are some of the longer lead time more complicated-type products that get put out.
They tend to be smaller orders.
And then you move into the other stages of the projects.
So it's a good -- definitely a good leading indicator as we look at the project opportunities over the horizon.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a last one for me I'll turn it over.
On the M&amp;A landscape any thought process there? You guys have been out of the market for a while.
Has anything that's changed there? No and we haven't been out of the market.
We've -- you haven't seen anything -- we've been fairly disciplined but we're actively looking at opportunities for growth.
Keeping in mind with the opportunities we have organically we're going to remain disciplined and selective in terms of what assets we take on and how quickly we can lever them.
What we look for is something that we can lever on our platform pretty quickly.
If you look at Flowserve we have a very expansive platform a broad product set.
And what we want to be able to do is really take this and drive quick revenue growth and margin improvement when we bring an asset in.
We don't want to spend a tremendous amount of time with complex multiyear integration.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is a question more for Tom than anyone.
When the projects that you're referring to and have been referring to for a while finally start to get released by the OEs onto the EPCs where do you think that happens first? I'm assuming your thinking there is kind of broad-based but maybe more tilted toward North America? Are you thinking it's going to be more tilted towards chemicals? Just give us an idea of how you see the sequencing of this.
Well if you take a look at some of the large projects I mean we're having some good activity now down in the Gulf Coast.
You've seen some of the recent EPC announcements there on some of the ethylene business on the chemicals side.
So my expectation is that's some of the larger projects you'll begin to see in the U.S.
There's also some good LNG activity with the permitting process going on as we look at exporting out of the U.S.
So I would say you're going to probably see some of that and we've already seen some early indications with some of the EPC announcements.
I would also indicate the FPSO activity has been good around the world particularly in Brazil and some of the other areas.
Combined cycle power plants we're seeing a pick up there.
And I would say the pickup is certainly in the Asian region the Middle East.
And we've seen a lot of activity now in that area now starting to come into the U.S.
particularly since the U.S.
coal market is going through some changes at this point in time.
So I would say that the chemical market in particular you'll see the projects see it on the combined cycle power plants certainly the FPSOs and -- what I would say Scott.
Research Division</strong> Great.
This is a question now for Mark.
The increase in your footprint that you're referring to in some of the emerging markets could you give us a little bit more of what you meant by that? Are you talking -- I assume you're talking QRCs but I mean headcount where is it going when is it coming? No it's actually manufacturing facilities so that we can bring product to market in those locations.
So in China we're actually building our third manufacturing facility there.
It'll be complete.
We're actually opening it next month.
In Coimbatore we're going to open our third block of manufacturing in that area.
So we'll have multiple facilities.
The significance of that in terms of growth Scott is that that's how you access those markets is you -- with local manufacturing local sourcing.
So when we think about how we enter into an emerging market the first thing we think about is how we're going to migrate products over into that market.
You got to create the manufacturing to do that because they'll only let you import for so long.
And also you need to be competitive.
So what that means in terms of this capacity there first and foremost is it's going to give us more penetration a better competitive footprint in those markets to grow the business there.
We've got a lot of opportunity in China in terms of being able to grow that business.
And then ultimately these facilities the secondary benefit is they help support our operations around the world in terms of LPO/SPO so that we can drive our manufacturing costs down.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's nothing incremental versus what you guys have been doing.
I guess I thought that you meant something new on the board for QRCs.
You're not saying that? No these are manufacturing facilities what I was referring to.
And the term is "must be present to win " in these regions of the world.
And we're expanding our presence not only physically but in terms of the products that we offer in those markets as well.
Now on the QRC front those are very much driven by where the capacity that needs either physical capacity support or human support and that's where we basically will put those resources.
So when you're looking over in Asia you're talking about Malaysia and certain parts of the region there even Vietnam where they need support we have been adding QRCs in those regions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question.
This is kind of back to Tom and you and I talked about this at the Analyst Meeting.
I just -- you guys continue to show this resilience in your power business that's not really being seen on the certainly on the manufacturing side or the generation side I should say by others.
You alluded just now to at the end of your comments that the U.S.
business you're kind of seeing what everyone else is kind of weak.
What are you guys doing differently today or is it just that your footprint is able to garner new business.
But you guys have been outperforming that market now for probably 2 years I'd say.
What is it that you're doing there that is really kind of enabling that? I mean -- Scott I mean I think the #1 thing is we've got a very diversified portfolio not only of products but of assets on the ground in order to service those markets locally.
So I would say that that's one of the biggest things.
The other thing I would say is that we have been active obviously in India and China and that coal market is still doing pretty good there.
The nuclear market we've maintained as we've discussed before all of our certifications over the years even though that that market has been going through some changes.
So as those revamps and upgrades have now switched on the nuclear side from all the new builds that they were going to do maybe to those revamps and upgrades recertifications we're right there with our assets to be able to do that.
The solar market we're still seeing the solar market being active in Spain and Africa.
And obviously we have facilities there.
And then lastly even though the coal market is going through some changes on a worldwide basis and we're seeing some aftermarket pressures certainly in the U.S.
on that we see a pickup on the combined cycle power plants coming because of the low cost of natural gas.
So I would say it's a diversification of our assets and products and some movements in the markets as I've indicated.
So Scott one thing to add on if you look at one of our presentations from a couple years ago we said our business is linked to global secular trends around population growth.
With the broad product opportunity around the world what it allows us to do is to tilt into those secular trends as opposed to what may be a more episodic trend.
Our next question comes from Mike Halloran from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So first on the margin line obviously really strong performance there.
Could you just talk about your view on the sustainability at these levels particularly EPD FCD where there was some very strong leverage that you saw in the quarter.
Anything to suggest that on a forward basis this isn't a pretty good base to build off of? You know me Mike I won't guide specifically on margins.
But go back to our statement that we made at the beginning of this year around propensity in our business.
And I think an important message here not only in terms of what you're seeing in the financials but our ability to compete for opportunities going forward is the platform is improving.
And so what you are seeing particularly in EPD is that we've seen some of the facilities start to execute better not all of them.
Some of the facilities are starting to execute better which helps them penetrate the customers better.
And then you add to that good fixed cost leverage on the SG&amp;A line and that's what drives margins.
So despite the fact that gross margins had decreased we get good operating leverage on SG&amp;A.
And that's the way that business is.
Keep in mind a lot -- just -- if you take a step back and think about where a lot of the costs in a long project are embedded in cost to sales in the gross margin line because you allocated to the specific project.
Turning to IPD what we are pleased with is that we saw good gross margin improvement which is reflective of the improving operations.
It didn't get the fixed cost leverage because on the sales side that was expected.
Our priority with IPD has been improving the platform.
Because if you grow a business when the platform isn't ready for it it's tough.
You let your customers down.
We've seen that movie.
So now what we're focused on in IPD is driving growth in that business so that we can continue to get the operational leverage in the gross margin line but to start to cascade it on the G&amp;A line.
They've been very good with costs.
And then on the EPD [ph] line I think the way to think about that business is as I mentioned that business has been performing at what we think is a very high level for a number of years.
It's had the benefit of processes that we're putting in place across the company for many years and that's why you see it operate so strong.
So that's probably the way to think about the business.
And then overall the last remaining thing in the P&amp;L is if you look at in a sense the corporate line is that we just need to be disciplined and diligent as we have over the couple of years of controlling corporate costs.
Those are things that we have direct line of sight to and are within our control.
Mike to a question we had earlier the improving platform and the margin power that we can deliver does help us participate at good levels in the project opportunities that are going to start coming up.
Now we will remain disciplined because you live with this backlog for a long time.
If you think about it the backlog the duration in our backlog last year to this year has decreased significantly and the economics has improved substantially.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
That was the color I was looking for there.
And then 2 related questions one what does the utilization look like now through the portfolio at least generally? And then second when you think about the throughput in the operational improvement initiatives you guys are pushing forward in the platform you obviously said it's stickier at some places than others.
How far down the road would you characterize the process is today? Well I mean we're all -- especially with the capacity that we're adding we're always looking at how we optimize our capacity at a holistic level and we'll always continue to do that.
And that may be what products do we put into some of our mature market facilities that we can leverage the LPO/SPO strategy? So we're adding product capabilities through R&amp;D and development.
But we also look at as we've done we consistently are looking for how we improve it in those facilities.
I think in terms of the operational improvement we still have probably 2 or 3 years to go to get to where we expect this company to be.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then the last one is could you just talk a little bit about industry pricing dynamics how much stability that you're seeing there? Obviously internally you're doing a lot better job of being more selective but how does the landscape look beyond just what Flowserve's doing? Well I think there's -- as I mentioned there's the external and the internal.
The external is -- is you anticipate with these projects the first one to come out tend to be competitive.
Because as we've had this discussion everybody's anxious to see these they want to grab them when they -- when these opportunities come out.
So that's the external force.
What will happen though is over time with the cadence of the projects as they come they tend to become less competitive.
They're still competitive and they were competitive in '08 as well.
I'm not suggesting they're not.
I think the internal thing is equally important.
Our ability to compete.
There's still a lot of leverage we're pulling in this business to make sure we can drive our efficiency to much higher levels which enables us to certainly compete better.
And I think that's a good example when I went back to IPD.
Getting that platform improved helps them compete better and it's the same thing in EPD as well.
What we've seen is the good consistent performance in FCD has enabled them to really compete well and respond well and drive growth.
So those are the aspects of competition.
We're operating our business if it's going to remain competitive because good competitors out there what we see in a lot of the competitors that you are certainly familiar with is I think they're driving discipline as well.
A lot of things we've been talking about we hear them talking about as well which is not a bad sign for our industry.
But these first projects will tend to be competitive.
And our next question comes from a Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> I just want to touch on EPD specifically on the OE part of the business.
I guess the one thing that really kind of stuck out to me today was how strong the OE sales were in the quarter.
And you did have very strong orders in the quarter as well but kind of looking over the past year I mean the order profile has not been that strong.
I always kind of sense EPD being a fairly long-cycle business 12 to 18 months from order to delivery.
And so the Q3 results really does not reflect that type of pattern.
I'm just curious is there a shorter-cycle complexion to the business that maybe I'm just missing? Can you -- if you could touch on that that would be helpful.
Over half its sales is aftermarket.
So -- I mean we need to always remember that that over -- and that's a very very short-cycle business.
So you've seen that consistent growth in the aftermarket.
And while it's not double-digit order growth and sales growth year-over-year it is very high margin.
So it has great contribution to the gross margin and to the operating margin line.
LLC</strong> Right.
But Mark I was specifically referring to the OE part of the business though kind of comparing the trailing 12-month sales order profile versus what you did in sales in the quarter on -- specifically on OE.
It just does not kind of jive with what we've seen -- jive with the patterns on the order front.
And I always got the perception that it was a long-cycle business.
So the performance you had a year ago would be kind of showing up today.
Well a couple of things the duration of their backlog as we moved it out has certainly shortened.
So fair to say that the long-cycle nature as we've taken some of these legacy projects out has certainly become shorter.
They do have some shorter OE run rate OE business absolutely in the business.
But I think that's part of what you're seeing is the -- and now some of these medium-sized projects come in in the order book.
So I think as you look at that the long-cycle nature of that business is working through the cycle going back to 5 years ago right? They were heavily loaded with long-cycle backlog coming into 2009 and 2010.
It was high-priced.
That carried them and their margins for a number of years.
Then there was still long-cycle business at that point in time and -- but it was -- the economics were significantly different from the '08 time period backlog and that's starting to run through as well.
We had quite a bit of that in the backlog last year.
So that's starting to run through right now.
But with their improved execution and some of the opportunities that we're seeing they're starting to fill that backlog back up.
The difference is it's better quality it has better economics and we're executing on it better.
Did that answer your question? LLC</strong> Yes.
But just kind of looking -- maybe taking a step further I know you don't want to give 2014 guidance but kind of looking at the order trends in the first half of 2013 on the OE side I mean you were down between 10% and 15%.
I mean conceptually are we thinking that the EPD OE sales could kind of level out over the next 12 months even though your order profile continues to improve? Yes you're right I don't want to give guidance but I think you hit it on an important trend.
We were sitting here in the fourth quarter of last year and if you looked at the prior 3 quarters of sequential bookings they were down.
And go from that point now you look over the last 3 quarters sequential bookings have generally been up and the same thing is in EPD as well.
That's a good sign for sales growth opportunities in the future.
But you're right I don't want -- we don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
We typically put out guidance right at the beginning of the year.
And our next question comes from Charlie Brady from BMO Capital Markets.
Let's talk about IPD for a second.
I guess you touched on this a little bit in a prior question or an answer to a prior question about the growth platform.
But I mean you're talking about it on a 300 400 basis points upside over the next couple of years from where we are coming out of Q3.
And I'm just wondering if you can maybe -- what are the growth initiatives that get you to that kind of -- what is significant upside in the margins over a relatively short period of time? Well the #1 initiative is and continues to be improving execution.
A lot of the IPD business is short cycle.
And if you can't take care of your customer where [ph] they'll go somewhere else.
So that's definitely been the #1.
We wanted to get this thing improved before we started to grow it.
That was a priority.
Now we're turning our sights definitely to growth.
So when we look at opportunities product development one of the areas that we expect to see growth in is remember we talked about the ISO chemical pump some other product development areas one of the questions earlier was on inorganic opportunities.
Some of the assets out there you see could fit into this segment fairly well.
But the key is going to be around execution because if you respond very quickly to a customer they need it and you can actually get some power -- pricing power in doing that.
So it is and has been around execution.
Some of the -- we have actually in a sense given up some growth to prioritize execution over the last couple of years.
But I think now we're in a good position to drive it.
Okay.
And just to one of your points on the inorganic growth opportunities.
So as you look out into that pipeline are you saying that there are acquisition opportunities where the margin profile of those potential deals would be margin-accretive to IPD when you roll them in? That's a good premise.
We look across really many of our segments in terms of many of our business platforms so we just don't isolate it to one.
I was just responding to your specific question about IPD.
But that's absolutely the case.
What we want to do is -- margin accretion is important and everything like that but our primary premise on looking at an acquisition is getting an internal rate of return.
And generally we like 15% or greater which ultimately should correlate to margins over a period of time.
But as you know sometimes certainly with purchase price accounting it takes a while to get there.
But we look in terms of internal rate of return in the business.
And so what we wouldn't want to do in IPD is something that we think has good margin improvement opportunities is to pass it up just because it won't get us the margins we need next quarter.
That would be playing it too short term.
Okay.
And if we just look at EPD for a second and a little bit back on the prior question about the OE orders which were up pretty strong.
I apologize if you covered this already can you give us a sense of kind of end market of where those are coming out of and duration of the OE orders that you took in the third quarter? Or when they'll ship? Sure sure.
I mean the concept of run rate business and we talked about a medium-sized order really correlates to duration.
So it's fair to say that you compare year-end backlog to where we are right now the duration is shorter especially as we moved some of what we called legacy and past due backlog through the system which I can assure you has -- had very little economics to it.
So the point to that is we're still in what I'd call more of a shorter-duration-type booking environment but we'll expect the longer ones to start come in.
Yes I would also add on the EPD side I mean just looking at some of the industries the chemical bookings were very strong.
The oil and gas bookings were also up.
We had the power bookings if you take a look at the -- we actually had -- the power bookings were up because of some desal projects that we're working on.
And then if you looked at the regions with the exception of Latin America all the other regions were also upping the business.
And the other good thing on the large projects is we're also seeing good FEED and pre-FEED activity on the large projects.
So we're continuing with that trend.
The EPCs are in there with the FEED work.
We're also seeing now some of that FEED work result in bidding opportunities where the EPCs are now winning those larger projects and going into the bidding stage particularly in the oil and gas as well as in the power stage.
And our next question comes from Jamie Sullivan from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question on refinery maintenance.
You mentioned that that's been deferred.
When -- in a typical cycle like this when margins are strong for them what -- when would you usually see that come back? Is that sort of a next year event when you would see that activity pick up? Well I mean there's -- weather especially in the Gulf Coast region isn't a factor like you'd see in other areas where they have to do their maintenance during -- like in the power industry they have to do it in the cool spring or in the fall.
But basically what you see in this industry is when margins expand out they want to refine as much as they can because -- and that's their opportunity.
So what they'll try to do is push out the times where they ultimately have to take it down.
They can only go so far because the highest cost to them is if something goes wrong if something breaks down in the facility.
So -- and again what you've seen right now with oil costs had come down a little bit especially in the Midwest that's going to push their margins up a little bit.
So they'll continue to try to push this maintenance as long as they can but it's really going to be more site-specific.
There are certain critical points where they won't go past in terms of maintenance because then they run the risk that the facility shuts down on them.
But in general what you see is when refining margins gap out spend will get deferred.
And we've been living with that for a couple of quarters now.
As Tom mentioned on some of what you've actually seen we've been able to grow our aftermarket bookings despite the fact that some of the U.S.
fossil power plants have been shut down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And then on SG&amp;A I know your target out for 2015 is in the 18% range I think.
You're getting great leverage there.
Is the 18% sort of a long-term kind of run rate for the model? Are you starting to see more structural leverage maybe from some of the initiatives you've been putting in place over the last year or 2? I think in general what you've seen to this point is a shift not a change but a shift in the culture.
And these things take time.
It can often be humbling in these roles to know that some of the changes you make take years to do.
So we've seen some of that I think really getting down into some of the initiatives.
We'll start having these opportunities over the next couple of years.
But it's really reflective we think of driving a change in the culture executing some initiatives but investing in the business.
So what -- companies can drive these things down to very very low levels if they're willing to compromise some opportunities some high-return investment opportunities in the future.
We don't want to do that.
So when we look at that objective we took into consideration the change in the culture driving some initiatives the benefit of One Flowserve which helps us leverage our G&amp;A but also where we wanted to invest.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then one last one on cash flows showed some improvement there in DSOs.
Can you maybe give us some more details on how you've been implementing those improvements so far kind of what we might look for over the next 2 3 quarters in terms of implementation process or milestones? And maybe if you could add some color on the inventory turn side specifically with OE starting to pick up and how we should think about that? Jamie it's Mike.
I think we're pretty pleased.
Again I think as Mark said it's certainly a shift in the culture and we're not there.
We're in the implementation phase.
As you know last year we spent a lot of time kind of assessing the situation and so now it's implementation.
And so as I've said before the easy part has been completed which is the assessment.
So now we know what we need to do and now we're in the implementation.
But it's a big network.
We've got a lot of locations out there.
So I think you'll see incremental improvement and that's why we set long-term goals.
We're probably a little bit behind where I thought we would be probably 1.5 years ago when I set these targets.
But I do see some of the culture starting to shift and I see the importance that both the financial organization and importantly Tom Troop's [ph] operational organization is putting on on working capital and managing that working capital.
So that's really what it's all about.
It's process and procedure and culture changes that we're doing both on the receivables side as well as the inventory management side.
We're getting guys in from all part of Tom's operations involved both from the procurement side doing a better job of on-time procurement.
We're getting project management folks involved on that as well.
And also it's really throughout the organization and all.
So I don't think you'll see a sea change quarter-to-quarter but what we're hoping to see is incremental improvement quarter-to-quarter over the next 1.5 years or so.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering what's your base case assumption around when you'd see book-to-bill for the company start to more notably expand beyond 1x? And is that literally Q4 Q1 or is it more kind of mid to later 2014? Steven nice to meet you.
I think we met you one time before.
We don't go -- being not a quarter-to-quarter business we don't go specifically and give book-to-bill or any kind of bookings guidance in the business.
I think if -- just to help you understand growth opportunity in our business frankly if you look at the backlog at the end of 2011 it was higher than the backlog at the end of 2012 and yet we've been able to grow in revenue -- grow revenue this year.
This is the issue of the duration of the backlog how long it is down [ph] there and how long it takes you to roll through your P&amp;L on the revenue side.
So a lot of our backlog now has a shorter duration shorter cycle.
And we're pleased with the earnings trends over the last 3 quarters.
So it's a good way to think about our business.
And when we start booking these projects especially the big ones you do take some POC revenue on some of them.
So you get the benefit of some of them as they start to come through but they'll tend to hang in your backlog a lot longer.
That's why we've been so focused on the growth of our run rate business and our aftermarket business.
So hopefully that can help you think about how we think about growth overall in this business.
I think from an earnings standpoint what we don't want anybody to underestimate is our contribution rate of an incremental dollar revenue to the gross margin into the operating line as well gross profit and operating line as well.
So with the improving operations with our cost controls we're able to drive growth in our earnings.
This year it's been multiples of what you've seen in the revenue line.
So hopefully that helps you think through this in our business because what -- the duration of the backlog is how quickly it'll convert into revenues.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's very helpful.
And in terms of just understanding lead times a little bit better because you referenced some of the U.S.
Gulf Coast petrochemical awards that have already been made at the EPC companies when do those start to hit your order books and -- or those of your competitors? Well it depends.
In the competitive landscape it depends on the lead times required for the products.
So there are some products in a large refinery so gas compressors which have a much longer lead time and some of our products as well.
Even within our product spectrum we have different lead times.
Often we talked about the valves tend to be some of the shorter lead times in these.
So it's really going to be dependent on the products relative to our industry.
The complex equipment tends to be more early on in the project because they require long lead times of manufacturing.
Having said that what we've been focused on and this was my comment earlier about our ability to compete and respond is we saw it happen in the pipeline industry in 2011 and frankly we didn't fully participative to the level we wanted to because of lead times.
The shorter lead time on the margin got you the project even with some pricing power.
So we're taking the approach that we're not going to rely on lead times in and of themselves to take care of our business.
We're going to drive for the shortest lead times possible to be responsive.
I will now turn the call back over to Jay Roueche for closing comments.
Thanks Paulette.
Again we very much appreciate everyone for participating in today's call and for your interest in Flowserve.
If you have any follow-up questions please don't hesitate to call Mike Mullin or myself.
And operator we've now concluded today's call and thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Flowserve's 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Adrienne and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I'll now turn the call over to Jay Roueche Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in today's call to discuss Flowserve Corporations' financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2013 which we announced yesterday afternoon in our press release and Form 10-K filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
Before turning the call over to Mark I would like to remind you that this event is being webcast and an earnings slide presentation is available both of which are accessible through our website at flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
An audio replay will also be available on our website approximately 2 hours following the conclusion of the live call.
Both the audio replay and the slide presentation will remain on our website for a period of time over the next few weeks.
Finally please note that today's call and the associated earnings material contain forward-looking statements that are based on forecasts expectations and information available to management as of February 18 2014.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
As such we encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release and slide presentation as well as in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-K filing for the year ending December 31 2013.
All of these documents are also accessible on our website in the Investor Relations section.
Finally please note except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of today's forward-looking statements.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Overall I am pleased with our operating and financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2013.
Our employees remain the key to our performance and we are all committed to delivering value for our customers and shareholders.
We are One Flowserve continuing to build on our performance culture and challenging ourselves to consistently exceed our customers' expectations.
Considering our results announced yesterday we're essentially in line with the upper end of the range we provided a few weeks ago.
Today I will speak more to some themes and major strategies we've implemented their impact on recent results and our expectations for improving performance in future periods.
For several years now we have focused on operating and financial improvements within the 4 walls of Flowserve and that work continued in 2013 and will remain an area of focus in 2014 and beyond.
These efforts have generated substantial returns with strong contributions to gross profit and operating income driving the third consecutive year of double-digit EPS growth.
One of our early internal strategies was One Flowserve.
I have regularly referenced it but its ongoing importance shouldn't be overlooked.
As a pure-play Flow Control company we increasingly recognize synergies between our segments and product offerings.
Our progress and opportunities include: better utilization of our global network of Quick Response Centers offering our full portfolio to key common customers; measuring performance metrics consistently across the organization; implementing best practices and operating with common processes; and leveraging our corporate functions and centers of excellence like R&amp;D and supply chain.
While the propensity for further operational improvement remains our progress on this initiative has already resulted in strong earnings leverage and margin expansion.
During the year our end markets experienced low but accelerating growth and we remain confident that capacity expansion in the energy markets is on the horizon.
By geography we remain encouraged in North America both for original equipment and aftermarket.
We saw several North American projects awarded to EPCs for chemical and LNG projects.
This movement is a good leading indicator for our original equipment work.
The North American aftermarket was sluggish in 2013 as refinery maintenance delays served as a headwind to the region's aftermarket work.
However we do expect a return to more typical maintenance schedules this year and the announced activity along the Gulf Coast supports this view.
Europe continues to demonstrate stability and indications of modest growth.
Assuming currency and political stability Latin America should see increased infrastructure spending over the next few years.
In Russia and the Middle East investment to expand diversify and update their capacity is needed and we've seen a few larger projects move into the buy phase for our products in the Middle East.
Macro-growth in Asia is expected to continue and our objective is to increase our presence.
In all regions similar to prior cycles we see the early project opportunities as very competitive.
Another strategy of initial focus is our discipline around the bidding process.
Here too we have made significant improvements to ensure that the new work maintains or improves the quality of our backlog.
Even as we've experienced a soft multi-year cycle for large project work the results of our improved bidding discipline are evident in the higher-quality backlog rolling through our 2013 results and are demonstrated by our strong fourth quarter bookings growth and really the order levels we achieved throughout the entire second half of 2013.
As a result the quality of our backlog is better today than it was a year ago.
In particular our run rate original equipment bookings have grown nicely and created a stable higher-margin sales platform along with our aftermarket franchise.
Given that anticipated large project activity did not materialize into orders during 2013 our efforts to increase this run rate business delivered solid overall original equipment bookings growth.
From an aftermarket perspective we delivered strong fourth quarter and full year bookings.
Despite a decline in our largest aftermarket region North America the overall level of bookings further validates the actions we've taken on our strategic localization initiatives which facilitate our customers achieving increased uptime and efficiency from their process equipment.
We also continue to invest in our end-user strategies to better serve our customers including the opening of 2 new QRCs.
I was also pleased to see FCD deliver 9% bookings growth and increase sales in the aftermarket area.
It demonstrates another example of the benefits of our One Flowserve Flow Control platform.
Our efforts growing the run rate original equipment business and the aftermarket franchise delivered on the mid-single-digit revenue growth guidance we issued originally in 2013.
This modest top line growth combined with an improving backlog and solid operational execution produced meaningful margin expansion.
A key to our 2013 progress included IPD's 12.2% operating margin a 180 basis point increase from the 2012 levels.
This improvement keeps IPD on pace towards its 14% to 15% operating margin target by the end of 2015.
With its platform strengthened our focus now turns to growth in IPD.
Our goal of consistent business growth and operational excellence to drive value is core but it also dictates that asset optimization remains a key priority.
We took a number of actions in 2013 including the first quarter's joint venture transaction in FCD as well as this quarter's realignment investments which will generate quick returns and more efficiently utilize our assets.
In addition we continue to target inorganic bolt-on acquisitions.
In the fourth quarter we complemented our pump portfolio with sealless pump technology through the acquisition of Innomag.
Similar to prior bolt-on acquisitions we targeted a technology gap with the opportunity to leverage the acquired products across our worldwide sales organization and capture the aftermarket opportunities of a previously underserved install base.
The operational excellence initiatives we've implemented over the last few years are central to this bolt-on strategy as we have increased our capability to efficiently manage and integrate bolt-on opportunities.
Even as more and more parties have become interested in the Flow Control space we believe our disciplined approach to M&amp;A is effective for Flowserve our customers and shareholders.
When evaluating investments which include organic growth initiatives divestitures realignment initiatives or acquisitions we operate our business with an owner's mindset to drive long-term shareholder value.
We remain committed to disciplined capital allocation returning value to our shareholders within an efficient capital structure including our targeted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1 to 2x.
During the year we returned $535 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and took advantage of attractive debt markets to obtain low-cost longer-term capital.
Turning to 2014.
I am encouraged for this year and beyond.
While I am pleased with the progress we made in 2013 our ability to build on the operating momentum we've achieved over the last several years is substantial and I believe tremendous propensity remains.
We continue to expect significant investment in new capacity in the energy markets but we'll focus near term on those items we can impact.
We believe we have further earnings opportunity through improvements in customer service on-time delivery low-cost sourcing reduced cost of quality and working capital improvement.
We will continue to build on our $2 billion aftermarket franchise while growing the run rate original equipment business.
We will invest in our people and advance our culture of performance.
In summary we expect to profitably manage and grow our business to create long-term value for you our shareholders.
Now let me turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I am also proud of the operational progress we made in 2013 and over the last few years.
Our operational strategies and initiatives including One Flowserve focus on the customer disciplined process improvement and performance culture have driven synergies across our segments.
The result of these initiatives are evident in our strong operating performance which drove impressive gross and operating margin expansion for 2013 in spite of a lower aftermarket sales mix headwind.
Our disciplined investment in the operating platform are delivering returns and demonstrating improvements in a number of areas including quality with over 2 100 CIP trained employees supply chain our focus on the customer through our project manager process our aftermarket service capabilities product innovation and our research and development process project pursuit including sales proposal initiatives the new sales organization and focus on our global customers and our asset utilization through our lead product and secondary product centers.
Our central focus is developing a culture of performance that consistently delivers notable results.
I am confident that propensity remains for an ongoing operational improvement.
Opportunities remain to pull levers previously outlined and others across our broad product geographic and industry exposures.
Last quarter I highlighted the reduction in our past-due backlog metric as we drove it to the lowest quarter end levels since 2009.
This solid performance demonstrated the impact of our ongoing operational excellence efforts.
However in our continuous improvement culture we recognize that our work is never complete.
I am pleased to report that during the fourth quarter we made further advancements and reduced our past-due backlog percentage to near best-in-class levels at year end.
This performance helped drive the related increase in inventory turns and generated real cash flow improvement.
It also showed that by focusing on and managing key performance metrics we can achieve significant progress.
Similar opportunities remain in other aspects of working capital such as DSO and I am confident that with our continued focus on the process and the tools we provide our people we will make solid progress in 2014 and beyond.
Turning to our order activity we remain optimistic.
Strong fourth quarter bookings were up over 17% year-over-year on a constant currency basis with growth in all regions including notable activity levels in Asia Pacific.
Europe appears to have stabilized in 2013 and we delivered bookings growth in that market for the first time since 2010.
Original equipment orders were up over 23% on a constant currency basis as momentum in all of our segments improved.
Consistent with the rest of the year the impressive fourth quarter OE bookings did not benefit from the anticipated larger project activity but was a result of our focus on run rate work.
This improvement in OE run rate environment over the second half of 2013 combined with the EPC awards we have seen are positive indicators that the market is turning.
We remain confident that a number of large projects that are building in the pipeline and we look for the pace of awards to increase through the year.
As we have emphasized the first few larger project opportunities that we have seen were competitive both in price and terms.
And we expect the first phase of these projects to remain so.
Our approach to bidding however will remain disciplined as we expect order momentum to build.
Flowserve is also able to focus the customer on the benefits of our technical capabilities on-time delivery performance and localized presence.
Our disciplined approach to project pursuit and bidding that we have deployed over the last 2 years has proven successful and it remains critical to the overall quality of our backlog.
Now summarizing our end markets.
The oil and gas market remained strong with current oil prices and the positive long-term outlook supporting major investments.
New refining capacity investments are expected in the Middle East Asia and Latin America.
Additionally Kuwait's long-delayed Clean Fuels Project has recently been awarded to EPCs.
North America continues in the strong growth in pipeline construction refinery upgrades gas processing and gas-to-liquid plants to capitalize on advantaged natural gas and oil supplies.
Longer term opportunities in Mexico should improve following recent policy reforms expected to increase production levels.
From an aftermarket standpoint we expect increased activity in the Gulf Coast following refinery maintenance deferrals over the last 12 to 18 months.
The chemical market also remains strong and the outlook is very positive as plans for new ethane capacity in the Gulf Coast advance.
The announced level of North America shale gas-related investments is impressive valued at over $70 billion.
And the majority of this capacity is destined for ethylene and ethylene-derivative projects as the U.S.
has joined the Middle East as a low-cost feedstock leader.
The Middle East is continuing their efforts towards downstream diversification while Asia and Latin America are reassessing the chemical development plans based on continuing opportunities in the U.S.
Moving to the power market.
We see it as growing driven by fossil-based initiatives in China and India.
The Middle East also signals strong future growth both in conventional and solar power.
North America and Europe remain slower due to conservation and low growth in energy demand.
While nuclear power remains in transition we see continued development in China and discussions of new capacity in some regions of Europe.
Additionally opportunities continue in upgrades uprates and recertification of aging existing plants.
Finally we see an increased focus globally on natural gas combined-cycle plants with U.S.
expansion potentially negatively impacted by pipeline constraints.
Our general industry markets continue to see high activity levels in global fertilizer projects.
Mining companies are investing more carefully of late but we continue to experience good levels of activity in parts of Southern Africa Latin America and North America.
Finally our distribution business primarily valves continued its solid performance with increases year-over-year.
Wrapping up our operational progress over the last 2 years is significant.
Following the strong finish in 2013 I look forward to 2014.
Encouraged by the propensity for the organization to continue this momentum make further operational progress deliver on our quality backlog and capitalize on expected opportunities as support from our end markets accelerates.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Mark and Tom have pretty well covered our operational overview and business outlook so I will discuss our financial results in greater detail and then provide some color on our 2014 guidance.
We finished the year strong with sales of nearly $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter.
We grew revenue by over 5% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year constant currency revenues increased by 5% or right in the middle of our 2013 revenue guidance range.
Turning to margins.
Even with the 2% mix shift towards original equipment and realignment charges fourth quarter gross margins improved 20 basis points from the prior year to 33.9%.
Excluding the impact of realignment the improvement was 60 basis points compared to the prior year.
For all of 2013 we delivered a gross margin improvement of 80 basis points despite a 1% OE mix shift.
Excluding the impact of the fourth quarter's realignment charges and cost of sales gross margins improved 90 basis points.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
For the full year it increased 10 basis points as a percentage of sales to 19.5%.
However looking at it more normalized it was down 30 basis points after adjusting for the fourth quarter's discrete charges and the $14.3 million of SG&amp;A benefits in 2012.
This is an area we have focused on and we are pleased that over the last 3 years our normalized SG&amp;A spending has remained pretty flat.
We believe opportunities remain in the system.
And as such we'll continue to work towards our goal of an SG&amp;A percentage of 18% over the next few years.
With gross profit improvement and our focus on SG&amp;A we delivered a 110 basis point improvement in operating margins during 2013 to 15.3%.
At this level we achieved the goal we set in early 2012 for a 150 to 250 basis point margin improvement by the end of 2014 from a 2011 base.
However we still have this year remaining in our goal timeline with continued opportunity for further improvement so we're not done yet.
Finally our fourth quarter tax rate was 25.9% which was lower than our previous expectations as we were able to realize the benefit of some favorable resolutions of tax items.
Our full year rate of 29.5% however was generally in line with our initial tax rate guidance of 30%.
Turning to cash flows.
We finished the year strong as is typical with the seasonality of our business.
We generated $378 million in operating cash flows in Q4 bringing our full year cash flows from operations to $488 million.
While I am pleased with the cash flow generation for the year and the quarter we still stay focused on this area.
Our goal remains to consistently generate free cash flow near our net income level.
Our 2013 CapEx was about $139 million north of our rate of depreciation as we continue to invest in organic opportunities for the long-term growth of our business.
During the year we invested in: new capacity in China a new facility in Brazil expanded capacity in India the Americas and Europe new QRCs and expanded nuclear capabilities to name a few.
Finally we continue to execute on our strategy to efficiently utilize the balance sheet while at the same time pursuing profitable growth investments and accretive bolt-on acquisitions like Innomag.
We returned over $535 million to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases during the year and issued $300 million in long-term notes in the fourth quarter as we maintain our targeted debt-to-EBITDA ratio between 1 and 2x.
Turning to working capital.
As Tom highlighted we made good progress on inventory.
We continue to reduce our percent capacity backlog and drove inventory turns to 3.5x a solid improvement over prior year's 3.2x.
While we delivered year-over-year DSO improvement in each of the first 3 quarters during 2013 the fourth quarter was flat with prior year at 75 days.
I'm disappointed in this pause in our progress but I remain convinced we have the right plan and people focus on driving improvements into the mid-60s.
We continue to deploy CIP assets across the business to evaluate and improve our processes.
I'm confident we are taking the necessary steps to achieve our working capital goals and look forward to return to meaningful progress in 2014.
Moving to our 2014 outlook and EPS guidance.
We are reaffirming our 2014 EPS guidance of $3.65 to $4 which we originally issued a few weeks ago.
Similar to recent years 2014 should reflect traditional seasonality with earnings weighted to the second half of the year.
Absent any transactional gains such as those that benefited EPS in the first quarters of 2012 and '13 we would expect over 80% of our full year 2014 target range will be generated during the final 3 quarters of the year.
In addition we will continue to execute on our strategy of efficiently deploying capital including annually returning 40% to 50% of our running 2-year average net earnings to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
At year end $384 million remained available under our current share repurchase plan authorization.
Earlier this week our board approved a 14.3% increase in the quarterly per share dividend further emphasizing our commitment to shareholders.
This represents the fourth consecutive annual double-digit increase.
This year we expect to invest $130 million to $140 million in capital expenditures to continue profitably growing the business organically and to further increase our capabilities around the world.
Lastly I'd like to remind you that we will host our Analyst Day in Raleigh North Carolina on March 26.
This year's event includes a tour of our large engineered valve manufacturing facility in that city and we look forward to seeing many of you there.
Please reach out to Mike or Jay if you're interested in participating and haven't received an invitation by the end of this week.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
Operator we have concluded our prepared remarks this morning and would now like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Charlie Brady from BMO Capital Markets.
I just want to focus on the industrial products for a second.
And the margin performance there was certainly better than we were looking for.
You called it out in one of the -- on slide on the segment.
I wanted to just get a little more granularity on where that business is going.
You're moving up you're getting pretty close to your target there.
Do you see a runway beyond your initial target? I know you don't put guidance out there right now but can you give us a sense because it sounds like you're getting there a little maybe quicker than certainly we thought you were going to.
How much of that we saw in Q4 is permanent? How much of that maybe was driven by seasonality factor? Well first of all Charlie I'm glad to be on this side of this conversation because 2 years ago we were telling you it was going slower than we anticipated.
So it's been pretty much in line.
And you as you know our focus has been on fixing this platform.
So it's fair to say we have not run it as quickly as we could have because it wasn't where we needed it to be.
And then the second thing is when we get this thing to '14 to '15 then we can talk about where from there.
We just -- we're focused on getting it there first.
Q4 you can see in many of our divisions typically you get good fixed cost leverage.
It tends to be our highest volume on the revenue side.
So that will tend to benefit margins during that period of time.
So it's really better to look at just the annual margins in terms of improvement because we do have seasonality in our business.
If you think about it we ship to a lot of national oil companies parts around the world where they have annual budgets and they either get the equipment in at the end of the year or they basically start all over.
So that's what drives the seasonality.
But we are pleased with the improvement.
It was one of the reasons we were encouraged and brought Innomag into the platform because we think it's not where it needs to be but it has certainly improved.
And the other thing I can tell you and it's very basic to our business margin is an indication of how well we're executing or not executing for that matter.
And when we execute well our customers give us more orders.
So what we're doing now is we're focused on growing that platform.
All right I guess -- I mean look kind of on the back of that.
I mean the Q4 bookings were up pretty strongly.
If you can kind of -- and maybe you could do this for all 3 of the business segments your top line guidance of 3% to 6% for the year can you give us a sense of kind of in line above below across the 3 segments? Well we don't break our revenue down by segment at all Charlie.
So let's just stick with the 3% to 6% across the board.
I think the areas of focus that we talked about over the last couple of years and it's pretty consistent is our valve business has been operating very well and we're really driving for growth.
And even last year how do we optimize and better penetrate the markets.
On IPD there's still some improvement.
We want to drive growth.
On the EPD side we're really focused on growing that aftermarket platform and the run rate and being very disciplined on these projects.
And what I mean by that just to give you some color and I've made this comment before you go back to 2010 and your focus was on absorption because you didn't know when your markets were coming.
As we start to see them come you can be much more disciplined and focused on making sure your backlog continues to progress over the period of time especially when you have the run rate and aftermarket business that we do.
It gives you the opportunity to be a little more flexible as to when you take these projects in.
So as you think of our 3 platforms solid operating consistent operating business on the valve side driving for growth the same thing in IPD and maintaining discipline in the project business in EPD and really all of our projects but driving that aftermarket growth.
And we have Hamzah Mazari from Crédit Suisse on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> This is Flavio I'm standing in for Hamzah today.
You guys touched a little bit on this on the EPC side and on Middle East as well.
If you could give additional color on your visibility on the larger projects.
And maybe any single timing about enrolling for bookings or any additional color on that? Yes.
Well around the timing I mean we've been talking about these project opportunities since 2013.
And so what you see is with the size and complexity of this and I think you're hearing this from EPCs what people are doing is measuring twice and cutting once before they execute on these.
They are going to move forward with them and I think you consistently see that terminology when the awards are going to the EPC firms.
But from us again they can move quarter-to-quarter.
And so what we're talking about from our end is staying focused on growing aftermarket run rate business make sure we're very disciplined because when these cycles come as you saw back in 2006 '07 and '08 they're here for a period of time.
And what you want to make sure is that when you're in that cycle you don't have things in your backlog that you felt that you had to take at unfavorable economics.
So that's the way we're approaching these cycles.
Again what I made in my initial comments was we -- if you think about the project business really with the exception of the Middle East a little bit in '10 and '11 it's been fairly soft since the middle of 2008.
And the fact is with cycles is they go down and they go up.
We're due for an upswing.
You're hearing it from EPCs you're probably hearing it from our competition as well.
When it will materialize on what day or what quarter can move especially as these things are very large and complex.
But we're confident it will come.
Until that point we're going to continue to do what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> That's great to hear.
And just as a follow-up.
If you could give us some detail on how pricing is doing right now and if you guys have a long-term outlook since that the industry is a little more rational right now post acquisitions and maybe with the impact of larger projects absorbing some capacities.
Just some color on pricing.
Well I think our comment was that in the big projects is certainly remain competitive.
This is what you see on the front end of the market.
Our competition is very good.
It's very capable.
And so they're seeing exactly the same thing.
So it's really more looking at our industry.
As these projects come in and capacity starts getting allocated to these project the next thing that we'll tend to drive is price to a certain degree and then lead times in the business.
But frankly really lead times are the last thing that owners want to push out.
They want to get these facilities up and running.
The longer they take to put together to assemble and ultimately commission the more cost attached it.
That's just the way it is.
So price tends to come in first.
But if price starts to get a little out of whack what they will do is start extending lead times.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
That's helpful.
And just as a final question a little more on the modeling side.
What are you guys thinking about assumptions on FX and the impact of devaluation we had last year which is baked in your guidance range? And if that affects the way you're looking at emerging markets are at all or not? Yes.
I mean our guidance assumes basically FX neutral from what we said.
So I mean just depending on where that goes it could be headwinds or tailwinds.
But it's basically based on an FX neutral basis.
And we have Scott Graham from Jefferies on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So I do have 2 questions for you.
The one I think is an easy one and we flushed most of this out last night with your guys.
But the backlog being down on a year-over-year basis for 5 straight quarters Mark Tom the bookings have been kind of sluggish up until the fourth quarter.
Is there anything more we should be reading into the backlog decline? Or is it more that just the last 6 or 7 quarters before this one where things were a little slow? If you look at our bookings trend actually they trended down towards the end of 2012 and then trended up over the last 4 quarters.
I think one way to look at our backlog and our comments around past due and legacy if you look at our original equipment backlog end of '12 and end of '13 if you take out the legacy and past due actually original equipment backlog would have gone up.
Keep in mind past due and legacy backlog typically it doesn't have any profit doesn't have an economics to it because my comment around lead times and everything by that time if it's past due the economics are usually gone.
And actually there's a cost associated with it.
So if you look at our OE backlog absent the legacy and past due it actually went up year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
I had a feeling that that's what it is.
And also your focus on higher quality projects and all that dovetailing into that same thing.
Next question was really about SG&amp;A.
And I think it was Mike that mentioned the goal continues to be 18% of sales.
How much does the move of the EPD margin -- I'm sorry the IPD margin to your goal? How much does that net you in SG&amp;A benefit toward that goal? Well if you look at the results over the last couple of years they've done an excellent job of really controlling those costs and holding them relatively flat.
I think as you look at our SG&amp;A to achieve our objectives Scott a lot of the opportunity will be in the EPD side.
Because while typically the gross margins in large projects because of the way they're bid and everything are less than run rate and less than aftermarket they are large dollar amounts and you get good fixed cost leverage on the SG&amp;A line.
And I think you saw that a little bit in the third quarter of last year where we had the good leverage on the G&amp;A line in the EPD segment.
So that's one that's more what I would call just the way financial presentation is.
When you got strong top line growth from projects even though the margins on big projects are less you do get fixed cost leverage on the G&amp;A line.
In IPD what that SG&amp;A has been really on very very good cost control which is what you do when you're fixing the platform is you reassign those costs to their more optimal use.
And that's what they've been doing.
And on the FCD side just a solidly run business.
So you want to see SG&amp;A grow but not as quickly as the top line because what you're doing is you're adding sales folks.
They've been adding aftermarket capabilities.
So that's the way to think of SG&amp;A across all 3.
And then I think you and I had a discussion about this 8 years ago.
I mean on the corporate line it's just staying focused that we hold those costs as constant as you've seen we've really done over the last 4 or 5 years.
That's your SG&amp;A story.
Research Division</strong> So it's really not a cost cut thing it's more of a kind of maintain it where it is and let the revenue bring it down on a percent basis.
Yes and no.
I mean believe me there's a lot of activity going on underneath that number where we are adding costs on the R&amp;D side and taking cost out.
So it's fair to say we are cutting costs in certain area.
We don't go into them specifically.
But we -- we're not in an environment where you saw back in '08 where our markets are going away from us and you don't invest in any future because you don't know when it's necessarily coming and you just cut costs.
I think it's been more we have taken some costs out but we have certainly invested in our R&amp;D platform and other things as well to drive growth.
Research Division</strong> All right that's great.
I do though have one last question if you don't mind.
No.
Research Division</strong> When we X out the charge this quarter from cost of sales it looks to me like your gross margin was up about roughly 100 basis points on a year-over-year basis.
I just kind of wondering if you can give us something specific great but just sizes of the buckets would be helpful.
How much of that 100 basis points in gross margin was mix versus One Flowserve with Tom Pajonas head -- manning that how much of it was operating leverage? What items went the other way? Could you give us some ideas on what those buckets were and their sizes? Yes.
Actually mix went against us right? So you had a shift to more original equipment.
And I think we talked about this years ago.
If you look at the margin differential 30 bps is probably a good proxy for what a 1% move in mix means either way if you just think about the margin differential.
But I would say it's mostly really attributable to One Flowserve because what you haven't seen is necessarily big absorption gains that you see -- that we saw in 2008.
You saw a lot of price and absorption during that period of time.
That comes -- that is also a benefit when you get projects in as you absorb your factories better.
But I would attribute it really to the One Flowserve and the efforts around that.
And in that is going to be of course improving and improving is the operative word execution the quality of the backlogs some of the things we talked about around the discipline the focus on the run rate business.
So that's really what's been driving it.
And we have Mike Halloran from Robert Baird on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So on the call it the run rate business obviously a lot of focus has been on when these large projects are coming out.
But that run rate business is a large chunk in your portfolio from the original equipment perspective.
Maybe you could try to frame up what the opportunity looks like on a forward basis just in terms of how much replenishment opportunity is there from underinvestment and what some of the internal focuses have been to help drive that business high over the last couple of quarters? Well I mean Innomag is a great example.
That's -- those are basically sealless pumps.
They apply to the chemical industry.
And they're just -- think of them as smaller projects replacement OE.
You know ever to a certain degree the MRO as we call it on the valve side that when one fails or needs repair they just replace it.
So there's been a lot of focus on that.
And that's where we really focus and we have the opportunity to improve our distribution channel.
So that's one of the things that we are really starting to put some effort in right now to drive that run rate business as well as Tom alluded to one of the things we did last year is we're putting additional focus and resources and structure around our sales organization to create the right incentives for folks to really go and drive some of those smaller opportunities because if you think about any organizations where there's large projects history indicates that the sales organization is typically tilted towards the big projects because that's the larger dollar amounts that's where you can fill your quotas quicker.
So what we've been doing is focus on our channels to market both internal and external to drive that.
But I will go back to some of these things.
Execution remains a key because if you're replacing a piece of equipment they need it on time and if they don't they'll go to somebody else.
So a lot of these things we've been doing have been trying to drive that business.
And I think part of it around the sales organization that I talked about is just create a culture that recognizes and rewards that.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
And then on the aftermarket side obviously healthy growth there.
Comps were a little bit easier.
But just curious if there's any change in your shifting dynamics there in terms of your ability to go out and capture non-Flowserve aftermarket business.
Or conversely if you're seeing any increased competition of folks trying to come in and capture your stuff.
The competition has always been there.
We've got as I said good competitors.
They have service capabilities.
We maintain still the best opportunity out there is going to be the customer is to do the things like we did in the Dow Benelux a little over a year ago is to go and get those mandates those opportunities to help them with their uptime.
I think the only trend I talked about in my comments that we saw last year was some sluggishness in North America which is one of the bigger aftermarket regions.
And we have Nathan Jones from Stifel on line with a question.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> If I could just focus in a little bit on the CapEx side.
Your CapEx numbers have been pretty elevated for quite a number of years now.
And I understand that's investment in organic growth and take great returns in there.
Can you talk about how much further opportunity there is to continue to invest in -- at elevated levels in organic growth? Yes Nathan this is Tom.
I would say there's a lot of opportunities on certainly the CapEx supply to R&amp;D in terms of selling materials and coatings diagnostics.
We do a lot of efficiency CapEx also in our plants relative to the equipment.
We spent a lot of time on making sure that our safety numbers are also -- are world-class.
So we invest consistently in that particular area.
In addition we are continuing to add ERP systems as we look at centralizing more -- some more of those particular areas and also business intelligence CapEx in the business.
And I would say we still continue to have a lot of opportunities in the CapEx area with that $130 million to $135 million spend that we've been able to maintain over the last couple of years.
So Nathan one of the things to think about with the exception of safety which we think has an infinite return we look for a 15 plus internal rate of return on our capital expenditures.
So be it a new facility in China and India which we opened one last year and we'll open one this year Brazil was in 2012.
The QRCs that we've added.
So we've added hard assets to drive revenue.
When we look at some of the things that Tom talked about in terms of R&amp;D we're looking to invest in these to drive revenue and growth and we expect a return on them.
So I think your way of looking at our capital expenditures is the levels we spend it indicate the level of opportunity we think we have to provide that in excess of 15% internal rate of return to our shareholders.
Again save [ph] and except safety because safety is good business.
Yes Nathan the other thing to keep in mind is we talk about this a lot I mean I'd say well north of 50% of that's been rated is really growth related.
So from that we have pretty minimal what I'd call kind of maintenance capital requirements here at Flowserve.
So always think of sort of a large piece of that as growth related.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> That's good color.
On the past-due backlog where are you at with that now? And is it possible to quantify what the margin impact was in 2013? Well as Tom talked about we're near what good levels will be.
I mean there's still opportunity for improvement in the past-due backlog.
And I think we talked about levels that were 7% plus at one point in time and we were closer to 4% at year-end.
So we saw good improvement there.
There's still improvement -- opportunity for improvement.
I think the way to think about it is that's typically business that has little or no gross margin associated with it.
And so there's still the SG&amp;A component to it.
So the -- specifically quantifying the margin I honestly don't have those numbers with me right now.
But they do have a margin impact year-over-year.
We saw it from '12 to -- '11 to '12 and then '12 to '13.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So it will obviously be a tailwind for '14? Yes we still had some past due and legacy backlog in 2013.
So part of the opportunity in '14 is we cleared a lot of that last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
And one quick one for Tom Pajonas.
Could you just talk about what activity you're seeing in the pipeline markets specifically outside the U.S.? I would say certainly the U.S.
is probably the most prolific in the pipeline area right now.
But good pipeline activities still exist in Russia as well as in China.
So those are the I would say the 2 primary areas.
And to a lesser extent but still there in Latin America.
And we have Andrew Obin from Bank of America on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just a question in terms of just backorder growth -- backlog growth.
We've been getting calls from investors concerned about slowdown on CapEx oil and gas CapEx.
The fear is that this is somehow going to be a replay of what we've seen in mining.
And I was just wondering how much visibility do you have in terms of your bookings growth throughout 2014? And just the second question is we have been hearing from some oil and gas equipment companies that they do actually expect maybe a pause in orders in 2014.
And how does it relate to your business which I understand is a different business but still we'd love to hear what you think about it.
Well I mean when you look at the oil and gas industry for us a lot of what we do is supporting existing capabilities.
So our run rate and our aftermarket business which represents about 80% of our business.
In terms of the new projects that you're seeing out there I mean you've heard the commentary around the energy market LNG chemical is energy as well in my view because of the feedstock is going to be natural gas which leads to the pipelines and other production capabilities around that and also around the world.
I mean when you go and look at areas around the world and there was some commentary even Tom made some of the infrastructure needs to be upgraded and repaired.
They are still adding some capacity in different parts of the world.
Low natural gas and oil production in the United States.
So it depends on what the oil equipment is.
But ours is kind of -- if you think about Flow Control it's really basic to a process.
So some equipment may be a marginal enhancement around the process or a specific complex application which could be marginalized for a short period of time.
But when you look at ours ours is very basic to core of the process itself.
So when we see these facilities come on or the pipelines being built we know that's going to create demand for our product down the road.
I'll just add one -- just add a few specifics on the back of Mark's comments.
I mean there's a lot of activity in LNG in the U.S.
and Canada.
We've spent 5 project in Canada alone 4 in the U.S.
that have been granted licenses out of about 20 proposed export terminals.
So that looks pretty good.
And this whole area about LNG and transportation business could create opportunities for natural gas in North America.
European refineries are going through some changes right now on that side of the business.
But as the other question came up on the pipeline the pipeline growth is pretty good in the U.S.
Russia as well as China still.
And we're still seeing good Middle East oil and gas.
Brazil offshore oil and gas.
And Russia oil and gas business in general.
So we've got projects out there in the oil and gas side.
And you've heard some of the EPC comments from some of their investor calls they've got good order growth on the oil and gas side also.
Research Division</strong> And just a question just a follow-up on in terms of M&amp;A.
You have been more rational than some of your competitors in terms of what you guys are willing to pay.
Do you feel you're at a disadvantage with your more disciplined approach and just more -- a little bit more color on the M&amp;A market just given how excited people are about Flow these days.
Right well I mean we're disciplined I wouldn't necessarily say more rational.
Think about some of the other transactions that have occurred.
I mean they've gone to financial sponsors hands and the financial sponsors have the opportunity to use leverage and to drive return.
So for them that's very rational.
Some of the strategic moves over the last couple of years have been some assets that have traded hands because they needed that product base that platform.
So it had strategic value which encouraged them to pay a higher price.
I certainly can't argue with that.
When we look at M&amp;A opportunities one thing to keep in mind is we have a very broad product portfolio set.
So what we're looking to do is fill in between those opportunities and that will also dictate ultimately the price that we pay for it.
But for any company if it's strategic and you can create the type of returns that make sense for your shareholders then you'll pay that appropriate price for that.
And for those that are really looking to focus and get into the flow control industry to them that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> Then can you feel you can operate to pretty low in this environment and still be able to source quality deals? Yes we definitely do.
And we have Steve Fisher from UBS on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> As you guys think about 2014 which of your initiatives do you expect to produce the most incremental improvement be it on-time delivery cost of quality low-cost sourcing? It sounds like past-due backlog has already had the biggest incremental impact or a big one.
So what about the rest of them? Well I mean it's -- there's a lot of ones that have ongoing benefits.
I mean I think the improving execution you're seeing we still don't have all of our facilities to where they need to be.
Some of them have quite a bit of work to do.
And that not only provides opportunities in terms of efficiency or margin improvement in that facility but also you'll find customers willing to give more work when they can execute well.
And then the other thing is depending on market dynamics I mean we may pull different levers.
So I don't want to just say this is what is set on stone right now to what we're going to do and we're not going to change course.
But going back and I hate to give you a broad answer but it is really the way we think about these things.
Kind of our suite of One Flowserve initiatives that we put in place that type environment that type of culture takes really years to build into a business.
We're only 2 years into it.
And we're starting some other initiatives as well.
So what I'd say looking broadly is I think the focus on the 4 walls was a big contributor last year and it's certainly going to be a big contributor this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it sounds -- it doesn't sound like your approach to selectivity changes in 2014 versus what it was in 2013.
But I guess to what extent do you expect the need to be selective to change in 2014? My comments earlier is you're always hopefully selective it's just what are you choosing against? And my remarks earlier around 2010 you're selectivity was focused on absorption because a large engineering facility that isn't absorbed can get very very expensive.
So your selectivity and your variables that you look at around do change over a period of time as you move into what are you seeing market opportunities coming for a period of time.
And remember the projects -- I'll just go back and you don't have the benefit of history but some of the projects we took in '06 '07 '08 lasted in our business in some form or fashion all the way almost to 2011.
So when we are selective we need to think multiyears in terms of how this thing is going to play out.
But I think now where we are what we talked about is making sure that we're maintaining or improving our backlog that we are where we are need to be and that is be aggressive where we see a good long-term aftermarket opportunity where we can take advantage of our LPO/SPO strategy where we've got a good relationship broad relationship with a customer across our 3 platforms and we want to make sure we really leverage it those are going to be the variables that come in around selectivity.
And we have Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research in line with a question.
LLC</strong> So I just want to actually come back to I think it was a question that Andrew asked about just kind of concern about oil and gas CapEx and how it might relate to pricing.
So you discussed some of the large projects were very competitive at the very start which is not very surprising.
But how much do you think that is coming from project to owners just being a lot more concerned about what they're paying for equipment and spending on their projects wanting to get the most bang for their buck just given that there are I guess more constraints on CapEx than there had been before.
Well I mean I think that's issue we talked about.
It's not just a concern in general it's the size and complexity of these projects.
They want to make sure -- you used the term getting the most bang for their buck.
I mean keep in mind at times that's lowest cost and particularly you see a lot of that in the Middle East.
But in other parts of the world that's around efficiency making sure the process conditions are right making sure you have the right support long term.
So what I want to suggest is they are certainly competitive but they want to make sure that you can deliver a quality product on time because they -- in the world you may pay less for a piece of equipment but if it doesn't work it is worthless to you.
So I think you're absolutely right is what they're seeing is the size and complexity of these projects and they're just being very thoughtful.
They need them they need the infrastructure but they're just being very thoughtful and that's what tends in these cycles to kind of push things out.
What you saw -- the reason it ran up so quickly so fast back in '07 and '08 is you all of a sudden saw all the material cost and all these commodity costs spike so quickly.
And what was happening during that period of time is these folks would budget these projects at X and the next time they went through a budget effort not too long afterwards it was 1.5 2x.
And so they had to rush to market because they were concerned that 2x could go to 4x.
And you saw that with kind of the commodity boom at that point in time.
And this one what you're seeing is the commodities are elevated.
Certainly oil is.
Commodities justifying spend and infrastructure.
But they can certainly be very thoughtful.
That's not a bad thing for our industry because when you see a spike up like you saw a number of years ago they start splitting orders.
It -- they start extending lead times.
Those -- that's how the market responds.
So we see a fairly orderly move is for everybody.
Do we all wish it would have been sooner? We certainly do.
But we also understand why these things take time.
Meanwhile as we made in our comments what we're going to do is continue to focus on what we can.
The 4 walls driving the run rate driving the aftermarket business which has really been the primary contributor to our earnings.
LLC</strong> Fair enough.
And just on the projects that actually have been led from the EPC perspective.
Obviously they are fairly large.
And I think you can argue on average they are larger than what we saw last cycle.
How quickly do you think that will absorb industry capacity among your peers and start to make it a more attractive kind of good process for you to get involved? Yes that's a good point.
It depends on the pace at which they come and the lead time.
I think what you'll see is they're going to try to keep the lead time short so that the project costs don't increase.
And I think as these projects start to roll and we've seen some they've certainly been competitive more recently.
But it doesn't take too long for the industry to try to allocate the capacity.
Having said that we've added capacity in certain regions of the world.
A lot of that to address the opportunities there.
But still that represents capacity under our LPO/SPO we can use around the world.
So it's -- I think it's a little bit of -- it's a broader market than it was 6 7 years ago because your buyers are now stronger in China and other parts of the world.
And so it's a broader base that's going to drive the spend.
But I think as you see this what's going to happen is they're try to keep their lead times down and that will start utilizing our industry's capacity.
It really depends on the pace at which they come on.
And I would add to that.
I mean you basically are going to look at 3 areas as Mark has kind of already alluded to you always look at the engineering area.
You look at the supply base and you look at the construction piece.
Depending on regionally how things are concentrated you could have overcapacity in any one of those or under capacity.
So it will depend -- the goals are the generally 3 areas that are indicators for you.
LLC</strong> If I could sneak one last in just for Mike.
So just on the working capital initiatives.
With a large cycle in front of us obviously that would typically require working capital build not a reduction.
So how difficult is it going to be to achieve your targets over the next couple of years given the cycle is really only just starting? Yes.
Brian a lot of that just depends on how well we do on the front end.
I mean a part this whole front end project when we talk about our selectivity and discipline not only is it relates to the margin in the project it also relates to the terms and conditions.
And part of those terms and conditions is -- are the cash flows associated with those projects.
So it's on us to do a good job of negotiating those terms upfront to make sure that these large projects require advanced procurement that we say at worst-case even cash flow.
So that's something that Tom's group and the legal group have done of great job on putting some new initiatives in place as we look to these projects.
And also working with finance and operations and legal.
We'll work hard to make sure we try to get terms that are agreeable to both us and the customer.
And further that just to be clear.
I mean our goal is to have an improved working capital efficiency platform versus the last cycle.
But to your point when the cycle builds depending on how quickly it does it tends to tap your balance sheet.
And then when the cycle turns down as you saw in 2009 it'll tend to liquidate.
But -- and you saw that in the last cycle.
But I think what we want to make sure as clear is we want to have a more disciplined efficient process relative to the last cycle.
And your last question comes from Chase Jacobson from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Can you just remind us on these big chemical projects what the lead times are what the normal lead times are and how long it takes from the time of award until we start seeing the revenue hit the income statement? Yes if you take a look at let's say some very large projects if you define it that way from one EPC gets an award to one.
Flowserve gets a PL could be anywhere from 6 months to 1 year.
And then on these very large projects if you're looking at a pump it could be 18 to 24 months between PO and shipment.
Keep in mind also that depending on the job you also may be doing percentage of completion accounting so that you are taking revenues and operating income through those projects if it's percentage of completion.
That then varies depending on when you go to medium then those things coming down by 30% 40% on the medium projects.
But that's the order of range that we talked about on the very large projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So based on that and looking at some of these ethylene projects and when they're expected to start up I know you guys have been talking about having visibility into them for a while.
But it seems like they should be coming pretty soon.
You also talked about competition.
Are you aware of any of these that have already been let to any of your competitors? Or they're still all out there as a Flowserve opportunity? Well just to give you some maybe specifics.
In Q4 alone there have been several ethylene projects that have been announced one in Baytown Texas one in Louisiana one in Ingleside Texas and another one Point Comfort Texas.
So we're starting to see these ethylene projects in the U.S.
come pretty good.
And again you're beginning to see other areas on the oil and gas side worldwide.
Some of the big EPCs have announced projects now in Kuwait and Oman.
You've got some desal areas.
I know it's not chemical but again we're starting to see some of those announcements come out and then you can add onto that the timeframe that we just gave you on the large projects for when we -- potentially if we're successful winning the bid could see those projects.
So I mean they do take a while to come to us.
What you typically see are some of the longer lead items that go out first.
They get bid first.
And for us the pumps are in the middle of the way and the valves come afterwards.
And then the other -- your other question is we have we do and we will continue to always have competition out there that will be bidding on projects as well.
We have now reached our allotted time.
I will now turn the call back to Jay Roueche for final comments.
Again we thank you all for participating in today's call and for your interest in Flowserve.
We look forward to seeing many of you at upcoming investor events including our Analyst Day.
If you have any follow-up questions or were left in the queue please call Mike Mullin or me.
And with that operator we have concluded today's call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche.
Mr.
Roueche you may begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you participating in our call today to discuss Flowserve Corporation's financial results for the first quarter of 2014 which we published yesterday afternoon through our press release and Form 10-Q filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Chief Operating Officer; Mike Taff Chief Financial Officer.; and Mike Mullin our Director of Investor Relations.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
Before turning the call over to Mark I would like to remind you that this event is being webcast and an earnings slide presentation is available both of which are accessible through our website at flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
An audio replay will also be available on our website approximately 2 hours following the conclusion of this call.
Both the audio replay and the slide presentation will remain on our website for a period of time over the next few weeks.
Finally please note that this call and the associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements that are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of April 23 2014.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
Therefore we encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release slide presentation and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-Q filing for the period ending March 31 2014.
All of these documents are accessible on our website under the Investor Relations section.
Finally please note except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of today's forward-looking statements.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our operating and financial performance in the first quarter.
We met our expectations for the 3-month period which provides confidence in our 2014 guidance.
I appreciate the commitment and dedication of our employees.
They have continued to embrace our performance culture initiatives while increasing their focus on exceeding our customers' requirements.
These efforts evidenced by our notable operational improvements enhance Flowserve's ability to capture the expected growth provided by accelerating market demands and aftermarket opportunities.
EPS of $0.78 increased over 16% versus last year's first quarter.
While Mike will discuss the details of our financials in a moment I would simply add that our core business delivered and is demonstrating the improvements in our operating platform necessary to support anticipated revenue growth.
Bookings of $1.2 billion increased slightly over last year driven by strong aftermarket growth of over 8%.
Aftermarket bookings of $517 million were at a record level for the period and highlight the success of our ongoing commitment to end-user strategies and supporting our customers.
Our original equipment bookings were again driven by the recurring short cycle run rate business which continues to provide a solid foundation of profitable work.
Although we bid on a few larger projects during the quarter these initial opportunities were competitive as expected.
We remain disciplined and selective and continue to believe our shareholders will be rewarded by this approach over the cycle.
With the anticipated ramp-up of energy-related projects particularly in the Gulf Coast we believe there is ample opportunity for near-term bookings and revenue growth on the horizon.
Additionally I would like to highlight the IPD segment.
Over the past few years it has delivered on its commitment to improve the operating platform and is now shifting focus towards higher growth.
As evidence of this progress IPD's bookings grew over 10% year-over-year demonstrating its operational progress and customers' increasing confidence in its capabilities.
These solid bookings produced a quarter-end backlog of $2.7 billion level with a year ago but significantly improved in terms of quality and past due levels.
Compared to year end backlog is up over $130 million or 5.2%.
Despite traditional seasonality Flowserve again demonstrated the strong leverage that exists in the business driven primarily by improving execution as well as focused cost control and modest aftermarket mix shift.
Gross margins improved across all segments including an impressive 280 basis point increase in FCD.
Last month we dedicated significant time during our Analyst Day highlighting the operational improvements that we have implemented over the last few years.
This quarter strong gross and operating margins are a direct result of these initiatives.
However I want to emphasize again that significant propensity remains to further enhance our business.
And even as we prioritize increased growth we will continue to focus on the customer and improving key metrics.
Turning to our end markets.
Several project owners have made final investment decisions on large infrastructure investments over the last few quarters which is encouraging.
A number of these energy-related projects have already been awarded to EMCs and we are currently bidding on many of them.
Our visibility into the progression of similar projects as a move towards final investment decision provides us additional confidence in an improving cycle.
By region North America shale production continues to support investment in chemical and oil and gas projects.
Ongoing efficiency investments in Europe's infrastructure drove modest growth over the last year.
We continue to pursue opportunities in Asia Pacific and aim to further increase our presence and market penetration in that region to support growth.
Middle East investment is expected to continue as they look to capture more the value in downstream products although it remains the most competitive market.
And while political and financial instability in Latin America pose some challenges their efforts to increase production should provide opportunities over the coming years assuming these issues can be managed.
In addition to expected near-term organic growth in our core end markets we also continue to target technology product and geographic additions through strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
Our disciplined approach towards these opportunities requires rates of return that add value for our shareholders.
Likewise we take the same disciplined approach when evaluating our existing portfolio.
If an asset is not performing to the level we expect serving a key market or providing the appropriate growth opportunities we will either take the necessary actions to correct it or divest the business if another party values it more highly.
Our recent divestiture of Naval a noncore district heating valve asset is a good example of this approach in action as we regularly evaluate our assets based on rates of return and strategic fit to drive value for our shareholders.
As we look forward to the remainder of 2014 I am confident that our actions over the last few years have significantly improved our operations and ability to support customer's requirements.
As a result Flowserve is now well positioned to take advantage of the growing energy markets we see ahead.
So with that overview I will turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results have us well positioned to deliver on our full year 2014 targets.
As we have discussed and detailed late there remains substantial opportunity within the business and we continue to focus on improving our operations.
Our goal is to better align our processes with our customers' expectations as we prepare for the improving growth expected in our key energy markets.
These customer focused initiatives include: Continued localization strategic initiatives to drive enhanced customer focus raising the bar on our performance culture and building the project management expertise that complement our strong product manufacturing culture and processes.
All of these efforts should enhance our flexibility and enable Flowserve to adjust to the changes in our markets and customer requirements.
The first quarter results again demonstrated the projects we have driven within the 4 walls of Flowserve.
Despite lower revenues we increased gross margins and delivered solid flow-through.
Our improving execution and operational metrics combined with disciplined cost control and leverage resulted in strong gross margin performance in each segment.
In particular SEB's notable 280 basis point improvement was impressive and included a favorable mix of product shipments to the power and oil and gas markets.
IPD continued its steady operating improvement and is achieving progress toward this targeted 14% to 15% operating margin goal by the end of next year.
The improvement in this segment has increased our ability to meet customer expectations and their lead times which drove a strong 15% increase in the original equipment bookings and prepares it for expected accelerated growth.
EPD delivered a 6.3% bookings increase on a constant currency basis driven by strong aftermarket bookings from increased activity in the Gulf Coast and Europe.
As many of you know this segment has the greatest exposure to the larger project activity that we anticipate to build as the year progresses.
As we have discussed previously these initial larger projects are competitive in both price and terms and we have experienced these conditions on recent Middle East projects.
However we maintained and we'll continue to pursue our disciplined approach.
We will focus the customer on the benefits of our key differentiators including our technical capabilities on-time delivery performance the total cost of ownership and our localized presence.
This approach will continue to support the quality of our backlog.
Summarizing our end markets.
Oil and gas remain solid considering current oil prices and the positive long-term outlook.
These factors support major investments.
We expect new refining investments in the Middle East Asia and Latin America but somewhat at the expense of European refining capacity.
North America continues its strong growth in pipeline construction refinery upgrades gas processing oil sands development and gas-to-liquid plants to capitalize on advantaged natural gas and oil supplies.
Additionally continued opportunities exist in liquefied natural gas facilities particularly in the U.S.
Longer term opportunities in Mexico should increase following the recent policy reform intended to increase production levels.
From an aftermarket standpoint maintenance activity has increased in the Gulf Coast and Europe as expected from the lower levels we have faced since the second half of 2012.
We are also beginning to see aftermarket benefits from the Yanbu project booked several years ago in a very competitive market.
The chemical market also remains strong and the outlook is very positive as new capacity investments in North America continue to advance.
The first quarter included equipment awards for the first ethylene project in the Gulf Coast.
Announced North American shale gas related investments are impressive valued at over $70 billion.
And the majority of this capacity is destined for ethylene and ethylene-derivative projects considering the U.S.
has now joined the Middle East as a low-cost feedstock leader.
In the Middle East their efforts towards downstream diversification continue while Asia and Latin America we assess the chemical development plans based on competing opportunities in the U.S.
Moving to the power market.
We expect growth.
China India and Russia continue to pursue fossil-based projects.
The Middle East also sees growth both in conventional and solar power.
North America and Europe however remains slower due largely to conservation the lack of a consistent energy policy and modest energy demand drivers.
However the low price of natural gas should drive the U.S.
combined cycle market.
Nuclear power remains in transition but we see continued development in China Russia and South Korea and discussions of new capacity in some regions of Europe.
Japan is even considering restarting up to 1/3 of its idle capacity.
Finally natural gas combined cycle plants are a global opportunity although U.S.
expansion could be impacted somewhat by pipeline constraints.
Our general industries markets faced challenges in the first quarter as mining companies cautiously evaluate the projects based on concerns of oversupply.
Global fertilizer projects remained on track; and our distribution business primarily valves continued to produce solid levels in the first quarter driven by the oil and gas markets.
Wrapping up we have delivered significant progress in our operating profile.
And while we will continue to drive further operational improvements our focus is on growth and building on a culture of performance that consistently delivers results.
However I am also confident that the propensity remains for ongoing operational improvement improving our flexibility pulling various operating and growth levers and increasing our ability to react quickly to opportunities across our broad product geographic and industry exposure will continue to position Flowserve as the value-added supplier of choice.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
With our operational overview and business outlook well covered let me discuss in greater detail our financial results for the quarter.
We began 2014 with a strong operational performance and are well positioned to deliver on our guidance for the year.
First quarter EPS increased 16.4% to $0.78.
Included in EPS is $0.03 per share of net benefits.
As we discussed in the press release this amount is comprised of a $0.05 gain on the sale of our Naval district heating valve business partially offset by combined $0.02 of realignment charges and below the line currency expense.
Excluding these items and the $0.03 per share net benefit from discrete items in 2013 EPS increased 17.2% year-over-year.
As expected the first quarter reflected typical seasonality with revenues down 2.6% or 1.3% on a constant currency basis.
Even so we delivered improved gross margins across each segment through strong execution a higher quality of revenue continued emphasis on low-cost sourcing and a 1% mix shift towards aftermarket.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Our results demonstrated focused cost control.
As reported SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was down 120 basis points.
2 items skewed our results including the $12.6 million net gain on the sale of a business in 2014 and $1.7 million of joint venture transaction fees in 2013.
Adjusting for these items SG&amp;A expense declined $4 million year-over-year.
As we have indicated our longer-term goal is to achieve full year recurring SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to be consistently in the 18% range.
We've made substantial progress over the last few years and opportunities clearly remain.
Progress will ebb and flow quarter-to-quarter since even as we lower cost in some areas we're also making strategic investments in others to improve our platform.
For instance over the last year or so we've invested in quality and project management programs and personnel increased research and development spend and reorganized our global sales organization.
To be sure our end goal is not only focused on dollars spent but also increasing our capabilities efficiency and productivity.
We will continue to further optimize SG&amp;A in this manner over the next few years.
On a reported basis operating margins were down 10 basis points to 15.4%.
However excluding the discrete items we previously discussed operating margins increased 120 basis points year-over-year to 14.3%.
Below the line foreign currency had a negative impact of approximately $2 million in the 2014 quarter but it decreased significantly from last year's $11 million negative impact which included $4 million of Venezuela devaluation.
While we continue to monitor this year's developments in Venezuela we have not recorded a charge for any further devaluation.
Our tax rate in 2014 first quarter was 26% and was lower than our previous expectations due to certain beneficial tax items.
For the remaining quarters of 2014 we continue to expect a tax rate of nearly 30%.
Turning to cash flows.
As many of you know the first quarter seasonally tends to be a major usage of cash and it was again in 2014.
We used about $85 million in our operations during the quarter but that was an improvement of $23 million versus last year.
We also spent another $171 million combined for share repurchases dividends capital expenditures and debt payments while the sale of the Naval business generated cash inflow of approximately $47 million.
In the end we finished the quarter with no borrowings on our corporate revolver and about $165 million in cash.
Similar to the seasonality of our earnings profile we also expect the first quarter to be the trough for cash flow and anticipate much stronger performance during the remainder of the year.
Focus on cash flows and working capital will remain a priority as we work towards our goal of consistently generating annual free cash flow near our net income level.
We continue to execute on our strategy to efficiently deploy the balance sheet and return value to shareholders.
At quarter end we had about $275 million remaining under our authorized buyback program.
Turning to working capital it's a mixed story.
Although DSOs increased 3 days and inventory turns were flat compared to a year ago the combined dollar balance of receivables and inventory was down around $27 million from 2013 levels.
And these items were cash neutral in the 2014 quarter which is an improvement of $43 million versus a year ago.
I remain confident that the working capital initiatives previously detailed will drive improvement in our metrics over the next few years as we continue to target DSO in the mid-60s and inventory turns of 4x to 4.5x.
Moving to our EPS guidance and outlook for the remainder of the year we are reaffirming our 2014 earnings guidance of $3.65 to $4 per share.
We also continue to expect revenue growth of 3% to 6% on a neutral FX basis.
Turning to our spending priorities.
After a couple of years of accelerated returns to shareholders to optimize our balance sheet we expect a return to our stated policy of returning 40% to 50% of our running 2-year average net earnings to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Importantly we fully intend to invest in our business for profitable growth and solid organic returns.
Capital expenditures were $31.7 million in the first quarter and we continue to expect full year CapEx in the $130 million to $140 million range.
These investments include adding and expanding capacity in regions like India and China introducing new products and as many of you saw in Raleigh replacing and upgrading manufacturing equipment.
We believe this dual approach of capital returns to shareholders with organic and acquisitive investment in our business will provide Flowserve shareholders solid returns over time.
Other uses of cash we expect for the remainder of the year include pension contributions and scheduled debt repayments.
But even combined this amount is modest in comparison to the other priorities.
Lastly I'd like to thank the many of you who attended our Analyst Day in Raleigh last month.
For those of you who are unable to participate and have an interest the presentation is available on our website.
In the weeks ahead we are planning a fairly active investor relations schedule with investor meetings in Europe scheduled visits to our offices here and a number of conferences over the next few months.
We value our time with the financial community and our shareholders and anticipate there will be several venues available to you ahead.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Thank you Mike.
Operator we have concluded this morning's prepared remarks and would now like to open the call up to any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on maybe if you could give a little more color as to how you plan the balance getting some of these larger projects that are coming in pretty competitive as well as sort of balancing taking a lower margin project in -- and getting the aftermarket for it.
You mentioned Yanbu was pretty low margin but now you're seeing the aftermarket for that.
Do you expect the competitive environment to get better and margins to get less competitive as some of these larger projects come online? Maybe just walk us through what your thought process there is and how selective you're going to be.
Just your question indicates the -- really the -- how we think about it and the complexity.
You're exactly right.
I mean the way we look -- first to the first question what happens in our industry is as capacity starts to fill up then the industry starts to use lead times to the extent they can.
But there's reluctance to do that because time is money on these projects for the engineering contracting firms.
But then the industry also starts to use price to rationalize capacity.
So that's a general theme in our industry.
And when we talked to you back in 2010 you had a number of forces that were really driving a very price competitive market Middle East projects Korean contractors and the like at that point in time.
Setting that aside what we do know is we look at our capacity long term and capacity utilization in terms of potential absorption.
That's a factor you consider relative to where you see in the market cycle.
And -- but you also look strategically at some of these projects.
So if you've got a good foothold on the aftermarket you want to make sure you're very competitive.
Having said that Hamzah I can tell you in our industry a bad project never gets better.
And so one of the things that we're always very careful with because we had discussions with you for a couple of years about past due backlog and legacy backlog that is not a situation that gets better and we think really provides types of [ph] returns for our shareholders.
So we will balance all of that.
And in the meantime what we want to do is to continue to focus on execution because that allows us to be more competitive.
So as we look at these projects we will look over at our capacity over 1.5 to 2 years anticipate how it's going to get utilized look at market expectations around the world because with our LPO/SPO we can move work all around the world and look at the aftermarket opportunities look at other pull-through of products because keep in mind it's not just a certain type of pump that we're seeing there are seals that go with it and there's valve opportunities as well.
And that's how we'll consider the projects.
But at this phase and we talked about this in the first quarter we saw some that were just very very competitive.
And yes that could -- we could have taken a couple of those and those may have changed the comps that we're talking about today.
And that -- while that would change the discussion or the perception of the discussion it really doesn't change the discussion because if those aren't profitable and they go into our backlog but they're not going to deliver value to our shareholders.
So it is a very thoughtful and complex way we do that.
But it's important to know the process we use around One Flowserve really looks across all of our global capacity all of our capabilities our supply-chain capabilities aftermarket pull-through opportunities the other products that we can bundle in and that's how we consider how we want to take a project.
What we don't want to do is fill up our capacity with projects that don't meet our economic requirements.
Long answer to your question Hamzah but I think that's important because just the length of this answer indicates the level of detail and thought we go through when we look at a project.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the answer.
It's very helpful.
On the aftermarket side how much of that growth is just pent-up demand or deferred maintenance relative to just underlying growth that you're seeing within that business right now? Is there a way to parse that out or think about that? On a percentage basis no.
But on a anecdotal basis you heard Tom's comment around what we've seen in the Gulf Coast region with increased maintenance spend.
Over the last couple of years European production process facilities have been holding back on maintenance CapEx.
So some of that is starting to come back online.
That certainly contributed.
Also as we talked about some of the installed base that we put in over the last couple of years is bearing fruit.
And then there's an aspect of it where we're really executing on our end-user strategies.
So if we've talked about 8-plus percent growth in aftermarket and really look at the growth over the last couple of years there's not that much incremental net installed base that goes in around the world at that point in time.
So what that indicates is we're gaining ground executing on our strategies but there certainly will be cycles.
Now what you're seeing with the opportunities in the Gulf Coast region is they're going to start putting money back in the maintenance.
Your next question comes from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
This is Patrick actually dialing in for Charlie.
On the bookings side I was just wondering what was the tenor of that during the quarter? Hold on.
Can you speak up? I can't hear you.
Sorry sorry.
By the way this Patrick dialing in for Charlie.
On the bookings side what was the tenor of that during the quarter? Was there a steady uptake? And I guess also if you can give a little bit more color on the backlog as well how are the margins now say versus 2 or 3 years ago as a result of increased bookings? Yes.
I mean one of the things -- typically we don't really talk about current quarter information.
But in the press release in our commentary we talked about accelerating in some of the activity in April.
Now 3 months in a -- 3 weeks in a quarter doesn't necessarily make the quarter.
But we wanted to give the market an indication of what we've seen.
And I think some of our competitors in our industry have seen is that towards the end of the first quarter things started to pick up.
Again competitive on some of the large projects and that's continued into April as well.
As to the comments on the backlog if you think about it especially on the large projects backlog can be around a while.
We embarked on this journey a little over 2 years ago around being disciplined and focusing on execution and all the processes associated with that.
What that means and has meant is that our backlog has continued to improve over time.
So as we look at this year's backlog and you heard at my comments over the last year's you've seen growth in our aftermarket business.
But more importantly we're not having discussions really now around significant legacy or past due backlog.
And that type of backlog tends to have little or no margin at the gross margin level.
So that can just highlight to you that we've seen good improvement in our backlog.
And we think that's important because not only does it impact margins but it impacts working capital it impacts our customers it impacts our sites it flows through the entire system.
We do still have work to do.
And one of the outcomes over time of this continued discipline and execution will be more efficiency in our working capital.
Got it.
Can you guys -- moving on to the segments can you guys provide a little bit more color on how much the key end markets were up or down relative across the 3 segments? You're going to have to speak up again.
You're kind of drifting on us.
Can you provide a little bit more color on how much the key end markets oil and gas chemical and power gen were up or down relative across the 3 segments? Well I think that what -- we need to look at trends over a couple of quarters because for example the decline in bookings was more focused on our FCD business a very high performing business.
We saw a pretty good level of oil and gas orders last year on some FPSO opportunities.
So when you look at any quarter year-over-year compare you got to be very careful about calling it a trend.
But that's a good business.
It does well.
As we've indicated oftentimes in the first quarter don't read that as the year for that division.
It's executing at a very very high level.
But you'll -- sometimes you'll have some challenging comps.
Generally in our industries we've heard there's been talk around -- certainly around the E&amp;P side in oil and gas.
But keep in mind where we participate.
It's more on the processing side.
And what that means is when you take a hydrocarbon when you take any kind of feedstock and you can process it in a different manner or transport it what you're seeing increasing levels of that benefits our industry.
The other comment on the power side where you see improvement is we've been in gridlock certainly in the United States around fossil-based power plants but they've gone to combined cycle.
You've seen what's happened to the nuclear industry and some signs of life.
As we had indicated years ago that represents 20% of the global supply of power.
There is no way to diversify away from that over a short period of time.
And you look at all the aspects of what's going on around the world in energy security and it's difficult for countries even like Germany that said they were going to exit it and completely exit it now because they're reliant on natural gas from Russia.
So I think it's important to consider there can be pauses [ph] in certain area of the power industry.
But as long as people move to urban areas and there's population growth there's going to be demand for more power.
Jamie Sullivan with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark a question on the run rate OE business and the opportunities there.
Maybe you can just give us your view on that cycle and maybe what the growth of that market opportunity is assuming that these large projects are going to be lumpy and sometimes competitive as you mentioned? Well some of those large projects will pull through some of what we -- more of our run rate products.
If you look at EPD and IPD IPD will tend to benefit from project opportunities because they'll supply some more of the configured order.
I think in general when you see upgrades and retrofits of large and medium-sized facilities and as Tom commented when you see the distribution channel start to take in more inventory during those periods of time and more important Flowserve specific as IPD continues to improve its execution that gives us encouragement in that run rate business.
I think other areas as we talked about -- in Mike's comments he talked about our sales force.
I mean we are making a lot of changes here at the company but one of them is if you think about it companies tend to like to hunt elephants.
Bringing focus and comp plans around driving this run rate business is important as well.
So I think there's market-driven aspects to it.
There is a benefit from project activity.
There's a benefit to aftermarket from project activity because there's I talked about these before commission spares that go with a new project.
So that's kind of the macro outside-in looking opportunity for that business.
I think improving the way we execute into our distribution channel FCD does it quite well.
We can -- certainly we've got room for improvement in IPD as well focusing our sales organization.
Improving execution will give us the opportunity to continue to drive that more of that configure-to-order smaller run rate business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe -- you talked about the IPD the bookings up 10% or so.
I know they had a little bit of an easy comp but you talked about the focus on growth and some success there.
Can you maybe some give us some more details on that maybe how resources are allocated or focused now or initiatives that we don't see outside of the numbers that's making you feel good about the progress there? Well the way it's operating it gave us more confidence on executing on our acquisition of Innomag last year.
If you think about it the one thing you don't want to do is acquire an asset a business for a company that isn't performing at the level it should because it doesn't make things better.
So I think that's one great indication of the way that we're thinking about the business is to bring in more products for them to deliver to our customers.
Another thing that we talked about is just aligning the sales organization and making the investments that we have.
That's one of the businesses where we've made investment on the chemical side to support the ISO standard chemical equipment.
So it's going to be investment in terms of R&amp;D sales organization people talent inorganic investment opportunities as well because oftentimes on some of these bolt-ons those are the type of products those configure-to-order that we can bring in and load onto our platform.
Honestly a highly engineered long cycle piece of equipment we contend to develop ourselves.
And when you go out and make those types of acquisitions you're typically just buying installed base and setting yourself up for an opportunity to consolidate manufacturing capacity.
And I would add to do that that if we look at the IPD business bookings were up in many different areas so not just one.
So chemical was up and GI water and oil and gas.
The only one that was down a little bit was the power business which was expected.
Both the aftermarket and the OE business were up.
And if you look at the regions again it was broad brush up across all the regions with the exception of the Middle East.
So it was a good strength across the wide berth of both region and industries on the IPD side.
And as Mark has indicated just good solid execution on the orders that they were getting in.
The next question is from William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> We know Flowserve's expertise on the downstream market.
Can you provide us an update on what you've seen and some of the initiatives that you're doing on upstream? We've made a couple of comments around our participating in the thrusters for offshore platforms and also FPSOs as well.
So -- and we also provide some of the -- in the firewater pump for some of the offshore platforms.
So if you think about type of rotating equipment opportunities and valve opportunities that's really where we participate on the upstream side.
Now there are things we do near upstream that I would call again like in the tar sands where you're right there proximate to the production facility and there's a pre-processing activity that occurs so that the product is easier to transport as opposed to hauling in large trucks and containers.
So at the wellhead there's certainly some down water injection pumps and things like that where we can participate but it's really going to be around flow control.
And that's our core competency.
And then on the midstream as well and Bill I know you're fairly familiar with that there's -- you have valves.
I mean the Valbart valve is critical on some of the gas pipelines certainly whether it's gas or liquid.
If it's a liquid pipeline you've got pumps that go on it seals as well.
And then if you think about upstream and midstream that means that product is going somewhere to get processed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My second question and I appreciate the color there.
You called out nuclear a little bit.
Can you give us a little color on what is happening on the waterfront? A little desalinization there I know it's a very small piece.
But what are you seeing in terms of some of the projects? Tom.
Yes the -- you want me to cover nuclear or do you want me to cover the water feeds [ph] itself? Research Division</strong> They sort of go hand in hand.
Okay.
Yes in -- well in the Middle East you're right.
The -- I would say the power business and the desal business kind of go hand in hand because they try to put those 2 things together.
Well we are seeing a pickup in the desal business particularly in the Middle East China and I would also add India into that.
We're seeing some -- a fair amount of activity in the water business itself not necessarily desal but water -- I mean the simple business in the U.S.
out of our industrial group.
So as the financial condition changes with some of the cities in the U.S.
they seemed to be moving at some of those projects.
We're also seeing some Latin American countries look at desal as certain countries have mandatory requirements to use desal for mining in order to conserve some of the water supplies because they're having some shortages in Latin America.
So we're seeing some good projects there.
And as you've indicated the power and especially in the Middle East is going along with the desal plants particularly in the Middle East.
Your next question is from Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just first on the capital allocation.
Mark at the analyst meeting you gave the target for $2 billion of growth investment through 2018 on top of CapEx.
You've been through the first quarter.
You were still active with the share repurchases.
Can you update us on the acquisition pipeline? Yes.
It's active in terms of some of the smaller opportunities that you see out there.
I mean I think you've read out there some of the larger opportunities in the flow control industry.
So there is activity that is certainly picking up.
But in terms of the bolt-on we're -- we stay very focused on looking for the types of opportunities products regions that are certainly out there.
They just have to meet the return requirements.
And then from time to time you see assets go out to auction but you'll see them right about the same time we do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean is there any way to give color on if you're prioritizing technology or geographic footprint or product portfolio at this point? Well I think that's just it.
It's really -- we want to make sure we have the flexibility to shift across those opportunities.
And that's what we're doing.
So in different areas I can tell you we're focused more on R&amp;D and product development and in area One [ph] because we can leverage the product technology that we have right now.
We can get it to market as quickly as we'd like.
And either there's no asset available out there or to acquire and integrate that asset creates more risk than taking it to market ourselves.
We have spent quite a bit of capital on further penetrating the Indian and Chinese market to support those markets primarily but also to support markets around the world.
So we've opened in the last year 1.5 years a new facility in China one in India and one in Brazil as well.
So I think the point here is what we're going to do is look for capital allocation opportunities to provide returns to our shareholders and we'll look across the entire spectrum.
Obviously M&amp;A is more opportunistic.
And sure you can create opportunities by paying up.
But then the real question is can you deliver the value to your shareholder of that acquisition over a period of time? And that's what we have to do.
So we're moving certainly across all of those not only with our CapEx dollars as Mike talked about with our SG&amp;A as well.
One thing I want to be clear on in SG&amp;A this is not a matter of just going through and cutting costs.
This is really a matter of how we prioritize those SG&amp;A dollars to drive long-term value.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the competition you've been talking about it about competitive market for a while.
And I guess we shouldn't be surprised to see it more competitive in the Middle East.
But now that that experience is behind you are you worried about the ultra competitive environment spilling into the U.S.
at all? And is the competition that you're seeing coming from Eastern or Western competitors? It's a lot of the same competition that we've seen before.
They're good and capable companies.
One thing to keep in mind in terms of competition particularly in the United States the more of the OECD what customers value is quality on-time performance and good execution.
And so in the Middle East it can tend to be oriented a little bit more towards price although that's changing as well.
Because if you think about it and if you followed some of the E&amp;C projects from the Koreans that were executed a couple of years ago they struggled a little bit and that cost everybody money.
So I think there's an increasing perception especially in the critical nature of these that quality and on time is just paramount not at any price.
We had a very strong pricing environment '06 '07 '08.
But again what I'll tell you is that's when economies were growing at very rapid rates.
And more importantly commodity costs were rising very quickly.
So when an owner would bid a project it would come in 50% to 80% more than what they budgeted for.
So that causes the market to try to grab capacity as quickly it can.
It's not always a good situation.
So what we see in these environments this is typical.
We go through multi-year cycles.
We started the cycle down really towards the end of 2009.
It got very difficult because the industry had little visibility in 2010 and 2011 but you live with that backlog and you see the opportunities start to come.
This is not any different from any time before other than the financial crisis -- was pretty rugged on all industries.
So as we looked at competition they appear to be very rational but this isn't unusual as people start to fill their capacity.
The next question comes from Ryan Connors with Janney Montgomery.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question on the guidance if you might.
You mentioned at the Analyst Day Mark that the trajectory of bookings in the large projects out of the business would be a critical factor in determining whether you end up ultimately at the low end or the high end of the range.
And here we are a few days from May and still at a reasonably wide range there in guidance.
So can you kind of update us on how you're handicapping that relative to the comments you made about somewhat of an acceleration in bookings at the back half of the quarter and into April? Well yes let me clarify.
The conversation at the Analyst Day was where we'd be in the revenue range.
So I think one of the key messages that we want to make sure you take away from this -- I mean look at the improvement in the margins look at the improvement in the operations the platform that's -- you see improvement year-over-year which in and of itself revenue aside drives earnings growth in the business.
So that's one thing to look at in terms of when we look at our guidance.
I think the question I had at that point in time was how will revenue growth impact your earnings outlook? And what we talked about is some of these projects if they are competitive still have economic value.
We'll contribute some to earnings but less so than the underlying platform in terms of growth.
So I think I want to make that distinction.
That was the conversation we had at that point in time.
We still think one of the biggest opportunities to drive earnings growth in this business is improving our platform.
But clearly and certainly as you take a step back relative to where you were I mean we've sold the business that had some revenues to it.
We do need to see increased booking activity to start approaching the top end of our revenue range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is just I mean you've kind of touched on this a few times on the call here but just to kind of ask it more I guess directly this whole issue of competitiveness to the environment is there anything different -- can you contrast I guess the environment today versus the last cycle around and whether things are more or less competitive or whether this is just kind of where you would expect things to be at this stage of the cycle we're in right now? I think it's where we'd expect it to be.
If you go back to the last cycle I think the industry in general got caught by surprise with how economies heated up so quickly and material costs or commodity costs went up fairly quickly.
This one seems to be more steadily paced.
What do we mean by typical? Typical in the fact that it's understandable these projects get delayed because people want to make sure they have their budgets right that they know exactly what the process conditions are that any change orders they want to consider to get this thing right they do.
So I think people are very very thoughtful.
These are 40- to 50-year commitments that these owners are making.
And if you've looked at the activity back in '07 '08 they were rushing to market as quickly as they could and understandably so.
This is more typical.
Long-term spend long-term commitment it's not just any one individual's career it's many careers that depend on the decision that these folks make.
And so they're very very thoughtful and methodical about it as they go through the process so it's not typical.
I think over the last couple of years what we did see and you've seen in our industry was 2010 2011 there was little visibility and that creates some more of -- we use the term choppy behavior at that point in time.
That's not unusual as well except for the fact that the industry had added capacity and was adding capacity and in '10 and '11 had little or no visibility as to how that was going to get used up.
So a steep cycle you saw it creates a little more of a choppy environment during the trough that we've seen we getting back to more of what you see as steady state [ph] in our cycles.
The next question is from David Rose with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I had a follow-up question on the aftermarket business.
I was wondering if you can quantify the size of the opportunity for bringing in-house some of your aftermarket support as in Dow Benelux? And was there any progress reflected in the aftermarket growth that we saw in the quarter? Yes.
I mean there was absolutely progress.
I mean progress in terms of market driven we talked about earlier but also in executing on our end-user strategies.
And there's a whole array of things that we're doing to try to capture more share of the customer's wallet.
We could and have quantified what the opportunity is internally that wouldn't be necessarily something I'd talk about on the earnings conference calls.
But if you take a step back Dow Benelux is one facility.
Think about how many they operate how many DuPont operate Exxon and Shell.
That really is our opportunity.
And if you take a look at just overall aftermarket I mean again I would say the aftermarket was up in many areas.
Chemical market was doing very good on the aftermarket side.
The oil and gas we talked about the refineries on the Gulf Coast and started to spend some of the MRO business.
Again from where they were in the past Europe oil and gas aftermarket was also up which was a very good sign.
Our general industries business was up in terms of aftermarket also.
And then most of the regions fared very well in Q1.
Probably the only region that we had a little difficulty was in Latin America and Venezuela.
Other than that I think it bodes very well for the aftermarket going forward.
And then the last thing as we mentioned the distribution business on the valve side also had a very strong Q1 in that area.
And we've had a pretty good distribution business on the industrial side also in that area so...
Research Division</strong> I guess my question was related -- did you see any benefit of additional opportunities in the quarter that went in-house or went from in-house to where you were taking care of it? Yes we didn't announce any during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And do we expect -- even if they're small you won't announce them anyhow will you? Well those types of relationships we tend to if the customer permits let you know because it helps you understand we're executing on our strategies.
Sorry about that.
I get emotional when I talk about aftermarket.
Our next question is from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Understanding your enthusiasm for aftermarket those type of -- with those type of margins.
But Mark I do have to push you on the guidance a little bit more.
So I mean we're standing here in Q1.
Organically you're down 1%.
If I look at what Q1 has typically contributed to the full year revenue it is trending below where we would be to hit the mid-range of your full year target numbers about 4.5% growth range.
Your backlog is flat year-over-year yet you're talking to 3% to 6% growth.
I mean so obviously you're assuming that there's going to be a meaningful acceleration.
We're talking about EPD orders maybe coming in the back half of the year but it's not going to contribute a whole lot this year.
So how should we be thinking that? And what's really driving this and what you that confidence that we're going to get there? Well one thing is we in Q1 even on lower revenues we delivered more earnings and we're sitting flat backlog year-over-year but as I talked about improved backlog with more earnings power and backlog.
I think the third thing to look at is look at the growth in our aftermarket business even over the last 2 quarters.
We've seen good growth there.
And then the trajectory of the platforms.
So we're not done improving this platform as well.
And I think the other thing -- the comments earlier aside from the aftermarket is as these project opportunities come there's run rate business that goes with that as well.
So I think you -- if you saw those things together.
And honestly Brian there's an aspect of share count year-over-year as well that we get a benefit from.
That's what at this point gives us confidence on our guidance.
LLC</strong> Yes but just to follow-up on that I mean I appreciate the improved margins in the segments.
But I mean if we look at Q1 you did get a meaningful tax gain which I don't think you were anticipating.
You got the gain on the sale of the asset.
So operationally you're actually running quite a bit below I think where you expected the run rate to be.
So I don't think your guidance initially anticipated those benefits.
And it seems like top line actually would be a meaningful driver to get you operationally where you thought you would be.
Is that not a fair view? No if you even normalize the operating income I mean it improved on lower revenues.
So take all the items aside let's not even talk about the tax and you can see the improvement driven by the improvement in gross margin and the other one the operating and the leverage on the SG&amp;A as well.
Now to your point especially around fixed costs leveraging the SG&amp;A line do we get benefit from top line growth? Yes because we leverage it.
We can leverage it in our factories our gross margins.
So there's certainly improved benefit.
But if you look being able to improve our margins on a normalized basis compared year-over-year on declining revenue that shows you the power that you may not be fully observing in the improvement of the platform and just even the growth of the aftermarket bookings over the last 2 quarters.
The next question is from Joe Giordano with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one last one maybe on aftermarket.
So we're -- last quarter was all-time high aftermarket.
This quarter all-time high for a 1Q.
How do you look at the timing of conversion there? And how would you balance on a margin level maybe the -- what we expect to be a short cycle conversion from that OE? How would you balance that with expected -- sort of expected OE growth in the back half of the year at a more of like a dilutive impact to that? How would you categorize the whole -- the trend for the year on the overall operating margin? Well I mean what -- more on the gross margin than the operating margin because if you get project-related revenues you tend to get better fixed cost leverage in the SG&amp;A line for that.
We talked about this before.
If you looked at historically the -- when we reported the seal business had 40% plus gross margins in the business.
And so you can see it certainly has a margin enhancement.
So a mix shift in original equipment to aftermarket all other things being equal assuming there's no improved operations or anything like that is 25 to 30 basis points margin.
But that's it on the gross line.
We want really to drive all of it.
What we want to do is make sure we have profitable projects that come through in the business.
Again we can increase the bookings that you see.
But if we take things at 0 profit or potentially at a loss in the operating line we don't think that benefits anybody at this point in time because we're not concerned short term about absorption issues.
So as you look at that we want to continue to grow that aftermarket business.
It does tend to cycle through over -- max a couple of quarters.
The run rate business will tend to cycle through a little bit longer.
And then projects we do get percentage and completion accounting but those things will tend to execute over a year 1 year plus.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one question on chemicals.
So we saw year-on-year there's about a 300 basis point mix shift on the bookings there so something like 15% year-on-year growth in chemicals.
I just -- maybe if you can give some color as to where that's coming in and which segment are you seeing that kind of big increase.
And is this the OE from the ethylene projects that have already been handed down to the EMCs? I think -- so that's maybe that's getting hidden in the OE decline in EPD.
Yes.
I mean the ethylene projects are a part of it.
We're starting to see those projects start to come in.
But if you were to look overall chemical is up about 15% for FLS overall.
And the business it was up in EPD quite a bit so that was EPD and it was up in IPD also.
And chemical and FCD was just slightly down about 2%.
So 2 of the business where the powerhouse destroyed the chemical business.
And beside the ethylene projects they're getting the shale gas finds in the U.S.
driving all the chemical business primarily in the U.S.
And you're also seeing some chemical business driving in the Middle East.
They again diversify their overall business to get into the chemical business.
So I would say Middle East and North America were the 2 primary drivers along with EPD and IPD in that basis.
The next question is from Scott Graham with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So the pickup in bookings that you saw in March and April one of the things that we understand is that the company's optimism on the timing of a project releases TPCs [ph] is incrementally a little bit better because of what you're seeing in Europe and the Middle East.
I was just wondering if -- is that the same thing? Are you -- is your optimism on the timing of the rest of world over those areas of the world bookings leading running through your bookings now? Let me see if I understand the question.
I mean we've talked about seeing these opportunities out there and I think a lot of the comments have been focused around North America.
And I think during the Analyst Day Scott we -- you saw some of the awards to some of the EMCs.
And we were saying we'd anticipate seeing some of that towards the back half of this year from the North America.
If you go around the world those are a set of different conversations that either give us optimism or concern over a period of time.
For example in the Middle East some of the upgrade requirements we talked about in Kuwait and some of the projects that we've seen out there for a while.
And in Europe a lot of that is going to be more around the economy.
And we don't expect that they're going to build any new refineries.
But it will certainly support some of the run rate business the power industry as well and some of the things that we're -- they're doing with chemical as well.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I wanted to ask you a little bit more about the run rate business Mark because we've been using that phrase now for a couple of quarters.
You gave a couple of examples early on in the call about what that is exactly.
I guess my bigger question is what are the signs that you're seeing there that suggest that that can continue at the pace of growth that it's currently running at? Well I mean one is just the growth we've seen fairly consistently over the last couple of years in that business.
Another one is the improved execution.
Those are the kind of pieces of equipment that a customer needs quickly on time and to operate the way it needs to operate.
And when IPD wasn't executing to that level honestly they had to turn away some business.
So I think those are some of the encouraging signs that we're seeing.
The other thing that we've looked at we talked about a minute ago was the distribution channel.
In 2008 they started destocking that will tend to put pressure it'll flow through into that run rate business because that oftentimes that's where some of that configure-to-order product will tend to go through.
The other thing that we added in our commentary Scott is oftentimes some of the run rate -- and this can be some of the configure-to-order process equipment will go along with projects as well.
So on project opportunities IPD does participate.
If you look at the balance of plant-type investment some of those run rate products will go in there.
And I think the other thing -- frankly one example is we told you 3 or 4 years ago that we've not probably targeted an R&amp;D opportunity in the ISO chemical pump got that product up and running and it's doing well.
So those are some of the things.
But I think really from our standpoint what it comes to -- externally we looked at project opportunities we look at the distribution channel we do look at some of the drivers and economies because some of this run rate product goes into small upgrades or repairs or replacements in Europe and in the United States and other regions.
And then internally we look through opportunities around how we're aligning our sales organization the products we've developed that we've invested in and how we're taking them to market the acquisition that we made of mag drive product that we can load on to the platform.
And then at the end of the day it comes down to execution.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
The last question is this.
Earlier today a company in your space not necessarily a competitor per se reported that the power business -- their power business had started to accelerate in the Middle East and Africa.
I was wondering if you were seeing the same.
If you take a look at the power business a lot of that is tied to desal business in the Middle East and also it's tied to the combined cycle business in the Middle East.
I would say it's those 2 drivers there.
And after there [ph] does have some desal business going on there.
And as you know that those plants take a lot of power in order to operate.
I would say you're correct there.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Jay Roueche for any closing remarks.
We again appreciate everyone's participation today.
If you have follow-up questions please call Mike Mullin or me.
And with that Ellen we have concluded today's call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Flowserve's first quarter 2014 earnings conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Richard and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Roueche Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation today as we discuss Flowserve Corporation's financial results for the second quarter of 2014 which we announced yesterday afternoon in our press release and Form 10-Q filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Taff Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call up to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
Before turning the call over to Mark let me remind you that this event is being webcast and a slide presentation is available.
An audio replay will also be accessible approximately 2 hours following the conclusion of this live call.
Please also note that this call and the associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements that are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of July 24 2014.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
And except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of today's forward-looking statements.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release slide presentation and our Form 10-Q as well as our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information.
All of these documents including the live webcast and replay are accessible on our website at www.flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our second quarter results and our earnings of $0.90 per share.
This performance keeps us on pace to deliver our full year targets.
Additionally our quarterly bookings of nearly $1.4 billion highlight our growing aftermarket franchise and run rate business in the beginning of sub mid-to-larger OE awards.
Our solid bookings included over $530 million of aftermarket and we increased backlog of $2.85 billion up 11.5% or over $290 million since year end.
This increased level of orders supports our outlook for near-term revenue growth.
As a project cycle commences we expect to see the traditional pattern where longer lead time products are awarded first benefiting our EPD and IPD segments both of which realized nice bookings growth in the second quarter.
With our key energy markets expanding we will maintain the discipline and selectivity that has served Flowserve well and leverage our geographic diversity and pursue emerging regions with a cautious eye towards volatile regions such as Russia Middle East and Venezuela.
Our employees' commitment and dedication is the cornerstone of our performance.
We are gaining traction with our performance culture initiatives while maintaining a high level of engagement and customer focus.
Their efforts have delivered another quarter of solid financial results and enhanced our operational performance which provides the opportunity for an increased focus on growth both organic and M&amp;A while continuing to meet or exceed customer expectations.
Sales came in below our expectations this quarter.
However this was largely timing related including some delays due to customer change orders and delayed inspection.
Mike will cover our financials in detail but we remain confident that the second quarter's increased backlog will drive revenue growth in the second half of the year.
During the second quarter and really year-to-date we have delivered improved margin performance.
Each segment during the second quarter generated increases in both gross and operating margins.
This performance highlights the benefits of our disciplined and selective bidding process combined with our operational improvements and ongoing cost control focus.
We have made a number of margin-related commitments during the last few years.
One was to increase operating margins by over 150 basis points above 2011 levels.
We have now delivered 4 consecutive quarters above this threshold even reaching the upper end of our stated range.
While we recognize margins can and will vary quarter-to-quarter we have made significant progress on this target over the last 2.5 years and it forms a solid foundation for the future.
A key component to our recent margin improvement continues to be driven by the IPD segment.
As we have discussed the last few quarters IPD has made significant progress improving its operating platform.
This quarter's operating margin of 13.3% is closing in on the 14% to 15% target that we established several years ago.
And we remain committed to achieving this target by the end of 2015.
To continue the margin progression at IPD we have shifted its emphasis towards growth and its 14.5% increase in bookings during the first half of 2014 is an excellent start.
Returning the focus to our total bookings.
The $1.38 billion level this quarter was an increase of 12.6% year-over-year.
We're also pleased that aftermarket bookings continued its positive trend line up over 5% this quarter but the impressive original equipment order growth of nearly 18% really moved the needle.
The original equipment awards were a combination of a few large- and mid-sized awards and strong recurring run rate orders.
First half aftermarket bookings of over $1 billion in 2014 represent a 6.7% increase year-over-year and highlight the success of our ongoing commitment to end-user strategies in supporting our customers.
This consistent aftermarket business combined with solid run rate activity provides stability as the expected ramp-up in project awards begins to take hold.
We are very encouraged that this quarter's overall bookings growth occurred across all of our end markets and in every region.
We believe this indicates an acceleration of project activity that supports our growth plans.
Tom will speak to our end markets in greater detail but looking at our business by region following a few years of reduced activity the Middle East rebounded impressively with bookings growth of 20% in the first half of 2014.
After Europe showed signs of stability in 2013 we are pleased that this region's bookings growth was nearly 16% year-to-date while North American bookings increased nearly 6% supported by strong chemical and oil and gas production.
Latin America continues to face political and financial headwinds but we are encouraged by modest bookings growth in the second quarter as well as by recent actions in Mexico to increase oil production.
Finally Asia-Pacific continues to be a focus area as our strategy is to further increase our presence and market penetration to support growth.
As we move into the second half of the year we are supported by an increasingly efficient operating platform and opportunities in our key energy markets both of which are expected to continue.
I'm confident that our strategic actions taken over the last few years significantly improved our capabilities in operations around the world.
These improvements will enhance our attractiveness to clients for new work.
And while I am pleased with the demonstrated operating progress we have made across our segments I'm equally encouraged by the potential for further improvements.
We are committed to capitalizing on our opportunities to drive profitable growth and deliver shareholder value.
So with that overview I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter and first half results have largely rolled out as we anticipated.
As Mark mentioned we did incur some larger shipment delays as customers deferred inspections or issued change orders.
This just impacts timing.
The improvements of both our bidding process and our operating platform continue to drive our strong margins and earnings performance.
I believe after several quarters of talking about it we now see the acceleration in our energy markets beginning to occur as evidenced by our strongest quarterly bookings level in over 6 years.
It is also worth highlighting that this quarter's activity is even more substantial considering that currency commodity and pricing levels were much more favorable back in 2008.
In terms of our segments the EPD and IPD drove the growth as pumps tend to have longer lead times and thus tend to be leading indicators.
FCD bookings were actually down for the second quarter but this reflects the general lag between the pump and the valve business.
We expect FCD bookings to follow the leading indicators.
And the valve sale in Q1 2014 also impacted the Q2 compare by about 3% on orders and revenue.
While larger original equipment project activity is important for our long-term growth expectations our run rate original equipment activity and consistent aftermarket business continue to provide a stable earnings platform.
I'm particularly pleased with our aftermarket performance.
The second quarter of 2014 represents a third consecutive quarter with aftermarket bookings exceeding $500 million.
And the last quarter was the first time we had delivered 2 straight quarters above that amount.
I truly believe we have taken this recurring higher-margin business to another level.
Considering its attributes this business will remain an area of emphasis.
We continue to make disciplined investments in our aftermarket footprint including the new QRC we opened in Asia-Pacific this quarter.
As we prepare for the building cycle and larger project work I am confident that we are and have been focused on the right areas to capitalize on this opportunity through superior execution.
Even after making significant progress over the last few years in our One Flowserve and other initiatives we continue to believe significant propensity for further improvement remains.
Among others these include operational excellence ongoing focus on the cost of quality and on-time delivery customer focus and localization investments development of a performance culture and investment in global project management expertise.
The consistent margin improvement we have delivered over the last few years reflects the success of our operational initiatives and this quarter's strong gross and operating margin improvement in all segments further validates our strategies.
Now looking at our end markets.
Oil and gas activity was strong in the second quarter with bookings growth over 25% and a positive long-term outlook.
We booked our first ebulator order in North America this quarter since 2008.
Ebulators have the longest lead time among our rotating equipment which makes this award a positive leading indicator for upcoming refinery activity.
North America activity continues to be driven by pipeline construction refinery upgrades gas processing oil sands development and gas-to-liquid plants this being on account of favorable natural gas and oil supplies.
Additionally continued opportunities exist in LNG facilities particularly in the U.S.
as projects progress through the regulatory approval process.
Recent approval of condensate exports from the U.S.
may support additional production.
We also continue to expect new refining investments in the Middle East and Asia.
These refining investments plus those in other regions will likely challenge the European refining market.
Europe is however expected to increase diesel production.
Brazil's proceeding with FPSO development.
Longer-term opportunities in Mexico should increase following the recent policy reform intended to increase production levels.
From an oil and gas aftermarket standpoint maintenance activity in the Gulf Coast continued the first quarter trend with increased bookings growth off the lower levels we faced previously.
The chemical market also remains strong as new capacity investments in North America continue to advance including ethylene and ethylene derivative projects as the U.S.
has now joined the Middle East as the low-cost feedstock leader.
Over the next decade a 30% increase in U.S.
chemical production capacity is expected.
In the Middle East downstream expansion efforts continue.
Meanwhile Asia and Latin America reassess their chemical development plans based on competing opportunities in the U.S.
Now moving on to the power market.
We continue to expect growth.
China India and Russia continue to pursue fossil-based projects.
The Middle East also sees increased activities both in terms of conventional and solar power.
North America and Europe however remain slower due largely to conservation the lack of a consistent energy policy and modest energy demand drivers.
However the low price of natural gas and recently announced CO2 reduction guidelines should continue to drive the U.S.
combined cycle market subject to pipeline capacity.
Nuclear power remains in transition but we see continued development in China Russia and South Korea and discussions of new capacity in some regions of Europe.
Following new safety standard requirements Japan is moving closer to restarting a portion of its nuclear capacity idle since 2011.
Finally natural gas combined cycle plants are a global opportunity.
Strength in Latin America drove increased bookings in our water market while strong activity in North America drove higher general industry bookings this quarter.
Wrapping up I am encouraged as we head into the second half of the year.
My confidence is rooted in the accelerating energy markets we serve and our enhanced operating platform that is now consistently delivering solid results for our customers.
We remain focused on growth profitability execution the customer and driving returns for all of our shareholders.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Following Mark and Tom's operational overview and business outlook let me now discuss our financial results in greater detail.
With our solid results in the second quarter and first half of 2014 we are on pace to deliver on our full year targets.
Second quarter EPS increased 7.1% to $0.90 and this amount included $0.03 of foreign exchange headwind below the line severance and realignment expense.
In addition to the revenue impact of some customer-driven delays mentioned earlier we also experienced the effect from the Naval business sale completed last quarter which will remain a headwind for the second half of the year as well.
Considering these factors and negative currency impacts on the first half of the year we now expect revenue growth for 2014 to be in the lower half of our original guidance of 3% to 6%.
I was particularly pleased with the gross margin improvement across all segments this quarter as operational excellence initiatives continue to take hold and our disciplined bidding process has demonstrated its impact in our current revenues as well as by improving the quality of our backlog which will be recognized in future periods.
Our focused cost control was again evident in the SG&amp;A line even as we continued to invest in our R&amp;D quality and project management resources among other important initiatives.
Our total SG&amp;A expenses declined year-over-year in the second quarter even as it increased slightly as a percentage of sales.
Our longer-term goal remains to reduce SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to the 18% range.
I believe the programs we are executing and our ongoing cost focus combined with a growing top line will enable us to achieve this commitment in time.
Operating margin of 15.9% is approaching the high end of our previously announced 3-year margin-improvement guidance of 15.2% to 16.2% by the end of this year and includes solid improvement across all business units.
Additionally IPD continues on track for its targeted 14% to 15% range by the end of next year.
In addition to the higher-quality work and operational excellence initiatives we also benefited this quarter from a 1% mix shift towards aftermarket.
Below operating income foreign currency had a negative impact of roughly $4 million in the second quarter versus a slight benefit last year due primarily to movements in the Brazilian Mexican and Singaporean currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar.
We continue to work to dampen the impact of foreign currency volatility on our results and monitor FX closely as the strengthening dollar typically is a headwind.
Our tax rate for the quarter was roughly 29% consistent with our expected rate of approximately 30%.
Turning to cash flows.
We generated $74 million from our operations during the quarter similar to last year.
We delivered a modest improvement in our year-to-date operating cash flows and consistent with the normal seasonality expect to generate a significant portion of our cash in the second half of the year as we continue towards our goal of consistently generating annual free cash flow near our net income level.
Major uses of cash in the quarter included share repurchases and dividends totaling $65 million as we continue to return value to our shareholders.
Capital expenditures were $22 million and we repaid $10 million of debt.
Working capital remains a key area of focus but progress often feels 2 steps forward then 1 back.
We currently are facing challenges clearing receivables in a timely basis in some emerging markets such as Latin America.
While the customers in these markets have consistently paid their bills the persistent delays in payment are negatively impacting our DSO.
We are taking a number of corrective actions to improve the situation but it continues to take time and effort.
Inventory has increased due in large part to our growing backlog.
Turns were relatively flat with last year as we continue with operating improvement resulting in our third consecutive quarter with past-due backlog below 5%.
I remain confident that we are taking the necessary steps to achieve our targeted cash conversion levels and we'll continue to emphasize this area.
Moving to our EPS guidance and outlook for the second half of the year.
We are reaffirming our 2014 earnings guidance of $3.65 to $4 per share following our solid first half results continuing operational improvement and accelerating end markets.
I think thus far in 2014 we've demonstrated our ability to grow earnings even in a modest revenue environment through higher-quality revenues and exceptional operating performance.
With our 4-year revenue target now in the lower half of our original 3% to 6% guidance it indicates we expect revenues will pick up smartly in the second half of the year from both increased activity levels as well as from the backlog we've increased year-to-date.
Turning to our capital priorities.
As mentioned earlier we continue to return value to our shareholders and remain committed to our disciplined approach to capital deployment including organic and inorganic opportunities.
We will continue to invest in our business to increase our capabilities in emerging regions and our aftermarket strategies to deliver profitable growth and as such continue to expect CapEx in the range of $130 million to $140 million.
In summary Flowserve's financial position is solid.
We have a well-defined leverage and capital return policy.
We're a strong cash generator and have sufficient capacity for growth investments.
Much like other areas in the company we have opportunities for improvement and believe the expected turn in the cycle will prove beneficial for Flowserve and our metrics.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
Operator we have now concluded our prepared remarks this morning and would now like to open the call for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question online comes from Hamzah Mazari from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A question on margins.
And Mark you've touched on sort of your margin target in the prepared remarks.
Maybe if you could give us a sense of how much of the low-hanging fruit on the margin side is behind you? You've done a lot of realignment work you have the One Flowserve initiative.
Is it fair to say that the margin upside over the next couple of years will come more from mix with the aftermarket and potential pricing rather than the cost side? Just trying to get a sense of where is the upside on margins going forward.
Where does it come from? Okay.
Well if you look across it one of them is the fixed cost leverage on the G&amp;A.
If you think about it over the last -- in our year-over-year compares we haven't gotten leverage like we did in prior periods because of the relatively flat revenue growth.
So that's an opportunity on the fixed cost leverage side.
Moving up the P&amp;L you saw good improvement on the gross margin side.
But what I will tell you Hamzah is we still have some work to do in some of our facilities.
So there's room for improvement there.
I think we talked about in the Analyst Day we're about halfway through where we need to be.
It takes time to get the businesses running as efficiently as you want.
And so there's still work to be done that will benefit the gross margin line as well.
And then continuing to look at what we call continuous improvement or realignment we see there's opportunities where we have under absorption.
We've added new capacity in emerging parts of the world.
It's very efficient capacity.
So we're always going to have opportunities to drive additional margin through just continuous improvement and really looking overall at our footprint long term.
And then you've mentioned also the pricing environment.
So as you kind of move into these cycles as we've talked about before it certainly is competitive.
We did -- we see it still in front of us.
What you saw this quarter was as Tom mentioned some of the longer lead time products that we have really are what supported some of the mid-sized and one sort of larger project that we took in during the quarter but that certainly is still in front of us as well.
So that's really how you drive the margins in the business.
And I think another thing is continuing to invest in our business in some of the products where we can command margin and drive our aftermarket growth.
So we certainly have some opportunity as we look forward to drive margin in this business.
But as you know what we like to do is when we have our commitments and Mike talked about them in his comments we like to deliver on those and then we'll talk about where we're going from there.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just a follow-up question.
The second half sales ramp based on your guidance seems much higher than what you've seen in the second half on sales historically.
I know you've mentioned customer change orders and some deferrals.
Do you have any sense of how we should think about your confidence level in the second half on sales? Is it possible to quantify what was deferred? Any color there? Well yes.
If you looked at -- we talk about where we are in the cycle and I'll go back again to '07 and '08 just for kind of edification.
That was a period of time where sales were coming almost as expected because there was a big push to get these things in the ground and installed because of what was going on with the commodity prices and economies.
And the other thing frankly I'll tell you is when execution isn't at the level where it is now in our company oftentimes we can become the gating item on a project.
So with the improved execution what we're able now to do is position these to be delivered to customers but it's really up to them as to when they want to take it.
The last thing they want to do is store a piece of equipment on site for a period of time because it sits out in the elements.
So that is not atypical from this cycle.
So as we look forward what we see is we want to make sure we're ready to deliver these things.
If they need some additional changes to the process conditions or additional elements to it respond to that capture the value from doing that.
But as we look forward we do see typically Q4 is our I guess revenue quarter has been historically in our business.
We know these projects are moving forward.
We are not the longest lead time product on it so we know that there's a lot of work that's been done on these projects and they're going to get installed.
So that's how we look at it and when we do our revenue forecast going forward.
I think what you heard in my comments is we expected a little more revenue up to this point but what has occurred doesn't surprise us.
Our next question on the line comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about the makeup of the 13% bookings growth? In other words specifically by -- you had a couple of references to longer lead time projects in the pumps side which is obviously the business product line that carried the bookings this quarter.
Typically you are sort of 2 to 5 2 to 6 quarters in terms of the monetization of the bookings into revenue.
Has that -- is everything still -- the bookings let's say what percentage of the bookings is still within that range? And maybe this quarter what kind of fell outside of that range to maybe a longer lead time? Sure.
Let me -- because -- and I'm going to do it intentionally let me build from the bottom up because I think that's still an important way to look at our order book.
We -- underlying our bookings growth a lot of it was mostly driven by our aftermarket and run rate business.
We did see one order around the $40 million range which would represent about 3% in some of the longer lead time products that we talk about.
Keep in mind and I think we've discussed this before Scott those projects typically have percentage completion accounting.
So if you're looking at how those convert to revenues from engineering to installation it will be in terms of how costs build up over that period of time is to how we'll bring that into revenues.
The other middle sized ones were near at that level.
So if you think about our order book and how it's kind of built it's been really still the base things that we've been talking about before the good aftermarket growth in the run rate business.
Run rate can run 2 to 6 quarters depending on the type of product where it is in the project what the lead time potentially is in that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what I think I hear you're saying is that the underlying -- a lot of the underlying bookings where the run rate business and whatever that number is and then after that you had the large order which I'm going to assume what you mean by that this more than 6 quarters although because that's percentage of completion we'll see that beforehand.
And then mid-sized orders which would be -- maybe I assume more toward the 4- to 6-quarter territory.
Yes.
I mean the mid-sized ones especially -- and Tom commented on some of the longer lead time equipment depending on where it falls within the accounting in terms of percentage of completion but typically those are fairly expensive pieces of equipment those are long lead times.
So to your point I think that's right in the range that you've talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So fairly balanced bookings nothing that would make it so that the bookings that you had this quarter this 13% uprising here is all to '16.
It's going to be sooner than that for the most part? Yes that's fairly consistent.
And I think you've heard that from the market in general is the big project opportunities are still out there.
What we saw this quarter was some of the longer lead times typically our ebulators.
And the point to that is those are good leading indicators.
Keep in mind by the time they're ordering a gas turbine or some of this longer lead time there's a significant amount of investment that's already been made in the business.
So it gives us the confidence that these things are going to move forward.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And the second question is and I don't want to read too much into this but there was some wording in the press release around acquisitions and divestitures not affecting the lower end of the 3% to 6% guidance or I should say not inclusive.
Are you seeing an improvement in M&amp;A possibilities? Are you contemplating more divestitures? Again is there something that I should be reading that -- am I reading too much into that or are things maybe a little bit more active? No.
I think -- well let me kind of walk through.
One that statement is made just because we don't know what we may execute during the year.
And so what we want to do is say "Here's our view at this point in time it's January." We added Innomag at the end of last year and we made the divestiture early on this year.
What you should expect around when we talked about realignment divestitures or whatever it maybe is continuous improvement in our business.
We want these things to earn the cost of capital and the good returns for our shareholders.
And if they don't then they're probably in a better position in other folks' hands.
That's the message that I think we've been consistent on.
The other thing I think to talk about is we're adhering to our bolt-on strategy.
But one of the things with the improving platform is we feel more confident in being able to bring things and put them on our platform because it's reduced integration risk and it gives us the opportunity on the margin relative to where we were 2 or 3 years ago to certainly be more opportunistic but we are going to stay disciplined on it.
Nothing is really in a sense changed except for as this platform improves what we do is it gives us the opportunity to be more opportunistic on some of the assets that are out there.
I can tell you it's still competitive for these assets.
That's just the way the market is right now.
There's certainly a bid in flow control and we just got to be mindful of that that we get returns for our shareholders.
Our next question on the line comes from Charley Brady from BMO Capital.
Just back to Scott's question on the backlog.
I mean how much -- I guess I'll just ask straight out how much of the current -- or end of second quarter backlog gets recognized in the next 12 months? You can look at our disclosures in our 10-K and I don't remember what those numbers are but typically in FCD and IPD there's a substantial amount well in the 90% that roll out within the following 4 quarters.
And I think at -- and I don't remember the disclosure but it's probably around the same for EPD especially when you consider the original equipment aftermarket mix that's in the business.
So a substantial amount of our backlog rolls out in the next 4 quarters and going back to the aftermarket business that tends to be shorter cycle over a couple quarters.
A bulk of that goes out during that period of time.
Run rate is shorter cycle.
And then these projects depending on their size and their lead times will -- they'll roll through in percentage of completion but typically they don't get shipped for oftentimes over a year.
Right okay.
I just want to clarify that.
On the aftermarket side of the business given the strength you've seen in the aftermarket can you talk about -- as you look at your installed base maybe update us on kind of -- are you seeing a better capture rate on your installed base then you have I don't know a few years ago? Or what's -- is it just the fact that you have a much larger installed base and that's driving growth in aftermarket? I would say capturing more of our installed base is an area of opportunity.
And we will be discussing that more and more over the next 2 to 3 quarters with you because we think that certainly is a big opportunity for us is to capture more of our installed base.
We have done some of that.
What you see in -- that can drive aftermarket a lot is our end-user strategies.
Some of our what I would call consulting capabilities in a sense and I don't mean we have a consulting arm but we work with customers around efficiency and uptime because if you think about it with energy cost where they are the biggest cost on our customers face is operating these facilities so they're looking for efficiency.
So it's a whole set of strategies which have consistently drove -- driven this growth over a number of years.
And the point to that is in good times and bad if we take good care of our customers we can get growth in this business.
So as you look at what can drive aftermarket an opportunity for us is doing a better job of capturing our installed base in our business.
I think we do a very good job in the mechanical seals businesses that we have.
But certainly have an opportunity in the other rotating equipment and our valve business.
And as we continue to deploy some of our end-user strategies we think that will drive growth as well.
And then also just one other thing and I think we talked -- I know we talked about this in 2008 2009 with some of these projects as they come in oftentimes there's what's called commissioning spares.
Basically when they start up a new facility there are spare parts that are required as you gin up or prime the system so that will be an opportunity as well.
And just one final one.
Your commentary on IPD kind of the shift in strategy there moving towards more of a growth orientation.
Can you discuss that in a little more detail.
I mean what does that actually entail? What's the specifics on kind of looking at more growth than kind of fixing the business from where it was? Well one example is the Innomag acquisition that we made.
Again those are more opportunistic than anything else.
Something that we mentioned during our Analyst Day is investment in the sales organization making sure we develop products.
For years we've been talking about the ISO chemical pump that we brought to market.
So spending more money in those areas and investing more in those areas to drive growth and -- because the one thing you got to keep in mind going back to 4 or 5 years when execution isn't at the level that it should be it's difficult for a sales organization any sales organization to sell into those operating units.
So as we've improved those operations now we can invest more on the front-end of the business to make sure we drive through the increasingly efficient operations.
But those are the things that we're doing really across all of our businesses.
Remember one of the fundamental tenets we believe in: If we execute well.
We think that's our best opportunity to get our customers to do business with us and they would tell you the same thing.
Our next question on the line comes from Jamie Sullivan from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question just -- so the bookings commentary that was helpful.
That makes sense.
I'm still looking at the second half ramp in sales.
You're looking at high-single digits to get to the guidance range.
So I'm just wondering if you could give a little bit more color on the cadence you had some of the change orders you had bookings this quarter.
Just wondering is it even heavier weighted towards 4Q than a typical year? Well again I don't want to start parsing quarters.
Look I think going back to the original comment the cadence in our backlog is driven as much with the customer right now as anything else.
And the cadence in our bookings is going to be driven by markets and lead times that are required.
So I can tell you right now it's not -- as these things ramp-up it is not a tight market so that tends to shorten lead times on the products because time is money on these projects.
If you go back to 2008 the market was tight and so lead times were extended and I mean significantly 30% to 40%.
Something that would typically go out in mid-40s we're going out 70 -- 72 weeks.
So how this backlog rolls out is going to be as much driven by the customer if anything else.
And in fact that's what you've seen in the first half of this year.
So as we look out over the horizon as these projects start to mature and develop that's going to drive it as much as anything else.
Jamie it's Mike.
The other thing I would just add is just look at the increase in the backlog.
Backlog's up $293 million since the end of the year and then another metric to look at is backlog's up about $185 million year-over-year.
And that $185 million is composed of $56 million.
That's in aftermarket.
And certainly we would expect that to flow through in the second half of the year.
And then $129 million is up year-over-year in OE.
And as Mark talked about that's a combination of these run rate items as well as some of the longer lead time items so you'd expect some of that $129 million to flow into the second half of the year as well.
And so that will help you little bit with the math as far as it gives us the confidence that we can hit the lower end of our guidance range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on free cash flow.
You've laid out the aspirational targets there for a little while.
But just wondering what maybe should we expect in progress over the next 12 to 18 months given that you've had some of the customer dynamics in Latin America and OE starting to pick up? Well I think we've really been working hard at that and we've got a number of tools that we've actually are rolling out as we speak.
They went live actually this quarter and a number of new process and procedures and all that.
So I'm optimistic we'll see that.
Certainly some challenges with the Latin American environment but I mean that's been a very good region for us for a long period of time.
It's about 10% 11% of our total revenues as a company in that region.
So -- but I do expect that you'll see some progress over this next 12 to 18 months.
Our next question comes from Joe Ritchie from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So my first question was really around the deferred shipments.
Can you quantify exactly how much was deferred from a growth and EPS perspective and whether you expect that to come through in the third quarter? Joe actually I'm having a little trouble hearing you on that.
What -- can you state your question again? You might want to go a little slower.
I think you're getting some feedback.
Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
Yes so the question was really around quantification of the large shipments that were delayed this quarter into 3Q.
First your -- can you quantify the EPS and the revenue impact as well as whether you expect that to come through in the third quarter? Yes.
I mean we'll give you a high level.
We saw probably about $50 million to $60 million of revenue roll through on these projects from one quarter to the next.
Again though keep in mind that can happen again in subsequent quarters as well but that's generally what we saw relative to our original forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And it clearly was a good order quarter for the company.
Middle East yes it seems to be a big driver in the first half of the year.
Can you provide some commentary on the pricing and competitive dynamics that you're seeing in the region today? Yes.
I think I've made the comment before and it still applies.
That is that's certainly a competitive area.
When you look -- when you're bidding on projects now and the aftermarket opportunities you can get certainly good margin on that.
But the Middle East is competitive but it's important.
We have significant investments there.
We've seen good growth there.
It does yield great aftermarket opportunities over the long term but it certainly is remaining and we think will remain a competitive market.
We've seen that.
That's been in our backlog for a number of years.
So what you're seeing now is -- still reflects the competitive environment in the Middle East.
Research Division</strong> Okay but there was nothing -- you didn't sense any increased competition or the pricing dynamics intensifying in recent quarters? No no.
It's been similar for quite a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess one last question for you.
On the aftermarket you mentioned that you're taking the order book to a new level.
Given -- is this $500 million plus the right new normal just given your focus in your end-user strategies potential better penetration in IPD and FCD? Or is some of this really driven by utilities and refineries that had deferred maintenance spend you're starting to see -- you're seeing a pickup here over the last few quarters? I'm just trying to get a sense for underlying demand versus the opportunity for you to just increase your share.
I think the consistent cadence over the last 4 or 5 years has been an up step in the trend from our end user strategies.
You've certainly seen where we're running refineries flat out in North America and we'll see a decline year-over-year and that.
But the general underlying theme in our business is as Tom talked about is we're driving aftermarket growth.
That's been a consistent theme for 4 or 5 years.
Our next question comes from Kevin Maczka from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> EPD bookings I'd like to ask a question there.
That was much stronger than we expected in the quarter.
I'm just trying to get a sense for your view of the momentum there because as we go back to last year we had a nice run up there as well from Q1 into peaking in Q3 before it backed off.
And so I know there's some lumpiness here but I think there's also some momentum building in these markets.
So I want to get your sense in terms of timing.
Was this a kind of the stars aligned kind of a quarter? Or would you expect the momentum here to continue? Well the EPD is 2 stories that are really very connected.
The aftermarket growth you're going to see a lot of that in the EPD segment.
So if you look at our valve segment historically that percentage has held consistent because a lot of what's in their OE is quick turn MRO which is like aftermarket but you just replace a piece of equipment.
We've seen good growth in IPD but it's a smaller segment.
So when you think about what drives EPD bookings it's going to be our growth in the aftermarket business.
And yes to your point these projects.
So the opportunities that Tom talked about these longer lead time products fall in the EPD segment.
So I don't know not if it's much of stars aligning.
It can be lumpy.
And oftentimes when we compare year-over-year as we will be next year we may be comparing to the project that we took in this quarter and that was in the EPD segment.
It can be a little lumpy but what you should expect as these opportunities come on these projects that it's going to really benefit the EPD segment.
And as we drive our end-user strategies they will certainly get a significant share of the aftermarket as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in follow-up there.
In terms of pricing so you have the one notable project win in EPD and I think you've said many times that you expect some of these early projects as the cycle builds to be very competitive but you want to stay disciplined on your pricing.
I'm just wondering can you talk about pressures you're feeling from your customers? I think there's been a lot of talk about customers pushing back and rebidding projects.
And how do you just balance that dynamic between customers not wanting to pay more and maybe some of your competitors are willing to be less disciplined than you? Well I still maintain this: As I look at our competitors they are all disciplined and they do things for their reasons.
The way we look at those opportunities is if we can deliver on time to our customer at an appropriate cost.
And I think the message here is we've got to look at efficiency within our facilities to drive more cost efficiencies to be competitive in the market.
I think where 2 competitors in our industry will have difficulty competing one gains in the advantage over the other is if they can't deliver on the lead time if they don't have the technical capabilities if they don't have the product offering if they may not be able to support it over a period of time and that will drive it.
Now does that mean that on a certain bid one might think it's more beneficial than the other and drop their price in the competitive bid process? Yes sure they can do that.
They've always done that.
But you were right customers are demanding value but if you can provide it they're willing to pay for it.
Our next question on the line comes from Andrew Obin from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on M&amp;A environment.
I mean you guys sort of said you will allocate capital in a disciplined way.
Can you just talk about the M&amp;A environment and if you think there are even any targets available in North America? What are you seeing in Europe? What are you seeing in Asia? Just a broad overview.
Because I wonder if anything can be done at all over the next 12 months.
Well I mean I think we've been talking about this environment for a while and we've been able to successfully bring in some bolt-ons over the last couple of years.
There are assets out there.
Some of the larger ones everybody sees and they're going to be fairly competitive in terms of people acquiring.
From our standpoint we really need to look at what we've talked about before.
Can we drive the efficiency and deliver value to our shareholder by loading it onto our platform? One of the advantages we have is we've got a very broad platform sales platform and aftermarket platform which allows us to realize what I would say are the top line in margin synergies in the business and then you can get down to the cost take out.
But I know a lot of the market right now is around SG&amp;A cost takeout or what's driving M&amp;A transactions.
We'll stay to really the strategic value first and being able to drive top line growth and leverage it.
Now taking a step back in the environment right now there are assets out there there are assets that are coming out there.
A lot of people certainly have their eyes on them and we'll just have to be disciplined in the way we approach it.
But as we talked about in our Analyst Day over the next couple of years our cash generation is going to support our ability to take advantage of it.
We're going to stay disciplined.
So it's opportunistic.
If you talk to any company out there it's one of the things that probably have the least control over is when an asset becomes available and is it going to be at the price that they want it.
So we'll keep an eye towards that but at the same time what we want to do is to make sure we're focused on our organic opportunities in improving our business platform.
Because to my comment earlier we've got plenty of room for improvement here.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask you just a follow-up question.
Your execution on relatively weak top line has been pretty good.
How do you balance margins versus execution when volumes start to accelerate? And what are you guys doing internally to make sure that you can execute on higher volumes without negative margin impact? I mean that's a great question and I think that it probably has about a 45-minute answer but I'll try to summarize it for you.
Our lead product secondary product strategy is to where we actually create more capacity in a product line globally.
Not only does it drive efficiency cost efficiency and the ability to deal with higher volumes but it really positions us to be able to take care of customers all around the world and be responsive especially where there's local content that's required.
I think the other thing is just some of our work -- our focused initiatives around some of our facilities to get them improving and get better output.
As I made in my comments earlier in all of our segments particularly in EPD we have the room for improvement in some of our facilities to bring them to a better level of better level of efficiency.
And efficiency doesn't necessarily mean cost reduction oftentimes it means better throughput and really reducing the under absorption in the facility.
So those are the things that we work on.
The discipline around how we'll take an order in and make sure it's clean.
It helps us to drive shorter lead times and more efficiency.
Those are 3 examples of things that we're working on so that at the end of the day it comes back to execution and being responsive to the customers and discipline in how you take these things.
What we don't want to do is set ourselves up in the bidding process to disappoint our customer.
And as Mark mentioned I mean one of the bases for dealing with increased activities is to have a good base to begin with that's where we spend a lot of time on over the last several years getting that on-time delivery correcting the quality right setting up the low-cost sourcing base and making sure that the businesses can take the load and execute on the base and then gives you that opportunity to increase when that volume does start to come through the business.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Mark I think this is probably the most bullish I've heard you on the project cycle since I guess the last recession.
We're always looking at this not being a quarter-to-quarter business and I think there's definitely a big change in tone from the last quarter to this quarter.
Can you just elaborate a little bit more on where that confidence comes from and what you see out there in the market that's giving you the confidence to be a little bit more open about the way you're feeling about the cycle? Well one thing I'll emphasize that where the tone has been consistent is my optimism around the opportunities here in terms of improving the business and our run rate in aftermarket.
But to your point it is good to see some of these longer lead time products come in.
Because we've been having this discussion now for 4 or 5 quarters of the opportunities are on the horizon and we've all been patiently and maybe some folks impatiently waiting for these things to come in.
So I think that's what gives us some encouragement but I definitely want to make sure I'm balanced in saying that a lot of the opportunities are still in front of us.
I think you've heard that generally from the market.
We were pleased to see some of these longer lead time products come in during this period of time.
And I think what's giving the most optimism or what I'm very encouraged about are what was in my comments.
The margin improvement and the progress I'm seeing in this business gives us the platform to really be able to drive growth in this business to remain competitive.
That's what's been more encouraging.
Simply put it's good when a plan comes together.
And we embarked on this a little less than 3 years ago and I'm just -- I think you're hearing more than anything I'm just pleased with the progress.
That's what's driving my optimism more than anything else.
The markets will be what the markets will be.
We know what the secular drivers are in the energy industry around the world.
I know we've got work to do.
I'm also encouraged by that.
As we sit here right now I know we still have 2 2.5 years more work to be able to improve our platform.
So from management's perspective when you have things to work on and your plans are starting to come together and you see your core base business of aftermarket original equipment starting to grow and continuing to grow and now you see some project opportunities come in you're encouraged but you're always balanced to know you still have work to do.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes margin improvements obviously have been excellent.
Assuming that this cycle is as strong as I think most people think it's going to be where are you in terms of capacity I guess just in terms of manufacturing capacity and then project management and all the other things that you need to deal with a big up cycle? I mean that's a good question.
I think in the project management we're still in the early to mid-stages in terms of bringing that discipline to the level where we need it to be and we're working very quickly.
We made a lot of investments in that area.
On the capacity side we have ample capacity.
If you think about what we've added around the world in Brazil and not only was it more square footage but its state-of-the-art and the throughput and efficiency is significantly higher than the other facility that we had.
We've added in China.
We've added our third block in India.
And then I think just our LPO/SPO strategy which brings up a lot of additional capacity we're comfortable with the capacity we have going into this environment.
Especially as we see right now it's more of an orderly cycle than we saw in the last time and that's good for our industry.
So as we look at those 2 aspects of our capacity plenty of square footage not concerned about that.
Some of the resources and capabilities we need to continue to invest in but we're on it.
And then just improving the operations that's one of the best things we can do to create in effect capacity out of the square footage that already exists.
Our next question on the line comes from Jim Giannakouros from Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> If I can tack onto that last question as far as your aftermarket step up to the new run rate that you referenced above $500 million how does that stand relative to your QRC capacity? Is that driving a need to expand it or capabilities above the aforementioned QRC facility construction that you anticipate as the large OE project wins come down the line? The QRCs are one medium one avenue one tool we use to deliver our aftermarket capabilities.
So -- and we've talked about this before.
It's not like a retail model where you have in a sense same-store sales and if you add more facilities that in and of itself will drive your aftermarket.
There's got to be a need for that QRC there.
Oftentimes we are delivering aftermarket capabilities on-site in the facility without a need for a specific QRC.
But having said that our -- we have the opportunity to deploy more QRCs around the world.
That will continue to support our growth.
We just need to make sure there's the market there and the customer is ready for it on the QRC side and really that local presence.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And one follow-up if I may.
Your -- the gross margin progression or the year-over-year improvement that you cited particularly in the EPD but across the board really can you at least rank order if not quantify the drivers that you've called out such as mix and improving backlog quality and the execution on the plant floor et cetera? Probably on a comparative basis if you're looking year-over-year one of the primary drivers was the discipline we put in place 2 years ago.
Somewhat of a contributor has been the operational improvement that we're about halfway through.
To a lesser extent but that will abate as we look at continuous improvement in our facilities and actually as volumes increase absorption.
That hasn't really been as much of a factor.
But if you rank order the 3 that's how we'd rank order them.
By the way there's other things like mix and product offering and things like that that play a factor in it but at the high level in terms of what I'd call the operational excellence things that we're working on here those 3.
That's how I'd rank order them.
So the opportunities are improving the business and then improving absorption in our factories through continues improvement evaluating the capacity that we need but also just volumes as well.
And at this time I see we have no further questions.
If we have no further questions at that point we'll say that we appreciate everybody's participation in today's call and we look forward to seeing many of you at upcoming investor events.
Call Mike Mullin or myself if you have additional questions and this will conclude today's call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Roueche Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation today as we discuss Flowserve Corporation's financial results for the third quarter of 2014 which we announced yesterday afternoon in our press release and Form 10-Q filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Taff Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
Before turning the call over to Mark let me remind you that this event is being webcast and a slide presentation is available.
An audio replay will also be accessible approximately 2 hours following the conclusion of this live call.
Please note that this call and the associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements that are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of October 24 2014.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
And except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of today's forward-looking statements.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release slide presentation and our Form 10-Q as well as our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information.
All of these documents including the live webcast and replay are accessible on our website at www.flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Overall I'm pleased with the results we delivered this quarter and our earnings of $0.93 per share.
Our employees remained focused on the customer the products and services we deliver and their dedication and commitment drove improved margins and higher earnings year-over-year even as revenues were relatively flat on a constant currency basis.
A number of factors impacted the current macroenvironment in the third quarter increasing global uncertainty.
While our execution has continued to improve many of our customers are being deliberate when accepting shipment as some of the products are not on the critical path to project completion.
This impacted revenues in the third quarter by keeping the finished product in our facilities and inventory and represents a continuation of what we saw on the second quarter.
While this is a revenue timing issue for us it may persist as we begin the project cycle.
Additionally revenues for the third quarter were also impacted by a stronger dollar.
Despite less than expected revenues I am pleased we’ve delivered gross margin and EPS improvement this quarter which demonstrates the benefit of our operational improvements aftermarket franchise and the potential for cost leverage with growth.
A key highlight supporting our positive outlook was another quarter of solid bookings including an 8% increase in aftermarket bookings.
Additionally our year-to-date backlog is up 10.4% or 14% on a constant currency basis with the year-to-date book-to-bill of 1.1 times.
Another key strength remains Flowserve’s diverse market and regional exposures.
We again realized strong activity levels in North America particularly within oil and gas which more than offset challenges in our power markets and certain emerging regions.
While emerging regions can be volatile as we’ve recently experienced in parts of Latin America Asia Russia and the Middle East they remain an important and profitable component of our strategic platform and we will continue to pursue disciplined growth in these parts of the world.
Long term we expect continued regional investment in new infrastructure and increased aftermarket services which is why we remain committed to these markets.
In North America oil and gas and chemical investment continued in our mid and downstream markets even as customers pulled back from certain upstream investments.
Although oil prices have been declining of late as many of you are aware Flowserve’s oil and gas focus on a global basis is primarily away from the wellhead and rather in mid and downstream infrastructure.
In these markets short-term oil price volatility historically has had less of an impact as lower feedstock costs can benefit refineries and other process infrastructure.
The associated increased hydrocarbon production also requires more midstream investment which is particularly true in North America.
We don't claim to be totally immune as oil and gas CapEx spend could be impacted at some price but we do believe Flowserve is well-positioned in the current environment.
Looking at the global power market our bookings in this industry declined 11% year-to-date as it continues to be inconsistent and lumpy with regulatory uncertainty.
But we continue to expect that the world will require additional generation capacity over the long term and our capabilities will serve that market well.
Europe remains an important overall geography for us returning to stability over the last year and the region produced bookings growth of over 10% year-to-date.
We continue to monitor the economic indicators in this region but recognize a sizable installed base exist and that our customers intend to keep those assets performing.
For the year Latin America has been a challenge compared to our expectations with year-to-date bookings down about 3.6%.
During the third quarter some Latin American customers continued to invest despite political and financial headwinds which supported 5.7% bookings growth for the region.
Over the long term we see Mexico's decision to open their markets to foreign investment as a positive development and perhaps Venezuela’s foreign financial agreements will also support further investment in the region but we continue to actively monitor and respond to the rapidly changing developments in Latin America.
Asia remained our most challenging region with bookings down roughly 8% through the year as customers reevaluate investments due to slowing growth in the region and the impact of North American shale related to investments versus their local alternatives.
Long term Asia still represents an opportunity for Flowserve as we expand our overall presence to capture additional market share.
From an operating perspective our performance was strong demonstrated by the third consecutive quarter of 35% plus gross margins.
This consistent execution is a result of our strategic initiatives that we began several years ago including One Flowserve project discipline focusing on the customer and tight cost control which ultimately delivers profitable growth in improving shareholder value.
Our progress in these areas has been substantial and we believe this culture is becoming embedded and sustainable across our platforms.
While we’re about halfway through this journey and continuous improvement efforts will never end we are now increasing our focus on growth including accelerated organic investments in products markets and regions that deliver appropriate returns strategic acquisitions and at the same time we’re pursuing initiatives to improve the returns from our asset base through increased manufacturing optimization capacity alignment and improved cost absorption.
As we look at the fourth quarter and into 2015 and beyond I'm encouraged by our profitable growth prospects driven by our demonstrated level of operational excellence in growing backlog and further the level of bids and proposal requests from our customers supporting the expected increase in activity in our core energy markets.
In summary Flowserve is performing well.
We entered 2014 encouraged by the signs of global growth but near-term uncertainty has cropped up during the last few months.
However as we look forward we're encouraged in our ability to deliver growth and continue to believe the long-term secular trends remain very much intact.
We have a stable operating platform and intend to deliver organic growth as well as opportunistically pursuing M&amp;A.
We have capacity in our facilities for significant growth and opportunities for realignment.
And finally we will not take our eye off the ball as we have initiatives for additional operational improvements.
Together we expect this formula will deliver meaningful long-term value to Flowserve’s shareholders.
So with that overview I will turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I am also very proud of the progress we've made in our long-term strategies of operational excellence and customer focus which are becoming sustainable improvements in our culture.
Our employees have embraced these initiatives over the last few years and the results they have driven are significant.
At roughly halfway through the process we envisioned several years ago we remain encouraged by the additional identified opportunities to further improve our performance and better serve our customers.
The company has demonstrated improvements in all key measures of operating performance including margin expansion on-time delivery past due backlog and cost of poor quality.
This progress provides confidence that our strategies customer focus and prioritized investments in the areas such as quality and project management have the Flowserve engine performing at a high level and well-positioned for expected growth bet it organic or through acquisition.
We will continue to pursue additional opportunities to further align our global asset base to drive even higher efficiency utilization and greater return.
Strong margin performance we have delivered highlights our ability to generate earnings despite a relatively flat top line environment.
IPD's notable improvement included a 220 and 250 basis point increase in gross margin and operating margin respectively excluding the impact of a discrete non-cash charge.
While macro uncertainty may challenge our markets we continue to expect growth and intend to leverage it through our stronger platform.
This quarter’s gross margin improvement which included strong aftermarket shipments and the benefit of our consistent disciplined focus on building a quality backlog generated a 30 basis point improvement in operating margins and continued tight SG&amp;A cost management.
Our bookings highlight the quarter and indicate expected growth to come.
Consolidated bookings increased 5% on a constant currency basis led by an 8.1% increase in aftermarket bookings and continued solid run rate OE activity even as most larger projects remained on the horizon.
Last quarter’s strong original equipment bookings in EPD and IPD turned relatively flat this quarter for both segments.
This simply reflects the lumpiness in orders we often experience.
As expected FCD’s third quarter year-over-year bookings improved following the second quarter's year-over-year decline increasing 5% driven primarily by strengthening oil and gas market.
Excluding the divested Naval business from a compared period FCD’s bookings improved 8%.
Turning to our end markets.
Oil and gas was the primary driver of our bookings increase with third quarter growth over 18%.
The recent decline in oil prices and the forecasted reduction in near-term global growth rates have added some uncertainty to the near-term investment from certain customers.
However we believe upstream investment is at greater risk for scrutiny within this context.
And Flowserve’s exposure is more mid and downstream focus.
We continue to expect significant North America activity driven by pipeline construction refinery upgrades gas processing and gas to liquid plants.
We also expect new refining investments to occur in the Middle East Latin America and Asia including clean fuel initiatives.
However some of the investments may challenge the current European refinery market.
Europe is however expected to increase its diesel production.
Brazil is proceeding with further FPSO development.
Longer-term Mexico should present increased opportunities following the recent policy reform intended to increase production levels.
From an oil and gas aftermarket standpoint maintenance activity in the Gulf Coast continued the first half year trend with increased bookings growth compared to levels we saw in recent years.
In the chemical market bookings decreased 1.7% in the third quarter following a strong first half of the year.
New capacity projects in North America continued to advance including ethylene and ethylene-derivative projects driven by the low feedstock costs in the United States.
While the majority of new chemical investment is still expected to occur in developing regions the chemical production capacity in the US is forecast to increase 30% in the next decade.
In the Middle East downstream expansion efforts continue.
Meanwhile Asia and Latin America are reassessing their chemical development plans based on slower economic growth and competing opportunities in the US.
While some European capacity is expected to [cover] -- utilize US ethane.
The power market continues to be our most challenged served industry given the current slower growth environment and the ongoing regulatory uncertainty.
Longer-term we still believe that new generation is required.
China India and Russia are indicating they would pursue fossil-based projects and parts of Europe are even investing in fossil based projects as certain countries retreat from nuclear power.
The Middle East also sees increased needs both in conventional and solar power.
North America and Europe however remain slower in aggregate due largely to conservation the lack of a consistent energy policy and modest energy demand drivers.
The low price of natural gas and recently announced CO2 reduction guidelines however should continue to drive the US combined cycle market subject to adequate pipeline capacity.
Nuclear power remains in transition but China Russia and South Korea see continued development and there are discussions of new capacity in some regions of Europe.
Following its new safety standards Japan is closer to restarting a portion of its nuclear capacity which has been idle since 2011.
Finally natural gas combined cycle plants remain a global opportunity.
Wrapping up we continue to expect significant investments in our key energy markets even as we’ve seen increased macroeconomic uncertainty and forecast for slower growth to further impact the timing of project awards.
However the level of bids and proposals at the current time is encouraging.
Whatever the ultimate timing of these investments I'm confident that we have made the progress necessary over the last few years that would differentiate Flowserve through superior execution capabilities increased capacity and flexibility to adjust our customers’ requirements and changing market conditions.
With that overview let me turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
With Mark and Tom covering our operations and business outlook I will discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Our strong operating performance delivered a $0.03% increase to EPS in the quarter to $0.93 per share in spite of a $25 million reported revenue decline.
Adjusting for currency effects and the impact of the sale of Naval in the first quarter revenues were essentially flat similar to the second quarter.
We continued to experience elevated customer-directed shipment delays during the third quarter which limited our ability to recognize additional revenues from products that were prepared to ship.
As many of you are aware the US dollar strengthened sharply versus the euro and other currencies in September.
At this level it would present a translation headwind to our reported fourth quarter revenues.
Gross margins were again impressive this quarter at 35% and demonstrated our ongoing operational excellence the improved quality of our backlog and the mix benefit of strong aftermarket shipments.
Year-to-date aftermarket bookings were up 7.2% through September and we have now achieved our fourth consecutive quarter of over $500 million in aftermarket bookings.
SG&amp;A expense declined modestly in the quarter and is down year to date as focused cost control remains a priority.
However we continue to make important investments in SG&amp;A at the same time in areas such as R&amp;D quality and project management resources to name a few.
With revenue increases we expect to effectively leverage these costs and therefore we remain committed to our long-term goal of SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales in the 18% range.
Operating margins increased again this quarter with a 30 basis point improvement to 16%.
This level is near the high-end of our previously announced 3-year margin improvement guidance of 15.2% to 16.2% by the end of this year.
Additionally IPD continued its steady progress towards its targeted 14% to 15% range by the end of next year even as it was impacted by $3.5 million non-cash discrete charge this quarter.
Below the operating line other income came in at $5.6 million up almost $4 million from a year ago primarily due to revaluation of net US dollar and US dollar pegged balances around the world.
Our tax rate for the quarter was roughly 29% slightly better than our guidance rate of approximately 30% driven by higher than expected foreign income.
Turning to cash flows.
We generated $137 million from our operations during the third quarter which increased our year-to-date operating cash flow improvement to $17 million compared to last year.
Consistent with our normal seasonality we expect a significant portion of our cash flow to be generated in the fourth quarter.
Our long-term goal remains to consistently generate annual free cash flow near the net income level.
During the quarter share repurchases and dividends used about $57 million of cash as we continued to return capital to our shareholders.
Other spending included capital expenditures of about $30 million and we repaid $10 million of term debt.
Working capital remains a key area focus but progress is slower than desired.
Certain Latin America customers continue to delay payments.
Their balances are not in dispute but this persistent practice has negatively impacted our DSO.
We're monitoring the situation and taking a number of actions but significant improvement will continue to take time and effort.
Inventory balances increased from December 31 due in large part to our growing backlog but are down compared to a year ago.
As such we made modest progress in the quarter increasing turns to 2.8 times from 2.7 times last year.
This improvement reflects our focus on on-time delivery and achieving our fourth consecutive quarter with past-due backlog below 5%.
Moving to our outlook.
We expect another solid fourth quarter reflecting our normal seasonality.
As is typical at this time of year we have narrowed our earnings guidance to reflect our year-to-date results.
For 2014 we’ve tightened the EPS target range to $3.65 to $3.85 per share still within the original range.
This range now suggests a 7% to 13% year-over-year EPS increase.
From a revenue perspective we now expect that line item to be essentially flat on a constant currency basis for the year due in large part to the recent challenges in predicting the timing of revenue recognition primarily the result of customer-driven delays.
The good news looking ahead is our backlog has increased over 10% year-to-date and top line opportunities are still there but predicting the exact timing has shifted somewhat beyond our sole control.
Turning to our capital priorities.
As mentioned earlier we continue to return value to our shareholders and remain committed to our disciplined approach to capital deployment which includes organic and inorganic opportunities.
With our operating platform performing so well we feel opportunistic growth investments will provide solid returns for shareholders.
We also continue to invest in our core existing business furthering our capabilities in emerging regions and supporting our aftermarket Strategies to deliver profitable growth.
One such example is a new initiative recently approved by our board to further expand and consolidate our valve activities in China.
In summary the business has performed exceptionally well during this pause in topline growth.
We've successfully delivered solid earnings increased our backlog in a disciplined manner and positioned the company to pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
Operator we've now concluded this morning’s prepared remarks and would like to open up our call to any questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Charlie Brady of BMO Capital.
Hey Mark could we just get on a little more detail on the shipments? Can you maybe give some more granularity on the magnitude in Q4 and kind of the timing of the delays you're seeing and are you seeing an acceleration in the duration of the timing on those delays? Yeah I mean I think generally the way to look at it is as we brought our past-due backlog down over the last couple of years and improved execution our projects are no longer on the critical path and often times customer isn’t ready for it.
That part of the project they certainly don't want the piece of equipment sitting outside in the elements for a period of time.
So that’s the environment we’re in right now and so what you see is it can push from the end of the month the end of the quarter into the next month.
We saw that in the second quarter and I think in the second quarter it was roughly about 70 million that we anticipated or roughly about $100 million this quarter I think it's important to note Charlie that during these times this can in a sense persist especially for the right reason in that we are executing well and the equipment is available when it should be.
This can be the way these projects go.
These are long cycle projects that take time we are a piece of it.
We are not necessarily the long lead time piece of the equipment as you can imagine but in a complex pump I think has to be ready the engineers have to be ready.
There is a lot of factors -- this kind of goes back to why we’re not a quarter to quarter business it takes years to build these facilities.
So I think just the important thing to keep in mind is these things aren’t going out of backlog these things are not getting canceled because the project is well on its way.
But since we are not on the critical path which is good news for us these things can slip for that period of time and that’s in a sense what we've seen really during the course of this year.
Is that slip – can you – are you seeing most of these 30-day slippages or 90 day slippages or is it? You know it will go project by project.
There are some that we probably ship within a couple weeks after the end of the quarter because remember the project -- the big complex project there's no magic to September 30 right? So some of those may have shipped a little bit afterwards some of them may take some more time and even slip over a couple of quarters.
Again if you see the size and the nature of these projects I don't want to suggest that all these things shipped on October 1 because they didn’t.
How much of the --- one more and I will get back in queue.
On the backlog how much if any of that backlog extends beyond 12 months? Usually we have a year-end disclosure Charlie and I think on the engineered equipment about 85% -- depends on the lead times and the environment we’re in but let's say 80% to 90% of that will typically ship in the subsequent year or be counted in the percentage of completion keep in mind on a long lead time project that sizable you may not -- what you'll be seeing is percentage of completion come through as we build the cost associated with that project.
But in fact some of the equipment can take 40 50 weeks and those are the planned delivery times.
Go back to where we were in '08 - ’09 that was an environment where we were quoting 70 weeks the market was at that point.
But typically these -- a lot of stuff goes within the year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Halloran of Robert Baird.
So kind of sticking on the project side you’re at a very healthy absolute level on the order side and yet you’re still talking about these delays something that we’ve been dealing with a while now.
When you look out there what does it take to reinvigorate this to actually have people say it's time to get these either from the EPC backlogs either the supplier backlog or more aggressively start moving things to the channel? But I think what will need to drive this I think more steady-state and more predictable from our standpoint is a little less volatility around the world because on the margin that will cause folks to delay a decision.
The other thing that will drive these things coming to market quicker is there's a big spike in commodity costs or underlying cost like you saw in 2007 2008 otherwise what you'll see is -- absent those you'll see steady as she goes in terms of how they allocate resources.
But those things can impact that on the margin so if you see all of a sudden economy starting to heat up they will pull these things to market for fear that what happened a number of years ago where the budgets on these go up quickly I don't see a situation like we saw on ‘09 where the market is going to go into price discovery mode because there's been a quick rundown in all commodity costs.
You remember oil I think went down to 40 bucks a barrel at that point in time.
So a shock to the system one way or the other can impact it.
The other thing is going to be I would say country specific.
So whatever the political environment is in that point in time what you’ve seen in Brazil is there was a lot of investment and then the new president came in.
They kind of put the foot on the brakes.
Now there may be a pro business leader that becomes in at that point in time that may drive more spend.
The fact is they do need to monetize those reserves flipside is what you saw on Mexico as they realized they needed to get external investment to drive that more and more and we've seen a pickup there.
In Russia what you’ve seen is some political turmoil and you're well aware of what’s occurred.
So Mike it is going to be country specific but I think the point in terms of the reason we look at these secular spends out there is a lot of these economies are highly dependent on the price on oil and oil production and price has a component to that as you're seeing in the market right now but still production is going to be key to these markets.
Independent oil companies look a little differently.
I think what you've seen is they’ve scaled-back a lot on their upstream investment and returned to shareholders right the sovereign companies they are shareholders with the government those are the kind of things that can impact decisions.
So it's different and absent – Mike absent some broad shock in the system that we saw on ‘09 or a broad impact that we saw on ’07 ’08 with commodity prices coming up.
And then second one is when you look at the quoting activity out there and you look at the stuff that's in your feet how much visibility do you have into your success in those pieces? And I'm assuming that well before an order is actually finalized that you’ve got a good sense for what Flowserve’s odds are on that particular order so maybe just talk about the visibility or maybe talk about the win rate you're seeing and things that haven't yet been booked and are coming to the pipelines? We do monitor all those metrics carefully and a lot of it in terms of your ability to predict success are the specifications – do you have the capabilities do you have superior capabilities relative to maybe some of the other competition? Can you support the equipment afterwards over a period of time do you have a good installed base there? But I can tell you Mike on a lot of these large projects it’s still the environment at the end of the day where it can come down to price.
So we can even be moving to the close on some of these things and if somebody comes in a competitor comes in and drops the price that can certainly impact it.
So I don't want to suggest that we know for certain as we go into these projects because it’s still a competitive market.
That is the way the engineering contracting firms want it.
Having said that the other things that I mentioned certainly give us visibility.
We also think that our ability to execute and respond that’s so critical.
If providing a quality product on time is really at the end of the day some of the cheapest equipment that a customer can buy so that’s -- but we do monitor it.
I can tell you there is -- we look at win rates we look at bid activity.
We look at our customer relationships and I think what we’re trying to tell you what has been encouraging is improvement in the operating platform and that gives us I think better access to our customers and a lot more flexibility in terms of how we approach these markets.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Mark so you’ve had four quarters in a row of over $500 million in aftermarket bookings.
Do you feel comfortable that at this point you've established a new base -- that are about 500 million and given the current global economic environment can you maintain the mid to high single-digit aftermarket bookings growth that you had over the last couple quarters? Well we like the absolute amount to your point and if you look over five years I think we’ve grown this business from about $1.6 billion to now approaching $2.1 billion and that's through a downturn in global economies competitive environments uncertainty we’ve seen oil dip down.
We've seen refinery capacity become available.
We've seen all kinds of things regulation – and the point is it's been a steady growth over that period of time.
You know as well as I do over the long term is – as we hope we continue to grow this business we’re going to be lapping larger numbers.
But the fact is we will also be putting more resources in.
Some of the things that we’ve looked at in terms of growing our business or even investing more in our aftermarket capabilities so I don't want to guide on absolute basis what our percentage growth rate will be but rather point to the fact that we’ve steadily grown this business.
And we still think we have a lot of opportunity to capture installed base which we're not taking care of also the ability to put more quick response centers yield tax service tax at or near all of our customers to buildout the infrastructure in some of the emerging parts of the world where we really don't have the type of presence that we do in parts of Europe and the Gulf Coast region.
That's what encourages us in terms of aftermarket growth.
Marl that's helpful and then maybe if I could ask you a different question on backlog.
Backlog is off as you said 10% -- over 10% year to date which is significantly better than it was at this time last year.
But revenue is currently flat as you said and I know you don’t want to guide to 2015 but how comfortable are you that as we go over the next year or so we should see a decent acceleration in revenue growth from today's levels? Well it really does come down to the question earlier -- most of the backlog that we have in any period of time will execute within a 12 month period.
So if at any compared period you see increased backlog that's one of your best indicators in terms of just the base level amount of backlog what can contribute to revenue growth.
The other thing to take a look at is what are the trends in the book-to-bill and year-over-year bookings growth which you've seen good growth in book to bill year-to-date.
Obviously that feeds into increased backlog but if that's the trend over rolling period what that indicates you is that it can contribute to increasing backlog at various points of time.
I think the third one is looking at growth of the aftermarket business.
High margin high profit business quick turn that will tend to turn over a shorter period of time.
That's what will drive growth.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Scott Graham of Jefferies.
My conversations with you guys last night I just wanted to – a couple of points of clarity.
The push-out of this -- $70 million to $80 million of revenue to push out my understanding was that was all short cycle not project.
No those are various things that could be some shorter thing in some projects.
Those are typically projects.
Typically projects so not a short cycle? Well some run rate business but – and even honestly Scott some aftermarket could have spilled over a couple weeks during that period of time but typically the ones that really kind of get pushed out are the some of the run rates that are going into big upgrades and revamps or some of the what I’d say new builds those have tended to slip because they just don't need the product at that point in time.
On this -- the recapture of this is I'm assuming that none of this is canceled it's in fact what you're saying is pushed out – if you had to hazard a guess on this particularly considering that some of it is a short cycle would you think that maybe half of that gets shipped in the fourth quarter? You know half of it could and then another half could slip into the first quarter next year.
I guess what – some of the questions were about an appropriately -- so is that -- last quarter kind of seemed like 40 million this quarter more like 80 we’re trying to connect the dots therein and see maybe why your tone is maybe not a little bit more pessimistic because you still seem pretty upbeat on the large process project cycle? Well let me tell you first and foremost why I'm encouraged and Scott you’ve followed us and I've known you for 10 years.
I mean the operating platform that we have right now as I said has improved so much that gives us a tremendous amount of optionality in terms of penetrating additional customers growing our business all types of things that we can do.
And I think that's more of the optimism you’re hearing than anything else.
And also we do look at current bidding activity.
To the question earlier I wish we win every bid that we gave but we don't but we monitor the bidding activity and it's been good which is encouraging.
These things have been on the drawing board for a period of time and we knew they were going to come to market and we do certainly see the bidding activity that’s out there.
I think that's what's been encouraging.
If we look back over this year the one thing that we obviously wish we’d have been better would have been on the revenue side and we’ve certainly seen - we had a divestiture the impact of some currency which we can control but in this environment we see these things and move on but they don't go away they do remain in backlog.
So I think in generally we’re encouraged because I think or I know that a lot of the things that we have in our control we've improved on or have the opportunity to improve on.
These things – these microenvironments around the world and foreign currency and things we can control but they do provide opportunities for us.
Keep in mind as the dollar strengthened some of our non-US sites certainly become more competitive globally.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Stephen Fisher of UBS.
Good morning.
Not to beat this topic down too much but wondering if you could just talk a little bit more about why the customers are delaying – I know you mentioned – they have things in the elements – but is it other parts of the supply chain that are not performing or is it more the customer who is just trying to slow things down for either macro reasons or cost reasons? No.
When these things are this far along there's no benefit in slowing things down.
Time is money on these projects and it could be the rest of the supply base but I think moreover no project goes to the exact period of time that it's expected to – or often times they don't.
And I think the more important thing from our perspective is if you’ve monitored our past-due backlog it's come down significantly.
What we've done is taking our equipment off the critical path.
So to your point they may be dealing with another supplier who may be late or not that is a contingency to when they put our equipment but in general when there is -- by the time our equipment is ready to be delivered there's been a substantial amount of investment in the project and there is no benefit in letting that project linger for extended periods of time to anybody.
And just to add to that to what Mark is saying.
I mean these customer ships could take the form of a change if the customer is making to a project late in the quarter so the customer could ask for a performance change due to their process or their engineering several of these are related to inspection delays where we have planned inspections where the customers’ inspectors are coming to a site looking at the product which is all ready to go and they delay that for a day or delay that for a week or so on and so forth.
Some of those are related to customers that don't need the shipment as Mark has mentioned because their schedule may have been elongated or we’re ready to ship much earlier than what they needed for the prior -- to get on site for them to start construction.
So there's a whole host of reasons within that biggest customer shift category that Mark has mentioned.
And Steve I will just say -- again going back to this these are large complex projects and we’ve always tried to maintain we’re not a quarter-to--quarter business and they are certainly not a quarter to quarter project.
But that gives you a flavor of -- what we don't want to suggest – I think everybody gets concerned is that these revenues are going to go away like in the retail industry they don't.
And just trying to think about how much more runway you have for margin improvement from your operational initiatives given that you still have a couple years left – and I think based on some of the targets it’s maybe 100 to 200 basis points from here.
So first I guess is that correct? And then to what extent are you finding some new areas of improvement to address? Well in general -- what we don't want to do is -- we have guidance out there to the end of the year and we certainly don't want to spike the ball before the end of the game.
But as you can see we've made very good progress.
We do have the opportunity for margin improvement going forward.
I think that'll obviously be something we talk about going forward as we look at -- what I would say is the next steps in this business and I think what we tried to communicate is we spent the last three years heads down focused on improving our operations we're not done but what we've done is we brought it to the point now where we can start dialing up our organic growth opportunities and investing for growth and taking advantage of some opportunities we have to even drive more efficiency in our manufacturing platform.
All of those things as you can see growth we’re going to get leverage in our business driving efficiency will contribute to the gross margin line and the operating margin line.
We will get cost leverage in our business growing our aftermarket business and even doubling down on that will help with the margins as well.
So what I'm trying to do is piece together something that we will continue to talk about as we look forward where we think we can drive growth and margin opportunity in our business.
But we still want to get where we told you we were going to be.
I mean IPD's not there yet it's made great progress I think all through a little sceptical at points in time but look at the progress they've made.
And we’re within the 150 to 250 actually kind of towards the high end but as I said we’ve got one quarter to go to the end of the year.
And we feel pretty good about things.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chase Jacobson of William Blair I just wanted to kind of ask about that cost optimization again.
Going back to the analyst meeting it sounded like you were mostly complete with the cost initiatives and you were moving on to more internal investment for growth.
And Mark in your prepared comments you talked about accelerating the internal investment but you also talked about more room for cost improvements et cetera.
Just curious as to if this is the result of a change in the growth expectations based on what we've seen over the last few quarters including the delays and just the macro volatility or if this is just more of finding areas in your business to improve? Actually that is exactly the message we wanted to make sure you didn't take away from this.
No it's not that we have any concerns over growth.
Back to my comments originally when you're in a strong up cycle you’re doing everything you can to deliver your customers.
When things turn down as they did in ’09 and ‘10 you’re trying to drive costs out but it's fairly inefficient.
And as you're trying to improve your business the last thing you want to do is start consolidating and rationalizing capacity because that will impact your execution.
It’s – you don't want to do those things simultaneously unless you’re in a big post-acquisition mode.
So what we see with a more stable platform is the opportunity especially since we've added a lot in the emerging parts of the world they start to drive more efficiency and some of our capacity around the world.
That's what a smooth operating platform offers to us.
We have plenty of capacity to deal with growth and in fact some of those activities ultimately hold capacity on an execution basis neutral or increase it.
So what you're seeing is a level of confidence in our operating platform which we believe gives us the opportunity to do some things that will really drive long-term value in our business.
And I would add to Mark I have to say that over time a business will transition through looking at various things to work on cost.
So initially it may be lower hanging-fruit opportunities on the supply chain side.
It may be Six Sigma and quality initiatives initially.
As we now move through our cycle over the last several years we have some different opportunities coming up like Mark mentioned in terms of manufacturing optimization manufacturing efficiency taking a look at our wide network determine how to optimize that network for the highest gross margin in the business as we look at the product organization and secondary product organization.
So I look at this as just a natural transition that an organization goes through as it looks at gross margin improvement over time.
And the other question was just on working capital.
I guess for Mike you've had these targets out there for a while -- you're making progress has been slower than on the margin side.
Are you changing the way that you are approaching the working capital improvements at all? If there's anything that you can point to kind of help us see how you are going to move quicker in the direction towards your targets that would be helpful.
No Chase I would say not changing anything.
I think we’ve reached some different phases obviously we went through – it’s kind of three phase approach as I have looked at it kind of an assessment phase and then we’ve developed tools and now we are in the implementation phase.
And we’re right in the middle of that implementation phase which will take over the next 12 to 18 months to get it fully implemented.
So we’re still 18 24 months away from fully achieving those goals and getting it spread throughout the whole organization.
But I do think we've reached the important phase of implementing the new tools and process and procedures.
It’s just going to take time to get it implemented throughout the whole organization.
We’ve got 220 plus occasions that generate revenues and where we get to manage inventory and drive better collections.
So I think the tools we’ve created as well as the process and procedures will serve us well down the road.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Andrew Obin of Merrill Lynch.
Just a question – just a follow-up on cash flow.
So you noted that some of your customers sort of – I guess I don't know how to put it -- don't like to pay on time or are not particularly nice to you when it comes to working capital.
So when you talk about free cash flow improvement going forward are you going to change how you do business with these specific customers or these guys will basically remain a permanent drag on free cash flow because they are large and that's how they do business and you are just going to get paid towards the tail end of the cycle? I think these things kind of ebb and flow by various customers.
The most important thing is you just determine creditworthiness and some of them tend to pay slower I can tell you the sovereign state amenities tend to be slower than the independents.
And so if there's mix shift part of going to the emerging parts of the world is they do tend to play slower and then there could be anything short-term with those customers that can cause some of the drag things out.
So what I will tell you is I think we will always have some element of this overall in our business in terms of dealing with some sovereigns that will pay when they're ready to.
And I think the important thing too is certainly we price that into I mean we’ve got to understand what those payment terms and work hard to negotiate better terms and conditions which include payment terms but also understanding when that comes in and make sure that’s priced into our bids.
And I would add on the working capital side that in several instances a lot of it is related to maybe documentation.
A lot of is related to issue resolution that goes through a particular process itself and as a result some of the customers get a little bit stickier with their cash.
So in regards to your question – are we starting to do things differently with the customers I would say absolutely yes and making a very systemic deep into the organization with good clean purchase orders good schedules with defined documentation steps when we get into a problem we resolve -- trying to resolve the problem quickly and getting the customer to acknowledge the resolution of that problem when it gets done.
All those things we found are also ingredients of a good working capital program.
Can I step back and ask a bigger picture question? Every day I am getting calls from investors telling us that the energy cycle is over oil is going to $70 positive correlation between oil and downstream spend -- not much I can tell them because we are not really going to find out as to what's going to happen for the next six to nine months with these big schedules.
But what I want to ask you guys what really stood out about your business model back during the downturn is the resiliency of the business model and lack of cyclicality for what is perceived to be a very cyclical business.
And the pushback I get is well this was the time when Flowserve was really changing its business model and if something similar happens today the business model is just not going to be as resilient in terms of earning sustainability.
What do you guys say about that sort of the performance of the business model during a shock period as the company stands today? Well I will just say that I mean the business model worked in a shock that’s far more than anybody is considering at this point in time.
Going to the price of oil let me just take a step back.
I mean remember there was a bigger shock a number years ago and investment continued why – I mean if you look at it right now -- right now where you see the price of oil it's more of a supply issue than it is a demand issue.
Nobody's saying that there is permanent demand destruction that the Chinese are no longer buying more cars; urbanizing there is no need for hydrocarbons anymore.
What you see right now is more of the supply issue.
So when you look on the upstream side you can see where people are moderating their investments for a period of time not 30 years because there is no perception that demand is going to go away.
But over the short-term they may moderate it.
Now that will typically be as I described earlier the independent oil companies.
When you look at the sovereigns when you look at the government-owned entities as I mentioned earlier production is correlated to their economies some very highly correlated somewhat notably correlated.
You start moving downstream if you think about the key around suppliers I mentioned earlier transportation is not there particularly in the United States.
Look at all the production that we’ve had at the well site and yet we can't get it to market.
We need more transportation and storage which will support more midstream investment.
And then if you go further on the downstream side there's a number of factors there.
None of us buy a barrel of oil and put it in our car or put it in an airplane.
So the fact is as long as there's commercial demand out there you’re going to need downstream processing capabilities to serve those markets because the real value in a barrel of oil is the ability to turn it into something that somebody is going to use.
The other thing to think about is people could have called the ball on natural gas a couple years ago down at $2 to $3 and saying boy that's going to go away.
Well what was the knock-on effect there? The knock-on effect was they were starting to use that as a low-cost feedstock and driving to the processing site.
So processing is really going to be driven by the downstream by demand which again nobody's indicating is going away.
Demand for bearing products demand also for bearing cost of feedstocks and availability of feedstocks.
Also there's an independence element to that.
I am reasonably confident that the United States will never shut down all the refining capacity because then they'd be at the mercy of some other country.
So if you think about it I don’t think anybody's indicated that the 10 20 30 year demand for energy in the sector spend is going away but on the margin maybe some upstream investment might be moderated some we still think that's a good opportunity long-term.
But it creates other opportunities out there and a great example is going back to ’09 and ’10 while it was competitive there was still a lot of infrastructure that was built on the heels of a significant global shock.
So hopefully that helps on oil.
Everybody gets focused on the price of oil and to your point a comment about our resilience -- I don't know what's different about our company as opposed to when we went through a severe cycle other than our aftermarket capability and presence is bigger.
Our footprint is bigger to even take advantage of more local market opportunities that are out there.
Our product offering is broader not only just to the oil and gas the knock on chemical business other things that are there.
And the other thing that I can tell you is as opposed to five years ago four years ago installed base out there is now four or five years older than it was then.
So that hasn't changed.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Nathan Jones of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus</strong> Good morning everyone.
And thanks for that great explanation to Andrew's question.
That was very helpful.
In your prepared remarks you talked about Europe being -- I think it was 11% up year-to-date.
Is there any way to parse out what is OE versus aftermarket in that growth? There is but we probably have to get back to you.
I have a lot of numbers in my head but that’s one of them that I have got.
Nicolaus</strong> Fair enough.
No worries.
$80 million of delays -- is it possible for you to parse out kind of what the impact of your better on-time delivery on that has been rather than just customers delaying shipment? I mean I can tell you going to last year and years prior where our backlog was up in the high single digits low double digits.
One thing we knew was when that product was ready it was going to be taken.
And we cleared a lot of – if you will actually look at the year-over-year compare a lot of last year was in a sense driven up from prior years because we had a lot of past-due backlog to get out the door and this year it's certainly less of the case.
So we always want to continue to -- we want to have zero past-due backlog frankly but the fact is we've driven it down quite a bit with improved execution and that just means it's not on the critical path.
So what I will tell you is as long as we continue to execute well and the other factors that I described to you don't come into play that is for some reason they need to accelerate these projects for fear that costs are going to go up significantly like you saw on our way – or I can’t imagine at this point of this investment cycle on these projects which would cause them to shut the project down because there’s already – they bought the land held the piping there the long lead time vessels are there and I guess I could [add] them something but the fact is I think that's what's going to drive it over that period of time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
The first question is on 4Q.
I take a look at your implied revenue guidance.
Keeping flat for the year implies that the sequential uptick is at about 20% and if I look back at your prior three years it was pretty consistent -- 4Q versus 3Q at roughly 13% to 14% sequentially.
So can you just talk a little bit about the confidence in that type of sequential growth uptick in 4Q? Yeah and if you’d allow me let me give you the opportunity.
I think there's been some confusion.
When we talked about our guidance relatively flat constant currency basically what we’re saying is we see revenues flat for the year and when you look at our P&amp;L remark around constant currency was if there is any significant moves in currencies from this point on obviously that’s going to impact it as you saw it did even in the month of September Q3.
So let me make sure we clear that up.
Now as we look going forward we've seen some slippage.
We've taken that into consideration in our guidance.
We have more backlog than we did last year if you think about it the backlog was up for instance last year.
The aftermarket backlog is up versus last year.
So that's the underpinning where -- why we put out relatively flat for the year which you can reverse engineer to what you have as a fourth quarter revenue number.
And maybe asking -- following up on that a little bit -- how much of what you already have in your backlog is going to burn through in 4Q? Do you have that number? Well no no hand-off.
I mean it’s going to be project by project.
Again aftermarket tends to be shorter cycle the run rate business does as well but -- I can tell you the way we run our business we go side-by-side in we forecast as we look at the projects when they’re due -- when we expect them to do what we’re hearing from the customer that can obviously change.
But that's certainly how we build up the forecast.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research.
Actually just following up on Joe's question.
So the implied flat full-year guidance and what it implies actually for the fourth quarter.
I mean it seems like you are assuming that the delays of $80 million would likely have been shipped in the fourth quarter and there's probably no new delays that emerge.
And that actually would probably take the sequential cadence down to a more normalized level between Q3 and Q4.
So is that the way we should be thinking that it is being planned or not? I think I’ve made my comments – I mean this could persist things slipping from one quarter to the other.
But the point is what’s slipped into this last quarter maybe next quarter and what may slip going forward keep in mind Q4 as consistently I can't think of a quarter certainly since I've been here is our biggest shipment quarter.
There is a whole host of reasons for that.
Lot of customers their budgets reset at the beginning the year.
They want to make sure they get things in especially in emerging parts of the world.
It's just the way the cadence of our business is a lot of stuff is shipped in Q4.
So when we look at our forecast what we did is we built it up by the project we look at our run rate business and our quick ship business and that's how we forecast Q4.
Things can impact that.
Obviously if there's some big push to get all the equipment in that could create an upward bias.
If there's for some reason people would even slow down little bit further that could impact it as well and obviously who knows what’s going to happen with currency at that point in time.
But really our forecast in the fourth quarter is based on -- if you look sequentially over the last couple of years it’s been well over 100 million Q3 to Q4 increase in our revenue side.
And the underlying that in the EPS is what component of that is run rate and aftermarket business versus some projects.
Obviously aftermarket has more contribution to the EPS line.
And I guess just kind of my follow-on question really had to do around incrementals because to get to the midpoint of the EPS range for the year implying back now for Q4 is about $1.14 -- it suggests the incremental is quite high to get there and that is I think as you are saying that is actually more mix than anything or are there other items that could help that? Also it’s fixed cost leverage.
If you look at our leverage across G&amp;A but Brian that's why we put a range out there is because if we could -- if we could predict to a point in time that’s just not the nature of our business again in our world a project is years not days that's typically why we have out there.
And we just take assumptions at a point in time we have a currency in a point of time we look at our backlog and the things that you mentioned as well we’ve got of a higher aftermarket backlog than we had at this time last year.
We look at things like that to say.
But what – there is a lot of things that can happen.
I mean look at what happened with low-lying currency you this quarter that can flip next quarter.
We can't predict that or forecast that we don’t even try.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for the call.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
My name is Paulette and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
You may begin.
III - Treasurer &amp; Vice President-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss Flowserve Corporation's 2014 fourth quarter and full-year financial results which we announced yesterday afternoon in our press release and Form 10-K filing.
Joining me on the call this morning are: Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Taff Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call up to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
Before turning the call over to Mark let me remind you that this event is being webcast and a slide presentation is available.
An audio replay will also be accessible approximately two hours following the conclusion of this live call.
Please also be aware that this call and the associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements that are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of February 18 2015.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
And except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of today's forward-looking statements.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release slide presentation and our Form 10-K filing as well as other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information.
All of these documents including the live webcast and replay are accessible on our website at Flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Overall we delivered strong operating and financial results for the fourth quarter which ensured a solid full year 2014.
We operated at a very high level throughout the year and I am pleased that our employees have strengthened their customer focus and demonstrated commitment to raising the bar through our Performance Culture initiative.
These efforts are delivering value for our customers and ultimately for our shareholders.
Equally important I believe our actions in 2014 will better position the company for 2015 and beyond.
Even though Flowserve is currently operating at its highest level of performance there remains heightened market uncertainty following the rapid decline in oil and headwinds from the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
While we can't influence the markets we are focusing on what is within our control namely continuing to deliver for our customers operational excellence tight cost control pursuing disciplined investments to drive sustainable long-term growth and returning capital to our shareholders.
This formula served us well in the past market cycles and we believe it is the logical course now.
Additionally we expect this current market environment will provide us additional opportunities to grow our market leadership from a position of strength.
With the strong results and improvements that we've delivered over the past few years we have full confidence in Flowserve's operating platform.
In light of recent commodity price movements I believe it's important to clarify our exposure to oil and gas.
In 2014 what we label oil and gas represented about 43% of our consolidated bookings.
Our largest oil and gas exposures are in the mid and downstream markets accounting for roughly 75% to 80% of our total oil and gas exposure.
Even more relevant the over 80% of our company's revenue is aftermarket in what we call run-rate original equipment which both entails serving existing permanent assets in place and relying more on maintenance budgets than capital spending.
We expect current price levels will significantly reduce demand for new upstream oil and gas projects as we've seen from recent customers' CapEx announcements.
However this type of project represents only a modest portion of our total oil and gas exposure.
Considering the oil price decline is not primarily a demand issue but rather supply driven this time our midstream and downstream customers continue to operate their facilities at high utilization rates and their out-of-service cost far exceeds that of proper repair maintenance and replacement that our aftermarket and run-rate activities represent.
This is not to suggest we're immune to market dynamics and commodity price.
However we believe the current market and its impact is very different from 2009 when virtually all industries were impacted.
And we continue to believe our company's overall diversification remains one of our greatest strengths.
For instance many of the industries that comprise the other 57% of our consolidated bookings can actually benefit from lower oil and gas prices.
Additionally in 2014 we experienced solid activity levels demonstrated by a book-to-bill of 1.06 and a near $150 million increase in backlog.
On a currency neutral basis that better indicates actual activity levels bookings grew about 8% for the year including over 11% in the fourth quarter with December serving as our strongest bookings month.
I believe our employees' focus on serving the customer led to this strong performance.
Our full-year bookings growth was primarily driven by our oil and gas and chemical markets and to a lesser extent general industries.
Geographically we delivered growth in all regions except Asia-Pacific.
Strength in North America continued through the fourth quarter.
And while Europe declined in the quarter it follows several prior quarters of year-over-year growth implying it is mainly a timing issue.
The Middle East returned to growth in 2014 following two challenging years and we expect the region to continue investing to increase higher-value downstream production.
Growth in Latin America for the year was driven by a very strong fourth quarter.
As Tom will mention this required some significant redirection on our part.
And we believe political and currency challenges may continue to present headwinds for certain national oil companies.
Asia slowed in 2014 representing our only regional market that declined for the year.
We continue to expect long-term growth in Asia and our objective remains to further increase our presence.
Turning to our end markets while the visibility into our oil and gas customers' spending plans for 2015 remains limited as I previously mentioned we believe the announced CapEx reductions will have a lesser impact on our aftermarket and run-rate activity and midstream and downstream spending in general as opposed to upstream CapEx driven projects.
Long term we believe in the upstream markets and will continue to pursue growth opportunities in this area.
We see growth prospects from our chemical markets in 2015 and would highlight the ethylene expansion in the Gulf Coast region as a leading indicator since those projects have yet to significantly reach procurement stage for many of our offerings.
While power markets have been competitive over the last few years we continue to expect Asian investment to support growth.
Fourth quarter bookings strength reflected nuclear activity in China as well as solar investments in Africa and Latin America.
The growth and quality of our backlog and its broad exposure to industries and geographies increases my confidence that Flowserve's diversified model is the right one to pursue.
I also want to emphasize the highly synergistic nature of our original equipment and aftermarket activities.
Our 200-year-plus history of installed base provided the opportunity for us to grow and build the $2.1 billion aftermarket franchise as well as the run-rate business.
Likewise our aftermarket capabilities and our global footprint now serve as a competitive advantage when selling original equipment and then the process repeats.
These two aspects of our business truly do leverage each other and they are critical together for our ongoing success.
In addition to solid bookings Flowserve drove meaningful gross margin expansion which drove operating margin improvement in 2014.
This level of operational excellence demonstrates the success of the initiatives we've undertaken to drive results from within the four walls of Flowserve.
The progress we've delivered provides the foundation that underlies our disciplined profitable growth plans for 2015 and beyond including R&amp;D expansion new product development aftermarket acceleration leveraging the recent SIHI acquisition and increasing market share.
As top line growth returns Flowserve has good opportunities for SG&amp;A leverage that would provide further operating margin growth.
Even in the current macro environment we have industry-specific plans to grow our business including in chemical and emerging market power.
And with our solid capital structure we will continue to evaluate and pursue disciplined M&amp;A opportunities.
And I am confident that our operating excellence strategies including One Flowserve and our culture of continuous improvement has positioned us to capture synergies across our business drive further margin expansion expand organically and leverage our operating platform to efficiently integrate any bolt-on acquisitions.
We will remain committed to disciplined profitable growth and long-term value creation for our shareholders.
And in periods of market uncertainty we will focus on the areas we can control.
We believe we can capture more value from our $2 billion-plus aftermarket franchise which has consistently demonstrated resiliency even through challenging project environments.
Our diverse geographic and end-market exposures should again serve us well as we flex the business to areas with greater market opportunities when others are challenged.
While we will take advantage of opportunities to adjust our cost structure and operating platform our vision is long term and we will remain focused on investing in the business and our people while we advance our culture of performance.
In summary we expect to profitably manage and grow our business to create long-term value for you our shareholders.
Let me now turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'm also very proud of the performance we delivered in 2014.
We continued to strengthen our operational foundation building upon our long-term strategy to increase our operating excellence efficiency and flexibility.
As Mark indicated the Flowserve engine is operating at a very high level.
This is a clear testament to our employees and their embrace of our strategic vision execution focus and service to our customers.
We were very pleased with our ability to flex the business across Flowserve's diverse end market and regional exposures while tightly controlling our cost structure.
Although the larger project work did not materialize during 2014 which limited our revenue growth we still delivered meaningful margin improvement at both the gross and operating line largely just from the run-rate business and aftermarket franchise.
In fact we reached the top end of our three-year margin target in spite of the continued project delays and increased macro uncertainty in some of our markets.
The operational performance we delivered truly highlights the competitive advantage that exists in Flowserve with its diverse end markets and geographies.
While pleased with the operating levels we have obtained I am also confident that potential for further improvement remains.
Our culture of performance positions us to capture additional identified opportunities through quality initiatives project management supply chain low-cost sourcing and new product introductions to name a few.
Our continued effort will enhance our performance better serve our customers drive profitable organic and inorganic growth and ultimately deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
Over the last three years we have made investments and progress to increase our operating platforms low-cost manufacturing capability and flexibility.
This effort results in an improved ability to shift with the changing activity levels within our served regions and end markets.
Latin America in 2014 is a market that epitomizes this flexibility.
For instance we experienced lower activity levels from certain customers in Venezuela and Brazil during the year which would have otherwise presented headwinds for us.
However we successfully shifted meaningful parts of our Latin America business to Mexico Colombia Argentina and Chile which overcame the other countries' decline and drove solid results for the region.
Turning to our growth outlook our strong fourth quarter bookings reflected solid activity levels across all of our end markets with the exception of water which is only a modest exposure for us.
We ended the year with a backlog of $2.7 billion a near 12% constant currency increase over 2013 year-end levels.
More importantly the quality of the backlog continued to improve throughout 2014 which provides our confidence in reaffirming our 2015 targets today.
As you have heard we intend to continue to drive growth in our aftermarket franchise.
In 2014 our initiatives to greater utilize our aftermarket business delivered strong full-year bookings with growth of nearly 9% on a constant currency basis including the fourth quarter's record level bookings of over $550 million.
Our aftermarket footprint and capabilities also provide a competitive advantage when pursuing original equipment work where we delivered constant currency bookings growth of over 7% during the year.
With the larger OE projects still on the horizon we again derived the vast majority of our OE bookings from run-rate activity.
Turning to our end markets in more detail oil and gas growth continued in the fourth quarter as bookings increased over 12% on a constant currency basis even with the sharp oil price decline that was occurring during the period.
We also saw the continuation of 2014's year-long trend with increased aftermarket bookings in the southern U.S.
and Gulf Coast regions during the fourth quarter as downstream players were catching up on prior deferred maintenance.
As Mark discussed with most of our oil and gas exposure in the mid and downstream markets we expect less of an impact from the oil price.
While we recognize the overall pressure being exerted across all phases of the oil and gas industry we continue to have opportunities in selected regions for upstream midstream and downstream work particularly in our run-rate and aftermarket businesses.
Upstream OE project work which represents a modest exposure for us faces the most risk at current commodity levels.
And this portion of the market has certainly seen some increased delays and cancellations.
However even with our upstream work we continued to see aftermarket activity mainly from our exposure to oil sands production and FPSO vessels.
Of course we do not say that we are immune to the commodity price or the energy complex but we do feel pretty well positioned overall and even expect some of our other industry exposures to benefit from these low prices such as the chemical and power markets.
As the energy markets digest the current conditions our improved operations and the flexibility I spoke of earlier provide opportunity to capitalize on the investment that does take place around the world.
For instance Mexico plans to increase its production.
The Middle East desires to climb the value chain further into refined products and clean fuels as well as other refining activity in certain Asian markets provide just a few examples.
In the chemical market fourth quarter bookings increased over 15% on a constant currency basis.
New capacity projects in North America continued to advance with six of the 12 planned ethane crackers currently under construction with the remainder in various stages between feasibility to permitting.
As discussed the pace of bidding activity has been deliberate by our customers and most of the opportunities are still ahead but these could remain tempered by the general macro conditions.
We continue to expect to participate in these new capacity additions on the Gulf Coast as the procurement process has yet to reach the stage that includes many of our products.
In the Middle East expansion efforts continue.
Meanwhile Asia and Latin America are reassessing their chemical plans based on slower economic growth there and competing opportunities in the U.S.
while some European capacity is expected to utilize U.S.
ethane.
In January 2015 we increased our chemical presence substantially with the acquisition of SIHI.
While it is still early days we believe the integration process of this business is progressing well and that our potential to leverage top line and cost synergies is significant.
We are excited about the possibilities with SIHI as part of Flowserve.
The power market delivered particularly strong fourth quarter bookings with a 19% increase over last year.
Strong nuclear activity in China and solar projects in Africa and Latin America provided part of the pickup.
North America power remains challenged for most fuel sources given the current slower growth environment and ongoing regulatory uncertainty.
However the low price of natural gas and the announced CO2 reduction guidelines are helping drive the U.S.
combined cycle market subject to adequate pipeline capacity.
Longer term we still believe that new generation is required globally.
China India and Russia are indicating they will pursue fossil-based projects.
Our recently completed Block III in Coimbatore India will provide a platform to capture power market opportunities in their country.
Parts of Europe are even investing in fossil-based projects as certain countries retreat from nuclear power.
The Middle East also sees increased needs both in conventional and solar power.
Nuclear power remains in transition.
But China Russia and South Korea see continued development and there are discussions on new capacity in some regions of Europe.
India's new proposed agreement with the U.S.
that will limit nuclear suppliers' liability could potentially be a meaningful catalyst for work in that country.
Europe's aging fleet also may provide us future work as life extensions over the next several years take place.
Following their new safety standards Japan is getting closer to restarting a portion of its nuclear capacity which has been idle since 2011.
Finally natural gas combined cycle plants remain a global opportunity.
Wrapping up we believe that Flowserve's high level of operational performance and diverse exposure provides us a level of resiliency and flexibility to adjust to target and capture market opportunities where they occur even in times of increased uncertainty.
We will execute initiatives to accelerate our aftermarket and chemical growth and target opportunities in emerging power markets such as India and China regional upstream oil and gas opportunities particularly in the Middle East and then mining.
In addition I am also confident that our operating platform supports our acquisition strategy of efficiently integrating bolt-on businesses to drive long-term profitable growth.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Mike Taff.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Mark and Tom have discussed our operational overview and business outlook in detail.
So let me finish with a quick discussion of our financial results.
Our results finished at the upper end of our preview range that we provided in late January.
I'll provide some additional details then discuss the 2015 guidance.
As you have heard Flowserve finished 2014 performing at a high level.
With sales of nearly $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter we grew constant currency revenues by over 5%.
For the full year constant currency revenues were up modestly but this level was below our original expectation.
Essentially large project opportunities did not occur when anticipated.
We divested the Naval business and experienced some customer-directed shipment delays which all had an impact on revenue recognition.
Turning to margins 2014 was the first year that each quarter delivered gross margins over 35% exceeding even our expectations.
For the fourth quarter gross margin was 35.2% an improvement of 130 basis points from the prior year.
For the full year our gross margin improved 110 basis points over prior year averaging the fourth quarter level at 35.2%.
SG&amp;A dollars decreased for both the fourth quarter and full year by nearly $9 million and $30 million respectively.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A declined by 60 basis points in the quarter and by 30 basis points for the full year to 18.2% and 19.2% respectively.
We will continue to work towards our goal of lowering SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to 18% over the next few years.
Solid gross profit improvement combined with a reduction in SG&amp;A drove a 200 basis point improvement in operating margins for the fourth quarter to 17.3%.
For the full year we delivered a 90 basis point improvement in operating margins to 16.2%.
This level reached the top end of our goal we originally set in early 2012 which was to increase operating margins 150 to 250 basis points by the end of 2014.
Below operating income our fourth quarter tax rate of 29.4% and full-year rate of 28.4% both which were generally in line with our original tax rate guidance of 30%.
Turning to cash flows we finished the year strong reflecting the typical seasonality of our business.
Flowserve generated $445 million in operating cash flows in Q4 alone an increase of nearly 18% over prior year.
For the full year our cash flow from operations of $571 million represents a 17% increase over 2013 levels.
While I am pleased with this strong performance we will stay focused on improving Flowserve's cash generation.
Our goal remains to consistently generate free cash flow near our net income level.
Our capital expenditures for the year of about $133 million was well below our last updated forecast as some of our spending on the new Chinese valve facility slipped into 2015.
However even at the reported level our spending level was above our rate of depreciation.
This investment demonstrates our commitment to invest in organic opportunities for the long-term growth of our business including increased capabilities to serve the emerging regions.
Returning capital to shareholders is also a key priority.
And in 2014 we returned $332 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases representing about 64% of our net income.
This was a result of our strong cash flows and as we increased allocation to repurchases at attractive values in the final quarter of 2014.
We maintained substantial financial flexibility at year end with a gross leverage ratio of 1.3 times EBITDA and well within our stated one to two times range.
This capacity in our range enables us to pursue investment opportunities that generate long-term profitable growth such as the recent SIHI acquisition.
Turning to working capital Flowserve made modest progress.
We reduced our dollar inventory by $60 million.
Inventory turns improved to 3.6 times a 0.1 turn improvement over 2013 and we increased our on-time delivery and drove the past-due backlog below 4%.
Our focus on receivables produced a two day DSO improvement versus 2013 levels.
With our project management team focused on improving the working capital processes across our operating platform I remain confident that Flowserve will make meaningful strides in 2015 towards reaching our targeted DSO level in the mid-60 days.
Moving to our 2015 outlook and EPS guidance we are reaffirming our full-year adjusted EPS guidance of $3.60 to $4.00 a share.
This range includes $0.20 per share of above-the-line currency impact using year-end 2014 foreign exchange rates.
Obviously the dollar has strengthened from year end.
And should this level continue throughout 2015 it would result in an impact larger than $0.20.
The adjustment in our guidance for 2015 excludes primarily the dilutive impact of the recent SIHI Group acquisition and any below-the-line currency impact.
Similar to recent years 2015 should reflect our traditional seasonality with earnings more weighted to the second half of the year.
Additionally we expect the first half of the year to experience the largest year-over-year comparable challenge due to the stronger U.S.
dollar last year's $12.6 million first quarter gain on the sale of Naval and potential oil and gas spending pressure.
We remain committed to executing on our strategy of efficient capital deployment including annually returning 40% to 50% of our two-year average net earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
At year end $464 million remained available under our current share repurchase plan authorization.
As evidence of our commitment earlier this week our Board approved a 12.5% increase in the quarterly per share dividend to $0.18 per share for the next quarterly payment.
This represents our fifth consecutive annual double-digit increase in our per share dividends.
Including 2014's carryover amount we expect to invest $150 million to $160 million in capital expenditures during 2015.
At this level we will continue to profitably grow our business organically and to further increase our capabilities around the world.
On a final note we announced this morning that I will be leaving Flowserve in the coming weeks.
I have very much enjoyed my time with the company and I am proud of the finance team we have in place today and their many accomplishments.
However as some of you know I have maintained my residence in Houston throughout my three-plus year tenure at Flowserve commuting back and forth each week.
I believe that as Flowserve enters this new phase of its growth plan this serves as a good time for new finance leadership to take the helm as I return to my family full time and pursue future endeavors back in Houston.
Clearly I will continue to do whatever is needed to ensure a smooth transition and I will remain a proud Flowserve shareholder as I believe this company has a very bright future ahead.
Let me now return the call to Mark.
Thank you Mike.
On behalf of the Board the senior management team our employees shareholders and other Flowserve constituencies we very much thank you for your service with the company.
You're leaving the finance organization in better shape than you found it and we very much appreciate the finance leadership team you have assembled.
Our leadership team is confident they will rise to the occasion as we patiently search for our new CFO.
Our standards will be high looking an operationally focused financial leader who has bandwidth for further career progression.
It has been a pleasure working with you and we wish you all the best in the times ahead.
Operator we will now open up the call to any questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from Charlie Brady from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Charlie.
Mike sorry to see you go but I totally understand the reasons why you're doing that.
Thank you.
A quick question on IPD and the bookings that were down.
I know in the slides you talked about some of the end markets.
But maybe you can go into a little more detail on what you're seeing just within industrial products.
And on the flip side of that obviously the margins there were pretty strong.
Can you talked about what drove the margin performance there anything one-off that pushed it higher that may not in the near term? So Charlie just some of you folks may have had difficulty hearing that.
The question was around IPD bookings Q4-over-Q4 and then the margin improvement.
So if you look year over year it was really the compare to 2013.
We had some smaller projects that booked in the IPD segment in the oil and gas in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And if you look at the bookings quarter by quarter a small amount like that can have an impact.
It's better to look at the full-year trend.
Remember as we came into 2014 we said good progress on the margin improvement.
Now we need to start working on growth and I think the SIHI acquisition is a great example of that.
As to the margins the primary impact is what we set out a number of years ago is to improve the business which has been a priority.
In fact it's probably fair to say that's been a priority for the last three years at Flowserve is to improve the platform and in fact you saw that.
There was a little more aftermarket.
And also keep in mind with the Innomag acquisition we had purchase price accounting in Q4 2013.
That was a much smaller impact in the improvement.
But in fairness on the compares you need to consider that as well.
Thanks and just one quick follow-up.
In relation to Brazil specifically are you guys seeing any customer issues down there? There was another company out today talking about some E&amp;Cs have gone bankrupt.
They've taken an accounts receivable hit.
I was just wondering if you guys have looked at that.
And within the backlog is there anything in it that's maybe at risk because of what's going down in Brazil specifically with what the government is doing down there with anti-corruption? Thanks.
Again we're still optimistic on that region in the world long term.
Keep in mind they've got quite a few reserves and they do need to monetize them and we're there to support them.
But in the short term we do continue to monitor that.
And we haven't had a material impact in our financial statements but that's certainly something that's ongoing down there.
As Tom talked about we have that from time to time.
You see that in Latin America.
There can be impacts down there but we are able to shift.
You do have – while you have challenges there you have strength in Mexico.
But we certainly monitor that very very carefully and our exposures as well and I haven't seen anything impact yet but we're keeping an eye on it.
And I would add to that Mark that obviously Petrobras is going through a reassessment of some of their projects based on some of the issues that they've had with the FTCA which has been publicized in many of the papers.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Good morning Scott.
Mike the best of luck to you.
You're definitely one of the good guys out there.
Thank you.
We agree with you.
I'm sure.
I'm just wanted to ask you Mark about the bookings.
You've indicated that December was the strongest month of the quarter which obviously for a lot of us gives us the wow why's.
Just can you talk about what areas of the company was stronger in December? And then maybe as we turn the calendar if I could attach this question onto that what do the oil and gas bookings look like now halfway through the first quarter? We don't give intra-quarter indications.
We'll wait until things pan out because as you saw in the last quarter we saw a lot of activity at the end in the last month.
This is similar in what we've talked about before.
By that time we get to the bidding phase of a lot of these projects typically there has been a substantial amount of investment.
And so as that activity was working through last summer it continued to follow through.
The thing that we need to keep an eye on Scott going forward is some of the projects.
And you've already seen some in the news that aren't at the bidding phase but are still in the conception phase or in the early phases that they may say hey look we've going to delay this or you saw the big project in the Middle East the LNG one where they said they were going to cancel it.
So it's usually the longer lead times that we tend to take a look at.
So that's in effect what you saw is they don't turn these projects on a dime especially when it comes to bidding our equipment because there has been a lot of investment at that point in time.
Also I think it's fair for everybody to keep in mind.
Here we are on the other side of discussion where there was frustration over the last couple years as when are the big projects coming when are the big projects coming.
The fact is we haven't been real reliant on these big projects for a couple of years.
We saw one I think back in 2012.
In the third quarter we saw a couple of other smaller ones.
So as you look forward we haven't been reliant.
We were looking for them to come.
What does this environment mean? It means it's going to remain competitive in pricing.
I do think as suppliers look out there they're going to try to get visibility as we are and it could put some pressure on pricing on some of these projects as well.
They'll certainly continue to take a long-term view but that's the lay of the land.
So what that indicates in December is as it is in our industry when there's even an abrupt change like that it's not that everybody stops in their tracks because there has been so much.
There are reasons these facilities are getting built.
There are usually secular drivers that are behind them and they follow through on their commitment.
What comes into play are projects that are on the horizon.
Okay fair enough.
So then essentially – and I want to read this carefully.
You're essentially saying that your first half is much more difficult comparables due to the: A) FX environment; and B) the consternation that you're expecting in the first half surrounding the decline in oil prices.
So what I think I hear you saying without you having said it specifically is that you are concerned about oil and gas bookings in the first half of the year.
It's some that are on the project side.
It's something we're definitely going to monitor on a big portion of our business.
You're going to have your seasonality trends around maintenance as for example in the United States they start repurposing some of the facilities for different types of gas during the course of the year some of the brownfield opportunities.
Keep in mind refiners are starting to see an advantage right now on the downstream side because you have low oil.
And if you think about Midwest refiners they have an opportunity because of the limited transportation and you can't export out of United States to really make good profit on refined product at this point in time.
The other thing to consider Scott is there are projects that are still occurring in the Middle East and various parts of the world that are ongoing.
And these are clean fuel requirements.
For example we talked about before; in certain parts of the Middle East they supply into regions of the world that now require reduced sulfur content so they have to get these facilities in place.
The message here is certainly short term people can defer some spend.
We saw that happen in times past.
On the margin some of these complex projects like LNG is a fairly complex project.
They may say look we need to see how the various constituencies of oil are going to play out over a period of time.
Let's reevaluate this.
But the core processes the core refinery the core production where it makes sense and it's financially viable will continue.
So the world's not going to shut off the oil and gas spigot.
So hopefully that's helpful.
But we have seen in the past and this is our commentary; everybody can pause a little bit short term.
A quarter or two in our industry is okay.
These are long-term projects.
Okay I guess what I was just trying to get out was that the full-year guidance did contemplate some type of change in the bidding environment and the booking environment for oil and gas and I think I'm hearing you say that.
So...
The guidance was based on what we knew in January.
The variables are – and if you could tell me where currency is going to go you and I could do very well on currency trades.
But it is what we saw at that point in time.
And if you think about it since January if anything oil has stabilized a little bit.
But it certainly did consider that; it considered what we've experienced before over the short term.
But it also considered a couple other things.
We have a higher backlog coming into this year than we did last year.
And that is intact and we know we're going to deliver that over the period of time.
It also considered that we have a good program in place around driving our aftermarket growth.
It also considered factors that we have been working a lot on our sales organization to get additional penetration in the business.
We have plans.
We're not going to sit still and necessarily just wait and see what the market does.
We're going to focus on what's in our control and that is further penetration in the sales organization.
We've been developing products in R&amp;D and bringing them to market that have driven revenue growth.
We've been growing our aftermarket business.
We're looking at all channels to market in terms of how we can enhance them.
So our guidance does include that because we have a lot of plans in place that we intend to execute this year.
And our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Guys good morning.
It's Alan Fleming in for Andy today.
How are you? Doing fine thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> Mark maybe I can ask you a question more broadly on backlog.
You guys did a nice job growing backlog in 2014 while I think like you said there was very little contribution from the large OE project-based business.
And then I think you touched on December being the strongest month for you in the quarter.
So maybe you can just talk about your confidence broadly in being able to grow overall backlog in 2015.
And is that something that you think you can still achieve on the strength of the aftermarket and the run-rate business? Where we have confidence is on what I just talked about and that is to continue to penetrate on the aftermarket side.
One thing to always keep in mind with aftermarket although we haven't seen a lot of projects is there is a small component that is tied to projects that are called commissioned spares.
But in general and you look at our underlying aftermarket trends and it's really around strategic initiatives that we have the other aspects I mentioned earlier around really the work we're doing on our sales organization that just started a year ago in terms of how do we better penetrate markets; some of the initiatives we have that we've talked about in the chemical industry in the power industry as well.
So those aspects give me confidence.
What I will tell you what we're uncertain of is where some of these project opportunities are going to pan out over a period of time.
Again we haven't been highly reliant on them but they are out there and we do plan our business around them.
That's the area where as you look over the horizon we need to get better visibility into especially the ones that as I talked about are probably more costly.
And the returns on investment may be a little bit longer in those.
But there are still plenty that are right down in the middle of the alley.
What I talked about in the Middle East if you actually heard in Saudi they talked about their commitment to investment in the Middle East.
And I think that's a message for everybody is I don't think anybody views that demand is going to be significantly destroyed over the next five to 10 years.
As a matter of fact I think the views are that demand is going to continue to grow and supply is going to have to respond to it.
So people think about that because you can't turn a project on a dime.
If you decide you want to put it in place you're not going to have it in place nine months from now or a year.
These projects take many many years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe I can follow up with a question about your mix because I looked at your slide deck.
And I see that in recent years the mix has trended something like 10% to 15% of the OE business whereas traditionally I think it's been closer to 20%.
So will that dramatically change in 2015 as you think about it? Will it actually maybe even – will that 10% to 15% go down a little bit as you wait for some of these larger projects to hit? Maybe you can just talk about the mix as you guys are expecting it to play out in 2015.
Forecasting mix wouldn't make any sense at all.
That will depend on the markets our presence the aftermarket.
When we look at a project we think about the long-term opportunities around that project and our ability to deliver.
I think the important thing for you to consider relative to a couple of years ago is we have a stronger operating platform that we think we can be very competitive on projects.
So what we're going to do is be opportunistic.
We don't want to govern any of the mix.
We don't want to constrain any of the mix.
What we want to do is be balanced and grow this business profitably.
It wouldn't make any sense to forecast mix at all.
And our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Hi Nathan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> If we could just talk a little bit about the project work on the Gulf Coast that you're waiting for.
You talked about the six ethylene projects that are currently under construction.
They must be getting closer and closer to being bid out to I guess the pump guys first.
Can you talk about the expectation that you have on when those are going to be let out? So the question was what's the expectation on the Gulf Coast projects.
I would say a couple things.
There have been about 12 ethane projects.
About six are currently under construction and we've been participating in those.
And there are six more that are under various stages from feasibility to permitting so those are yet to come from an OE standpoint.
And I would say the second thing is we've been particularly strong in the Gulf Coast and southern U.S.
in our aftermarket business both on the oil and gas and chemicals so that's come through very nicely for us.
So I would say those are the two primary drivers in that region.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you then talk about just for everyone's education a little bit the cycle that progresses after those ethylene projects with the chemical plants that need to be built after that and how long that cycle lasts for you guys? Ethane is one thing in the stream.
It starts obviously with oil and natural gas and then it's broken down into different constituents of which ethane is one of those.
And then it goes on to further processing.
So I would say we have further opportunities for further processing on the chemical side of the business.
You've also seen us mention the fact that on the ethane that for the most part the Europeans use naphtha which is their process that they have going into their chemical plants.
We even see a potential for exporting that and them turning some of their plants over to U.S.-based ethane.
So there is a continuing process for downstream further refinements of these chemicals.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And just one question on margins.
You did comment that 35% gross margin was better than even your expectations for the year.
Is that a level that you think is sustainable long term taking out the noise I guess in the near-term from oil prices something that you think can expand or something that you think is not sustainable? So if you look at the base operations of the business what is primarily reflected in that gross line is the operational improvement that you've certainly seen in the business.
And Nathan you've got to take mix aside because project work tends to have lower gross margins but ultimately benefit so mix neutral.
And you're right around the noise in the pricing environment and everything.
But underlying that is an improvement in the operations.
And the reason we think it's sustainable is because we still have some opportunity to improve it.
I would tell you we're about 60% through our five-year journey about three years into bringing this company to the level of performance that it needs to be and that we can see.
I also – I think we've talked about from time to time.
We have some under-absorption in our factories that we're going to start to get at as well.
You do that after you get the operations up and running and we're going to look at that going forward as well.
So those are just two examples of things that we think we're going to focus on to drive overall margin improvement.
And if you look at margins overall in the business we got a little benefit from fixed cost leverage last year in the SG&amp;A line.
So as we drive our growth initiatives over the next couple of years that should benefit for us.
One thing I would add to Mark on the absorption side we've had a whole program on the lead center and the secondary manufacturing center which is all about shifting our manufacturing base around the world to low-cost centers.
So we now have in place as you've seen previously a strong Indian component in our Coimbatore facility.
We have Santa Clara in Mexico as a core.
We have India and we're beefing up – excuse me we have China.
We're beefing up China further with further capital spend as Mike mentioned on the valve side.
So we've got a good low-cost sourcing platform.
And now we're moving with LPO/SPO strategy those products around the world which should bode well for the future.
So that's three examples of why we have confidence.
And our next question comes from Andrew Obin from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yes guys congratulations on a great quarter and sad to see Mike go.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for all the help over the years.
Mike is a good executive and a good friend.
Just a question on market share and pricing dynamics because what we've been hearing this quarter from some of your competitors is their numbers have not been as good as yours.
People are talking about pricing pressure some talking about repricing of the MRO.
Can you just describe what it is you are seeing in terms of your tier versus maybe people who are not as strong? What are you hearing about customers about pricing the business model? And what are you seeing in terms of market share? I think it's tough to calculate share because share gain and loss is determined on every project that you bid relative to a competitor and we win some and we lose some.
But as my comments earlier what I will tell you is the industry always looks at its capacity over the long term and with the uncertainty that I've talked about over the horizon.
So we see the activity levels over the short term then they'll look at their capacity their load over a period of time and they can do a number of things.
They'll either book their capacity to make sure that it is absorbed or they may look at their capacity and say can we rationalize some of it or they'll do both.
So it's really going to depend on each company out there over that period of time.
Obviously we're going to look at both so I think from that standpoint.
But also another thing to keep in mind around these projects is there are technical capabilities delivery times quality.
All these things that we talk about still factor in.
I will tell you for the most part customers value that a great deal.
The one exception I've always pointed out is in the Middle East.
A lot of it really does come down to price.
But increasingly they're getting focused on your ability to respond respond with quality and be able to support it over a period of time.
So what I don't want to suggest as you look at project opportunities is that all things are equal.
I've always maintained we have good competitors out there with certainly good capabilities.
But increasingly these are things that customers are looking at when they let out opportunities.
Because a customer could save X% on the price of the equipment but if it's not on time if it's not quality and you can't support it it becomes far more expensive than your savings.
So let me ask you another question.
I think it's no secret we're quite a bit more bearish on the end market than you guys are.
But the question I have given your exposure to energy and that is your core business if things weaken beyond what you guys expect you do have obviously given your performance in the previous downturn I think your cash flows will remain quite robust.
Would you consider investing more in energy to take advantage to bulk up your business during a downturn? I'm talking about M&amp;A.
Absolutely if it makes sense for our shareholders absolutely we would because nobody on this phone call or any other phone call believes energy is going away.
And again it's interesting how these conversations change so quickly.
We were apologizing for not having enough exposure to upstream and now all of a sudden nobody is interested in it.
We are very interested in it because we think long term that's going to return a tremendous amount of value.
So your point is right.
These are times and let's go back to our statement.
In our tone more than anything what you hear in the confidence is the strength of our platform what we've been able to accomplish the performance level and then we'll focus on what's within our control.
And to your point that is something that is certainly within our control.
And it gives us the opportunity with a strong platform a strong balance sheet we're delivering we're returning value to our shareholders.
So we don't have to trade things off.
We can play offense in this type of environment and one of those components of offense is going to be the inorganic opportunities.
And our next question comes from Steven Fisher from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Mike best wishes certainly.
And can you maybe clarify the FX impact? I know you said the current rates would have a bigger than $0.20 headwind.
Can you maybe just give us some order of magnitude of that impact if the current rates hold? And are you planning on any kind of offset to those incremental headwinds if they do materialize? I'll jump in real quick.
Roughly you can do the math.
Last year's average currency versus the guidance range it would be another $0.08 to $0.10 of impact absent any change.
But it's important to take a step back because there has been a lot of focus with multinationals around currency impact.
And it is certainly out there but there are other sides to that equation.
If you think about it for example the acquisition we just made in SIHI our German manufacturing now there has become much more competitive.
These things will sort themselves out over time.
So currency tends to have a short-term impact and folks that are focused on the short term will certainly be aware of that.
But long term what it does do is it balances out our manufacturing and certainly makes it more competitive.
I just want to remind everybody of that because I don't want everybody to get short-term focus.
There's a lot of noise in that around the world.
But it does give multinationals the opportunity to leverage some of their now lower cost capacity with very competitive products out in the global arena.
Great that's helpful.
And then Tom I know you said it's early days on the SIHI integration.
But I was wondering if you're seeing any opportunities to reduce that $0.25 dilution impact this year No this is Mark.
We're still working through all that.
A lot of that is purchase price accounting.
But also there are some cost synergies we're going to bring to it as well.
If you think about it I think I mentioned on the call and it was early days but they have some good capacity that we're actually going to be able to leverage.
So when you looked at our acquisition multiple and our forward multiple a lot of that was the opportunity to take some cost synergies.
And there's a short-term cost to that but a strong long-term benefit.
Okay great thanks very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Chase Jacobson from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
I guess most of my questions have been asked here but one clarification.
On the revenue guidance for down 1% to up 3% does that include the currency headwind? It includes the year-end rate but as Mike mentioned not any adjustments up or down since then during the course of the year.
We have to pick a point in time because otherwise every day the guidance range could change with the volatility of the dollar index.
So we picked a point in time towards the end of the year.
But that range does include that.
It does not include the impact of the CE revenue.
Okay.
And then Tom I think you mentioned that there's potential for further actions on the cost side.
And you talked about a few things like low-cost sourcing and project management.
I was wondering if you could give any more color there and how quickly Flowserve could react if we were to enter a period where the CapEx environment from your major oil and gas and energy customers was going to remain lower for longer than just 2015.
Obviously we've been working on cost reduction plans for the last several years which is one of the reasons why you see some of the margins the way they are.
But relative to for instance low-cost souring as I mentioned earlier we do spend a lot of time looking at our manufacturing network of almost 70 plants in determining what is the most efficient way of manufacturing that product as we get a project in.
And there's an expertise there and confidence that we continue to hone in and result in additional reductions.
Mark mentioned absorption.
We're looking at obviously that on a regular basis.
Our supply chain we spent a lot of time looking at China and India and developing that in Eastern Bloc countries the supply chain so we have a very aggressive supply chain program going on.
Project management a couple years ago we put that in full force effect to take a product/manufacturing business and turn it into a very responsive customer-focused project management driven organization.
And we've made progress but we have a lot to go on that in terms of schedule development and core execution.
And so I feel very comfortable with where we are at there but we have things to go there.
We started to shift from Six Sigma quality initiatives more to Lean initiatives in the business and we're in the early stages of shifting to Lean.
So as Mark indicated there are a lot more levers to pull in the business.
I mentioned just a few of those.
But I can certainly go through different lists here.
Notwithstanding all the work that we've done on the sales side to drive alliances differently and re – I would say constitute our sales force to go after our chemical and industrial business differently.
Let me just give you an overall summary I think around short term.
Our focus is we're going to continue to invest to grow this business because this is not the type of market that anybody wants to abandon by any stretch of the imagination.
Now to your point are there some high-return cost actions that we can take that we plan to do? Absolutely I think we've started talking about that last summer that over time we have the opportunity to reduce our under-absorption to certainly reposition capacity and take advantage of that.
If the market dictates you accelerate those things.
If the market is strong maybe you smooth them out over a period of time because remember; at the end of the day we still have to take care of our customers.
Our next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered so I just have one.
And by the way Mike you will be missed as well.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate all your help throughout the years.
Your assumption on margins can you provide us some basic assumptions in terms of material inflation or deflation? Are you expecting any tailwinds? Are they embedded in your margin assumptions? Do you mean going forward or...
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Obviously we haven't given margin guidance beyond where we were.
And keep in mind we set out margin guidance three years ago and we're basically a year ahead of schedule.
And what that means that's what gives us confidence to start going on to our other initiatives driving growth and some of the other things that I've talked about here.
But as you look forward that's an aspect of it around material cost keeping in mind and we've talked about this before.
We don't use a lot of base raw material and therefore take direct commodity risk.
Typically especially on the large lead-time projects we're sourcing components and those components are oftentimes priced contemporaneous with bidding the project.
So we know the margins at that point in time.
It's not to say were immune from commodity costs certainly on some of our shorter cycle where we use bar stock on our seal faces but you can adjust price fairly quickly.
So what you've seen in our history is there isn't a tremendous amount of commodity exposure to our benefit or to our detriment.
Typically that's in our supply base.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect thank you.
Our next question comes from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
All the best Mike I appreciate your time.
Thanks Bill.
My question is based upon the $2 billion-plus franchise in the aftermarket.
Mark what's possibly the next step there? You're doing a fantastic job worldwide with your QRCs servicing your end markets.
Is it possible maybe you go into maybe an additional leverage there of that base to other maintenance functions possibly pipeline integrity for the downstream? Is that like the next step here? I think we want to continue the steps.
So if you look at the compound growth rate over the last couple of years actually through the cycle we want to continue those steps as well.
I think some of the investments we're looking at if you think about it is to continue to index and inventory our installed base.
There is a lot of installed base out there that we need to understand where it is and take care of it.
That's what our customers want.
And actually if you think about it that's one of our big investments this year.
I talked about we're going to continue to play offense and grow.
That's one of the things we're looking at because if we know where it is then we can call on it and take care of it.
That's core.
The other things to look at in our business as well as is asset monitoring some reliability.
We've been starting to scratch the surface on that continuing to drive more of that in our business.
And some of the other – as our products get more complex also keep in mind around that business with the SIHI acquisition we're going to look for ways to better support those products with our aftermarket business.
So we've certainly been very pleased with the growth over the last couple of years but we do have some initiatives where we're really trying to enhance the growth in that business I think one of the best of which is going to be finding out where we can serve our customer with our own product that if you think about Flowserve our product has been around for 150 years.
I'm not saying they all have a 150-year life but there are quite a few of them that have been out there many many years that we need to go and take care of.
Thank you gentlemen.
That's all I have.
Sure.
And our next question comes from Joe Giordano from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Building on the last one there how would you judge your aftermarket capture rate versus a year ago? And are you gaining only on your installed base or are you picking up share on other competitors' installed base and what's the competitive dynamic there? I think we talked about this before.
Our primary opportunity is really around the customer who is doing the work themselves is bringing that in-house having us do it.
And with the advent of a lot of their maintenance folks starting to retire that is going to present an opportunity; also being as responsive as what we call the local machine shops the local repair shops.
But it's not only just about service and repair.
It's also about going in there and talking about performance.
How do we increase and improve performance in the product? I think the real opportunity as we look forward is what I commented on earlier and that is getting a better handle of our installed base around the world.
And we're going to have to invest in resources this year to do that because it takes people it takes systems to do that.
But we think there's going to be a high payoff on those investments in years to come.
So I'd say the existing installed base is still an opportunity.
The strategies have been paying off around how we improve reliability in the systems.
And our timeliness and responsiveness are going to be what present and have presented the opportunity around our customer maintenance their capabilities in-house and also responding to some of the local repair shops.
I agree.
That's great color thank you.
And then lastly from me if we look at the top end of your organic guidance on the revenue side 3% what needs to happen to hit something like that? And what level of project activity maybe on a year-versus-year basis are you contemplating in that scenario? Part of what we look in that is again we came in with and I believe this was already currency adjusted to year-end rates $150 million more backlog.
So if you're just planning that on and nothing else were to occur that would drive near to the top end of our growth.
So with that there is some forecast around project opportunities similar to last year.
A lot of our run-rate business is brownfield but some of it does attach to new CapEx spend.
So I'm not suggesting it's just as easy as just executing on our backlog but the fact is that does give us a revenue tailwind.
So what we're going to have to do underneath that is continue to drive our aftermarket business penetrate additional areas on our run-rate business and the projects that are out there that are going to continue to forward execute on them get them and execute on them.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
We have reached our allotted time for Q&amp;A.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve's 2015 First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Mr.
Roueche you may begin.
Thank you Operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss Flowserve Corporation's first quarter 2015 financial results.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer Tom Pajonas Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Malcolm Platt our Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
While I expect most of you have reviewed our earnings materials by now I will note that we filed our form 10-Q issued a press release and prepared an earnings presentation and all of these materials are available on our website at Flowserve.com in the investor relations section.
Before I turn the call over to Mark let me cover some housekeeping items.
As a reminder this event is being webcast and an audio replay will be available later today.
Please also be aware that this call and our associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements which are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of April 30 2015.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control and except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's press release slide presentation and our form 10-Q as well as other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information.
Additionally our earnings materials do and this call will include non-GAAP measures.
Among the non-GAAP figures cited include our adjusted earnings per share metric which excludes the impact of our recent SIHI acquisition below the line currency effects the Venezuelan currency remeasurement impact as well as certain other specific items.
We have reconciled our adjusted EPS as well as other adjusted metrics to our reported results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in both our press release and in our earnings presentation.
We encourage you to review those materials.
I will also note that our revised guidance metrics which reflect quarter end FX rates and current business conditions are also on an adjusted basis and include numerous assumptions based on information available to management as of April 30 2015.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter 2015 results were challenged by a broad based capital spending decline originating in the oil and gas markets as well as currency headwinds caused by a stronger dollar.
Going into the quarter we anticipated some customer hesitancy and reduced activity due to oil price volatility but did not foresee the full extent of the reaction both in our downstream and midstream markets as well as in other served industries.
We also saw restrained spending in our customers' repair and maintenance budgets occur in the quarter.
This market slowdown was further compounded by economic and geopolitical conditions in Latin America and the Middle East and by strikes at several U.S.
refineries.
Specifically in March we did not experience the typical uptick in activity that we usually see towards quarter end.
Reflecting these challenges our first quarter bookings excluding SIHI were down roughly 13% on a constant currency basis.
As I mentioned the strengthening U.S.
dollar against most world currencies also provided a significant headwind in the quarter as roughly two-thirds of our revenue is generated outside the United States.
Looking out to the rest of the year we expect maintenance and repair work to begin to improve from first quarter levels considering this activity cannot be delayed indefinitely.
New project opportunities are expected to be very price competitive with fewer projects being released for bid and customers closely monitoring all project costs.
We believe our differentiated products and services will prove beneficial in this new bidding environment and we plan to remain thoughtful and disciplined.
I should also note that while competition for new awards remains high we have not had any material discussions about repricing our existing $2.7 billion backlog.
Considering the current market environment and quarter end FX rates we have updated our 2015 guidance as indicated in our press release and earnings presentation.
Malcolm will provide additional details on this shortly.
While current market conditions are challenging I take confidence from the fact that we have successfully navigated similar cycles in the recent past.
More importantly Flowserve's operating platform is performing better than ever.
In fact even in the face of tough market conditions our first quarter's adjusted gross margin was flat with last year and better than the sequential quarter.
We also carefully managed our SG&amp;A spend which declined over $20 million from last year excluding the impact of the first quarter's adjustments and last year's divestiture.
This type of discipline that we have instilled in the organization over the last few years provides us the flexibility to successfully operate in current market conditions.
We're approaching every new award opportunity using a balanced approach considering price low cost sourcing options supply chain opportunities lead time reductions and additional value add features such as our LifeCycle Advantage strategy.
Additionally Flowserve's effort to expand its geographic and end market exposures over the last few years allows us to drive business towards areas with the greatest market and profit opportunity.
Our solid operational foundation also enables us to take advantage of market conditions that position Flowserve to be an even stronger flow control company maintain solid margins and enhance our competitive position going forward.
To better align costs and improve long term efficiency we're targeting $100 million in investment to reduce high cost capacities and workforce levels that generates cost reductions of over $70 million in annual run-rate savings.
This effort will include a reduction of approximately 5% of our global workforce.
We believe our cost savings initiatives will not impact Flowserve's ability to provide best-in-class customer service or limit our ability to capture new business opportunities.
And the cost savings will better position us to achieve our long term goal of 18% SG&amp;A expense as a percent of revenue.
Accelerating already existing manufacturing optimization combined with plans to further drive supply chain savings will further improve our long term competitive position.
Manufacturing optimization is one of our core strategies and not a market reaction as these plans have been in development for quite some time.
As we have previously highlighted we have made significant investments over the last several years developing a low cost manufacturing footprint primarily in Asia and Latin America.
These facilities are now preparing to take over for some of our higher cost facilities and we're using this time to accelerate our plans.
In addition to our cost saving initiatives we're continuing to execute our growth strategies including targeting select end markets where we see opportunity such as Asia and power chemical and aftermarket just to name a few examples.
Likewise we're enhancing our go to market approach with our customers through aligned selling expanded distribution sales and product bundling to better leverage our comprehensive flow control portfolio.
Lastly I will mention our R&amp;D efforts and new product development program.
We invest over $40 million annually in these efforts and they are generating solid returns.
As our products and our customers' needs get more complex Flowserve continues to distinguish itself from others by remaining an innovator and solution provider for the industry.
Flowserve is unique in having the most comprehensive suite of flow control products and services across our industry including our diversified business model and global network of quick response centers.
Despite this quarter's volatility we believe our portfolio remains advantaged over time as we pursue our long term growth strategies and deliver on our customers' needs across the large and attractive end markets we serve.
Similarly we continue to apply equal rigor to our capital allocation policies and priorities.
Returning capital to our shareholders continues to be a high priority with over $100 million returned in the first quarter through dividends and share repurchases.
Since we announced our distribution policy in late 2011 we have returned almost $2 billion to our shareholders including share repurchases of almost 35 million shares at an average price below $48.
At current prices we continue to view Flowserve stock as an attractive investment and we'll continue to opportunistically repurchase shares.
Consistent with our strategy we will also continue to evaluate potential inorganic opportunities leveraging our successful track record while maintaining our disciplined approach.
I am truly excited about our new prospects with SIHI and its products.
As an update the business is performing in line with expectations Integration is progressing well and we have identified additional revenue and cost opportunities beyond our initial expectations.
We will evaluate any future inorganic opportunities against our disciplined standards and shareholder focus adhering to established hurdles and evaluating potential acquisitions against further organic investment opportunities and additional returns of capital to our shareholders.
Finally I want to mention how pleased I am with some of the recent additions to our team who will help us drive some of the initiatives we have discussed today.
We're attracting outstanding industry talent to the Flowserve brand.
We recently brought on experienced seasoned leaders for marketing distribution and manufacturing optimization.
Additionally I want to highlight the recent announcement of our new Chief Financial Officer.
Karyn Ovelmen is a talented professional bringing solid financial leadership and strong operational orientation and experience in many of our customers' industries such as refining chemical and plastics.
I know you will look forward to hearing from her in the near future as we welcome her to the Flowserve team starting June 1.
Together these new leaders will add tremendous value in helping drive our strategic and operational improvements forward to produce growth.
To wrap up my prepared remarks we recognize the current state of the markets but we have successfully weathered through market cycles before and we have specific action plans well underway to position Flowserve for success in a challenging environment.
We will be using this cycle as an opportunity to make Flowserve even stronger for the future.
I have confidence in the strength of our business model our strategy and most importantly our people who are focused on delivering meaningful value for our shareholders and customers.
Let me now turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark mentioned we're continuing to drive our long term strategic initiatives while at the same time being responsive to our current market conditions.
As such we're accelerating some of our longer term initiatives as we rebalance priorities.
In this volatile market period our strong operating platform our diversified product and asset base that serves industrial infrastructure and our after-market capabilities developed through our localization efforts will help us emerge as a stronger company to better serve our client base.
The Flowserve business model has led to strong results and we continue to believe we have the right strategy in place for the long term.
To put the 2015 quarter performance in perspective we began the year coming off a very strong Q4 2014 performance that saw increases in virtually all our industrial end markets and significant regional growth in North America the Middle East and Latin America.
In addition our aftermarket bookings at over $550 million were at record levels.
This performance occurred despite a quarter where the oil price was in rapid decline.
As we progress through Q1 in addition to a volatile oil market and currency challenges there were a multitude of other factors that emerged late in the quarter.
We increasingly saw larger project work not materializing increased macro uncertainty in China emerging Latin America continuing to experience issues and a more uncertain Middle East environment.
Q1 bookings on a constant currency basis finished down across all of our end industries and was down in all regions with the exception of Middle East and Africa which was up 2.7%.
Uncertainty in upstream market increased and resulted in a general pause that also carried over in our mid and downstream oil and gas markets as well as other served industries as customers took time to assess their plants.
The pricing environment was characterized by fewer project opportunities more customer initiated cost reduction pressures and cost pressures being driven deeper into the value chain.
For instance we saw over $150 million of project work originally expected for release to our industry shift from the first quarter to later in the year.
We also saw about $50 million of our ready to ship projects deferred by our customers to a later date as they were slow to accept product.
We do see signs of some activity ahead as oil has stabilized albeit at a lower level but recognize the market will be competitive and not all industries will move in sync.
Customers will remain deliberate and driving value for them will be increasingly important.
We have the capability to drive their short-term and long term value.
The strong margin progression over the last four years demonstrates the success of our commitment to operational excellence.
Our operating performance remains at a high level which given adjusted gross margin of 35.3% for the quarter is flat with the prior year Q1 and up sequentially to Q4 2014 positions the operating divisions to address current business conditions.
While we continued investments in quality new product development project management and low cost sourcing we will continue to drive top line and operating performance.
Recent commitments include adding expertise in manufacturing optimization growth oriented marketing route to market distribution and alliance selling to name just a few.
Each of these furthers our strategic initiatives to deliver on our long term growth plans at attractive profitability levels.
In response to market conditions and to improve margins and competitiveness we're driving cost reductions and manufacturing optimization.
We have launched and are accelerating existing initiatives that identify targeted opportunities to improve absorption and reduce expense through the consolidation of our manufacturing footprint with increased capabilities in the emerging regions.
Our assets in China India Brazil and Mexico will begin to serve as core manufacturing centers to address many of our customers' long and short-term drivers.
We still anticipate the aftermarket business to be more resilient as compared to the original equipment products.
In addition to the significant currency headwinds and customers tightly managing their maintenance budgets the refinery strike that began in February affected the U.S.
market and delayed scheduled plant maintenance as operators perform minimal maintenance.
In addition we saw our large retrofit business also affected during this period as customers assessed their overall capital plans.
Lower OE bookings also had negatively affected aftermarket this quarter as we saw decreased activity in spares tied to new units.
Even as we anticipate some of the deferred work to come back and improve from this quarter's level of aftermarket activity we continue to execute on plans to increase our aftermarket capture through the further identification of installed base and increased localization efforts.
At the same time we will be improving the capabilities of some existing facilities and in other cases we'll look for opportunities to combine QRCs in overlapping regions.
Growing our aftermarket remains a top priority and opportunity.
As Mark mentioned we're also targeting growth through greater expansion into the power markets of Asia better coverage in the chemical space and improved focus our distribution channels.
The power market in China will be a longstanding opportunity.
Our plan is to localize various pump product lines to maximize our China power market potential in addition to the buildout of our new valve facility.
The chemical market requires products with quick lead times and go to market strategies that are enhanced by establishing product portfolios and a distribution network to address customer needs.
We will continue to update you on these initiatives as we progress.
Looking at our end markets during the first quarter on a constant currency basis and excluding SIHI for a clean comparison the oil and gas bookings declined over 16%.
We saw large project activity slow significantly by customers even in the mid and downstream areas reevaluated their investment plans in this new low price oil environment.
Additionally refiners taking advantage of improved spreads combined with the previously discussed U.S.
workers' strike created incremental challenges in this key downstream market.
Looking at the other oil and gas regions Latin America headwinds continued as Petrobras worked through their issues and the financial crisis of Venezuela constrained Petrovesa.
In the near term Mexico remains an opportunity as foreign investment comes into play in Mexico's oil and gas business.
In Middle East and Africa oil and gas bookings were up 2.7% continuing the growth we experienced in 2014 albeit at more modest levels.
National oil companies in this region appeared to delay less of their investment decisions versus the multinationals which delayed significantly more.
We have also seen increases in our proposal activity in the latter part of the quarter particularly in the Middle East which supports some of the above statements on an ongoing basis.
As we discussed last quarter with most of our oil and gas exposure in the mid and downstream markets and with our customers' maintenance and repair activities we believe as the year progresses that various aspects of the market should begin to approach a less volatile and more normal level.
As part of additional proposal activity we have experienced lately appears to validate that some projects in the industry are beginning to move forward though timing at competitive environment remains less certain.
In the chemical market first quarter bookings decreased roughly 14% versus a strong compare in 2014.
We continue to expect ethylene expansion in North America with the derivative plants related to the new capacity expected to come online over the next few years.
Although the current strong dollar is partially offsetting the advantages of the low cost U.S.
natural gas and may be a cause for a delay in some derivative plants.
Middle East chemical expansion efforts looks to be a potential in the future as well.
In January 2015 we increased our chemical presence substantially with the acquisition of SIHI.
The integration process of the business is progressing well.
We're accelerating realignment efforts and have identified opportunities beyond our initial plans.
For instance we have seen substantial opportunities in providing systems for flare gas required by new environmental regulations.
Our power market bookings were down 14% versus prior years' quarter.
While the rollover of activity into Q1 was slow coal retirements and low-cost natural gas are driving the momentum for combined cycle plants in North America.
Asia continues to invest in fossil based plants where our increased local capabilities improve our competitiveness.
In March China began improving new nuclear plans the first since 2011.
We have been providing nuclear products on reactors currently under construction for some time and view the recent shift in policy as an important opportunity.
Nuclear power remains in transition for China Russia and South Korea see continued development and there are even discussions of new capacity in some regions of Europe.
India's new proposed agreement with the U.S.
that will limit nuclear suppliers' liability could potentially be a meaningful catalyst for work in that country.
Following the new safety standards Japan is getting closer to restarting a portion of its nuclear capacity which has been idle since 2011.
General industries was down 14.7% with distribution and developed business also down versus the prior quarter.
This is an area where we have added additional capability in terms of resources and strategic direction.
In summary Flowserve has a strong global footprint localized aftermarket capability a diverse product portfolio and a strong operating platform.
The investments in manufacturing optimization quality and new product development will drive future opportunities.
We believe that our core business is performing and provides us with a solid base.
Also that we have experienced navigating similar market conditions and that we have solid long term strategic plans in place in terms of manufacturing optimization and growth plans.
We will continue to execute these long term strategies while accelerating others and at the same time increase our focus in accelerating our short-term initiatives to respond to the current market conditions including cost reductions.
We will balance these initiatives with a view towards driving profitable growth for the long term value of our shareholders.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Malcolm.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Mark and Tom discussed our operational overview strategic plans and business outlook in detail so let me finish with a quick discussion of our financial results.
Flowserve began 2015 with sales over $1 billion in the first quarter which included approximately $67 million from our recent SIHI acquisition.
Turning to margins excluding the negative impact of SIHI resulting from purchase price accounting and realignment as well as a modest amount in the Venezuelan remeasurement adjusted gross margins were flat with year ago levels at 35.3% to affirming our operational performance remains on track.
Again excluding SIHI as well as last year's benefit from our Noval gain on sale SG&amp;A dollars decreased year-over-year by approximately $21 million continuing to reflect Flowserve's commitment to cost containment.
Turning to our adjusted operating margins the year-over-year reduction is largely due to reduced sales excluding SIHI's impact and the other adjustments as well as the benefit we received last year from the gain on sale of Noval operating margins declined 40 basis points.
Our GAAP first quarter tax rate of nearly 50% is elevated due to the non-deductibility of the Venezuelan remeasurement and certain exit taxes associated with the SIHI integration.
Adjusted for SIHI Venezuela and other discrete items our adjusted tax rate was in line with our guidance at 30.1%.
Turning to cash flows as is typically the case the first quarter was a seasonal user of cash.
Increasing our cash generation remains a priority with our long term goal to consistently generate free cash flow near our net income level.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were elevated to almost $84 million as some of our planned 2014 spending on the new Chinese valve facility slipped into 2015 and we also had an opportunity to purchase a long term license which will provide good opportunities to increase our aftermarket business both in addition to our regular organic investments.
These investments are examples of our continued commitment and the investment in attractive organic opportunities for long term growth.
Returning capital to shareholders is a key priority for Flowserve and in the first quarter we returned over $100 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
At quarter end approximately $384 million remained available under our current share repurchase plan authorized for this purpose.
We continue to have the financial flexibility necessary to pursue our initiatives.
During the first quarter we raised EUR500 million of seven year senior notes in the European markets that's an attractive 1.25% coupon.
Use of proceeds were to fund the SIHI acquisition as well as our general corporate purposes.
This additional funding increased our gross leverage ratio to 2 times EBITDA or 1.6 times on a net of cash basis.
Further it creates a natural hedge with our SIHI purchase and other Euro entities.
Primary working capital as a percentage of our trailing 12 month sales improved modestly to 26.6% versus 27.7% a year ago.
Our effort to improve our working capital continues to be an area of major emphasis.
As Mark mentioned we have revised our 2015 guidance ranges primarily due to additional expected FX headwinds as well as the current market environment.
From an FX standpoint we now expect a 10% revenue headwind and a $0.40 EPS impact for the year as compared to full-year 2014 results.
We now see 2015 revenues down 8% to 12% year-over-year not including the revenues from our SIHI acquisition.
On a constant currency basis this new guidance equates to revenues in the range of down 2% to up 2% and is supported by the 11% constant currency backlog billed during 2014.
Our adjusted EPS also excludes SIHI and also below the line currency impacts as well as other specific one-time events such as the quarter's Venezuelan remeasurement future realignment and the like.
Our revised adjusted EPS range is now $3.25 to $3.65 reflecting the $0.40 year-over-year FX headwind as well as current market conditions.
Similar to recent years 2015 should reflect our traditional seasonality with earnings more weighted to the second half of the year.
While performing in line with our expectations SIHI follows a similar trend.
We continue to expect the first half of the year will experience the largest year-over-year comparable FX challenge due to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
We continue to expect that SIHI will have an approximate $0.25 dilutive impact on GAAP EPS in 2015.
With over half the total expected one-time costs occurring in the seasonally lightest quarter we took a disproportionate amount of SIHI's delusion in Q1.
Finally with the first quarter's high level of capital expenditures we now expect to invest $170 million to $180 million during 2015.
At this level we will continue to profitably grow our business organically and to further increase our capabilities around the world.
Let me now return the call to Jay.
Thanks Malcolm.
Operator we have now concluded our prepared remarks and we would like to open the call up to questions from our audience.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Mike Halloran from Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
So first on the restructuring announcements.
Could you just give us some help on how the benefits those $70 million worth of benefits flow through? I am assuming a portion of it is this year but the majority of it is next year with the full run-rate at some time next year or into 2016? That's about right.
As we talked about a lot of these in our mature markets and it takes time to implement them but we do expect to see some this year depending on implementation and get to run-rate during the course of next year.
Mike let me jump in real quick.
We lost power in our main room and had to move so we had a bunch of people shuffling around so sorry for the disturbance.
No problem at all.
Then on the downstream decision making process.
Obviously you saw some of the upstream oil related pressures shift into the downstream side.
What do you think reinvigorates that decision making process for some of your client base as it stands today? The discussion is not going to be as connected to oil price machinations as it is on the upstream side.
What are the conversations like today and how is that thought process materializing from here? Well it's really I think the long term plans are still in place for mid and downstream.
On the upstream you can variablize it easier.
If you look at what can occur in our market is think about where we were in February and March and half the pundits were saying oil was going to be at 30.
The other half said it was going to go back to 80.
At that point in time it's difficult to implement an investment decision.
I think what reinvigorates it is some stability and visibility in oil prices.
Keep in mind in certain regions of the world even at current levels it makes sense to put additional capacity on.
So if you think about that from a project standpoint and then you step back again and look at what happens on some of our run-rate and aftermarket business again the environment we're in in the first quarter is people are uncertain about their capital budgets.
If you look at the integrated oil companies they're focused on cash flow.
What that will cause folks to do is wait and see and develop their budget and certainly defer maintenance.
We saw that in the beginning of 2009 but you can't defer it forever.
So we do expect that to stabilize over a period of time.
Again in our industry a couple of months doesn't change things but if you look at some of the project development opportunities in the Middle East they need to bring those things online.
So we think the discussion starts to normalize and stabilize when people have visibility into oil prices there is some stability.
But when you see the volatile reactions and people don't know where oil is going over the short term it pays - you see it in all industries they wait.
As a matter of fact we did that in our own business.
We were trying to see how the first quarter panned out.
We held on some decisions.
These are long term decisions.
One follow-up there.
You referenced the aftermarket side and the deferred maintenance.
How long can customers realistically defer that maintenance and can you put that in the context of what you did see in that 2009 time frame and then also what customers are telling you today? On the maintenance side it really comes down to a safety issue.
For those aspects of the basic maintenance and operating condition you can defer it for months but you can't defer it for quarters and years especially around safety issues.
The other aspect of that Tom talked about if you talk about the upgrades or the focus on efficiency in any market people are going to look for ways to get more yield out of downstream.
Keep in mind a lot of our - where aftermarket falls short in the mid and downstream business is where they shut a facility.
We did see that happen in 2009.
It's not like an oil well where they cap the oil well or shut the oil well for a period of time or the production platform.
They continue to operate these downstream facilities in good times and bad.
In good times and bad they're looking for ways of course to keep them maintained and operating for safety purposes but also they're looking for ways to drive additional efficiency.
As we look out we can see and have seen before where budgets - again think about the environment that the oil and gas industry was in and it did spill over.
They're saying we don't know where oil is going.
Let's just wait and see.
You also had the refinery strikes.
People were uncertain as to how budgets were going to get allocated particularly in integrated oil companies.
So you can see that they'll defer it for that period of time.
Also we have seen when refinery spreads increase significantly they try to run them a little longer to capture some of the benefits.
So even in that type of environment they will defer but you can't defer in perpetuity.
Our next question comes from Charley Brady from BMO.
Please go ahead.
On your comment on the increased focus capture rate on the installed base that's something you guys have talked about in the past.
I am wondering can you remind us where you are today on what you think your capture it on your own install base is and what you are doing really to go after that and where you think you can get to over time? We have been consistently below 40% 45% on the capture rate except for in our seal business it's higher.
If you think about it and look at our legacy and heritage brands and how often these products can be at the market years and years and years of installed base.
Part of what we need to do is a sales person can only call on a facility with our installed base if he knows it's there.
One of the efforts that we've been doing is to inventory and category that installed base.
That's part of the investment we have already made.
That is people that is systems and it takes time to inventory that and then you roll it into the sales organization end-user sales plans.
So that's one of the things that we're doing.
Also some of the systems we developed and the conversations around efficiency and upgrades.
But one of the big initiatives right now is just to go out and catalog our installed base.
We have years and years of installed base around the world that we aren't servicing right now.
I will go back on the prior question on the $100 million in investment did you say that you expect the full run-rate in 2016 or are you getting most of the run-rate and full run-rate in 2017? Well we'll see a lot of it a substantial amount in 2016.
Again keep in mind where we're implementing these takes time.
There are things you have to work through to implement them.
I think as you take a step back and look at the actions that we're taking these are things that really position this company long term.
And if you think about it and Tom referenced this we're getting after our under absorption we're getting after manufacturing cost we're driving additional volume in some of our new state of the art facilities.
This is really repositioning our business and we think this is what our customers are going to demand over time.
As we take a step back and look at this market and I think I have talked about this before when factories are loaded and you are producing it's very difficult to move product capabilities or actually shut a facility down during that period of time.
What we do is we look at our long range planning and take the opportunity now to start to move some of our product capabilities to some of our higher volume low-cost parts of the world.
That's a core part of what we're doing right now is accelerating some of the plans that we've laid in place to really reposition this company to be even more competitive in the markets and take advantage of when things start to cycle up.
They always do.
We have been through many cycles and one thing we know for sure is that this industry has a good secular underpinning and the markets will cycle back.
There are some aspects of it that are more short-term and you can tend to realize those benefits quicker but as we look out we see this as a great opportunity to improve this business.
And what that will mean long term is we'll be more competitive we think we can take more share we'll drive more margins in the business.
I think another distinction to keep in mind is the $100 million and the SIHI efforts are separate in terms of the way you look at them from a financial standpoint.
But they are integrated in terms of how we're going to implement them and look at our global capacity.
Our next question comes from Joe Ritchie from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
So Mark just curious on the restructuring.
How much of the $100 million in costs and the related $70 million benefit how much of that is new versus plans that you already had in place? Then specifically across the business units where do you see the biggest opportunity? Two-thirds of it is really pulling for our strategic plans in terms of that cost.
About a third of it is what I'd say is more short-term market reaction.
Having said that we're also designing that component to be sustainable and long term.
What I mean by that is it's more than just variablizing headcount to the market which we have done some of that.
We continue to do some of that outside of this program.
We do have a lot of temporaries that we use to variablize in market increases and decreases.
That's separate from what we're talking about.
So two-thirds of this is really designed to reposition the business longer term.
What was the second part of your question Joe? Just specifically what business units do you expect to benefit most from it? Okay.
A lot of this is going to be a lot of our engineered capacity.
If you look at the legacy and the history of Flowserve a lot of the businesses have been in the mature markets a lot of the engineered capacity.
That's the type of capacity we have been building in the emerging parts of the world.
As you have heard us talk before we have gotten those plants up and running mainly to serve those local markets.
That's the way we like to set up new facilities.
Build the facility build the capabilities build the leadership team and then over time you migrate products into those facilities to serve the local markets and then also to serve and support markets around the world.
So what we have done is we made a significant amount of investment over the last four or five years in these facilities.
They take a while to get up and running.
These things don't come up or go down very very quickly.
A lot of this is going to be in our engineered and if you look in - but it's across all three segments.
Really we're going to be taking the opportunity to really improve all three segments of our business.
And then maybe one follow up on the organic growth.
You started off the year down three.
The guidance is about flat at the midpoint for the entire year.
Two questions there.
One where did you see the biggest change in your guidance? Because the number was closer to plus 6 before.
Was it upstream midstream downstream? And then secondly how much of the business that you were unable to ship this quarter do you expect to ship and is included in getting closer to the flat guidance for the year? So currency aside the adjustment on the revenue has been one we came into the year with on a constant currency basis 11% incremental backlog.
That's what in a sense at the point in time gave us confidence around our growth.
If you think about that constant currency was almost $300 million.
Obviously there has been a currency impact on the existing backlog and any future bookings that come in.
As we look forward a lot of the decrease was around market conditions.
What we see now is people will push off their decisions.
As to my comment earlier the refineries that need to be built in the Middle East need to be built there and we fully expect that they will be implemented.
We do understand as markets are in the current condition it becomes more competitive so most of the decrease is driven by market conditions.
The other thing in terms of when you look at a year in our business as things start to move out both from a booking standpoint and a revenue standpoint we now expect that those things will start to move into next year.
So those are really the two aspects that we see impacting the revenue guidance.
Primarily it's the market.
And it's just - Joe it's the way we see the market right now.
What's happened in the market is we have seen some normalization in the aftermarket side.
There are projects out there but nobody is rushing to get them to market.
So we'll just have to wait and see.
In general when you look at what can drive this people need to see some stability in oil markets and certainly the currency markets as well because while there is tremendous volatility and they don't know where things are going to move they're going to sit and wait.
We saw this again back in 2009 and then again the oil and gas market came on fairly strong for the reasons that we think long term there is going to be spend in the oil and gas market.
Hydrocarbons are finite.
Consumption will go up over a period of time.
People are urbanizing.
They need more power more energy.
All these things are going to drive our markets long term but when you see a disruption like you have seen oil being cut in half and even a little bit further over the short term people are going to pause.
Our next question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I want to also speak to the organic guidance because you know I guess what I am looking at is the bookings versus past history and believe me I know that there is nothing linear about bookings and sales.
But we really haven't seen the level of sales come through versus the bookings.
It's been actually fairly nonlinear.
If I look back after - excluding this quarter three out of the five previous quarters organic bookings were up double digits and into the teens.
Obviously on an organic sales basis we didn't see anything near that type of level of sales growth in the last six quarters.
So why would we think that an increase in organic backlog by 11% is going to produce kind of a different dynamic than what we have seen? Obviously we have seen a lot of pushouts.
So why do we think that we can get to a flattish organic in this environment even knowing that the bookings that we have seen in the backlog have continued to get pushed out on the delivery side? Scott I think that's it.
When the book-to-bill is greater than one over periods of time you are building backlog and that supports sales growth and future periods.
So what you see it's a leading indicator.
Book-to-bill greater than one will tend to drive all things being equal tend to drive sales up and then book-to-bill less than one obviously will drive sales down over that period of time.
But there are other factors.
One of the things and this is really a credit to our operations is that we've been executing better more available and on time delivery.
Now increasingly we find that when our product is available the facility is not necessarily ready for our product.
I think we have seen that fairly consistently over the last four or five quarters.
That's not a bad thing.
That means we're keeping our customers happy.
That's the aspect of what Tom has been talking about is we see things spill over to the subsequent quarter.
For reasons of execution we hope that continues because that's certainly a good thing.
As you look at our guidance I think Scott really the driver in terms of where we're if you think we're too aggressive on our guidance is going to be that constant currency backlog.
Obviously if the markets deteriorate further from here that's certainly going to put pressure on our revenues absolutely.
Obviously if they increase as well this is all currency aside it could have the other affect.
So I'm assuming that you are obviously very privy to all of the delivery schedule dates for what you have in the backlog but that you also took a haircut on that number for the 2015 guidance yes? When we look at things again this is a point in time and they can change but absolutely.
We look at our plans.
We look at our delivery plans.
We know what the dates are that we need to deliver to our customers.
And a lot of our forecasting it comes from the bottom up anticipates that.
Of course we'll sit and try to maybe work that a little bit in terms of market conditions but for the most part we try to keep the rigor around what we're hearing from our sites because they are the closest to the customer.
Understood.
The other question that I had was about the margin development that kind of gets you to the midpoint of the guidance range.
Obviously we'd be looking at margins to on a year-over-year basis look better going forward than they did in the first quarter and I understand the first quarter the $150 million of sales I understand all of that.
But was there anything other than that in the first quarter where it was a pretty weak margin number that we saw in the quarter.
Was there anything other than the push backs of sales that impacted the quarter? Was there anything mix or even some pricing? Because obviously the guidance does contemplate an improvement in the year-over-year comparisons and margin going forward.
You know Scott you and I have come a long way when we're saying 13.8% margins in the first quarter are low.
To that point I think if you see one of the things that drove it is lower fixed cost leverage in our business.
So part of what we get around SG&amp;A leverage and we really haven't seen that for the last five quarters is top line drives that fixed cost leverage in the business.
So part of it is we do expect on a comparative basis relative to Q1 if you look at our revenue guidance to get some of that fixed cost leverage as well.
There are continuing efforts around operational improvements.
But the other thing to keep in mind aside from the $100 million we talked about we haven't been sitting still in the first quarter.
We've been pulling levers around some costs managing costs very tightly relative to where we were last year all with a desire to drive margins in our business.
Those are really the three things but I think the important thing is don't just look at the $100 million in isolation.
We're doing other things to make sure that we try to drive growth in our business and margin improvement comparative margin improvement in our business.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
If we could just go over to the inorganic opportunities that you alluded to a little bit in your prepared comments I know over the last few years you'd been looking to focus internally and then the SIHI came along and you bought that.
With the $100 million in restructuring where do you feel like the bandwidth is to take on additional inorganic growth at this point? That is absolutely a factor we consider in terms of when we look at an opportunity is the ability to execute and integrate it.
As I've referenced at a high level and Tom did specifically a lot of the issues around the $100 million we've brought in some notable talent to help us execute that.
What I would say is excluding businesses that are busy integrating right now I mean IPD is busy on an integration we think there's certainly bandwidth if we see a good opportunity.
I think that's probably the important thing to note is the way we see the inorganic market right now is memories are long in terms of the pricing environment of last summer and it takes a while for that to work its way through the system and so if you look at and we have certainly seen this before.
So we consider the bandwidth.
We consider the pricing environment.
We also consider the alternatives of allocation to capital.
If you look at the $100 million with the $70 million return that is a great return on that investment.
And honestly if we see more opportunities like that in our business we will prioritize that.
We also see a good opportunity and we have continued to return value to our shareholders.
So we'll balance all of those at the end of the day but bandwidth is something we'd consider and when we look over all at our businesses.
For example you look at our valve business it's certainly fragmented.
They have been executing at a high level.
I'd say bandwidth is available there.
Okay and just on the Venezuela devaluation is that all remeasuring the balance sheet non-cash? Yes it is.
Some of it was above the line because you have to take lower cost to market adjustment.
But I think you have seen other multinationals do this as well.
It's mostly non-cash.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
I was hoping you could expand on the comment that's in the release that you are seeing customers focused on price competition.
I know you said that there has been no backlog repricing that's real important and that's good to see.
Just maybe within the business that you're booking this quarter are there price concessions in there? As we look at opportunities absolutely.
Our customers are certainly very savvy and they say we see the market environment right now.
We see that these companies want to fill their factories book business in and we're going to take advantage of that.
We saw this last time.
It actually persisted from a very price strength in our industry at the end of 2008 to it flipped very quickly in 2009 and persisted for about a 1.5 years during that period of time.
That's certainly what customers do.
Keep in mind Deane at the end of the day they do value quality.
Lead times are very very important in the business as well.
So for the most part our customers understand the ability to deliver a quality product that meets the process conditions that you can support over a period of time but I definitely don't want to ignore the fact that price comes in.
My comment earlier is okay that's the market.
We need to respond.
We need to drive price out of our business.
Part of this realignment strategy is to do just that to further drive to our low cost manufacturing so we can respond on price not only in this environment but when the markets have more pricing power for our industry to be able to drive more margin in the business.
Deane I would add to that that we have been approached by several customers and we have approached several customer in terms of taking the overall cost out of the value chain itself.
Things like cycle time reduction while that may not result in a product cost reduction on our side it could result in a significant change for the customer as we work through specifications available with them as we work through product simplification and take out time in their overall schedule.
We're also looking at project bundling that will cut down on their overall project spend and project time which will bring their overall cycle time down.
There is more ways to get at that value added other than just cost although there is general cost pressure across the industry.
Are any of your non U.S.
competitors now using the stronger dollar as a weapon and how they compete for business? You know as you look - a lot of our costs where we manufacture are basically in Euros.
I mean they're in other currencies as well.
That's the benefit of having a global footprint.
We have the ability to do work in low cost regions of the world or there are certainly other parts of the world.
I would tell you Deane if you look at currency movements over the short-term they do impact multinationals but over long term things balance out.
What I mean by that is if you think about where we were four or five years ago the Euro at 150 it was very difficult even in a good market at that point in time for our European facilities to compete in the global arena.
Now look where the Euro is right now.
It's easier for them to compete.
That's the way things work over the long term.
But typically as a multinational industrial you have to get over the year-over-year compare on the currency.
Our next question comes from Kevin Maczka from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Can we just go back to SIHI for a minute? I understand why you are stripping that out of the guide for the year because with the one-time purchase accounting and other costs it will be $0.25 diluted.
But I think that business last year was doing about $350 million growing mid-single digits.
Can you just give an update on your expectations there for the year? Is it being impacted in terms of the bookings rate the same way that the base business is? You saw the bookings in the first quarter.
In general they are certainly being impacted by currency as our other businesses are as well.
Again we just acquired this business.
Part of the reason we acquired it is we thought we could grow and think we can grow their top line opportunities but we need to get that thing online and driven.
So we see the opportunity to grow the business over the short-term.
It too has been affected by the markets as well.
I mean it's a leading provider of vacuum pumps into the chemical industry which was impacted short-term during that period of time.
It is not immune from our markets.
What we think we can do over the next couple quarters is drive some of the growth opportunities we saw by having our global sales platform.
So the way I will say is it is on plan.
It is as we expected over on the business.
I really don't want to start breaking out any sub businesses or anything and start guiding revenue from that point in time especially when we're only two three months into the acquisition at this point.
But I can tell you relative to our expectations the integration is on track.
We have seen some additional revenue opportunities in the business and some cost opportunities as well.
Again being in Europe these things will certainly take time but we have actually seen the opportunity to take some of our capacity and leverage theirs as well.
In terms of accretion Mark I think your original view and I don't know that you have changed it was that it would be accretive immediately in 2015 but it's of course $0.25 dilutive with all the onetime costs up front.
Is that still at least the way to be thinking about this? Excluding the one timer that this is a nicely accretive deal this year and then it grows after that if things go well? The underlying business is profitable if that's your question absent all the purchase accounting and the realignment costs associated with it.
The underlying business is profitable.
It too like us tends to have a slow start in the beginning of the year our entire industry does and ramp up towards the end of the year.
So it will have the same cadence.
We hope to change and enhance that cadence in years to come as we drive more sales through our sales organization but the underlying business is profitable.
Our next question comes from Robert Barry from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
So I just wanted to start with a follow up on the guidance question.
It looks like the midpoint of the constant currency revenue came down by about 6 points but the midpoint of the earnings guidance ex the currency adjustment only came down $0.15 which seems like somewhat of a disconnect unless there is material margin improvement.
I was curious about how you explain that? One of the comments I made is around the earnings side there are things we're doing below revenue line to drive earnings.
I think the levers that we pull over on the business.
Another thing to keep in mind is part of the revenue impact is in project original equipment which tends to be lower margin overall in our business.
Those are two of the aspects as well.
So if you look at it we have been responding overall and we do anticipate that if the original equipment comes down we'll see more aftermarket mix in our business.
Got you.
When you say below the line are you referring to things like repos stock repurchase.
No sorry.
I am talking about below the revenue line.
You said hey here is what's going on the revenue line tell me how you get down to the bottom.
And I said we're doing a lot of work starting at cost of sales through SG&amp;A and certainly our repurchase plan does as well all the way to the EPS line.
Got you.
Maybe just a little bit bigger picture.
Many of the other pump and valve players with oil and gas exposure started to see weakness earlier in Q4 even through Q1 and it sounds like you really just started to see it in a material way in March.
I was curious how you would explain that lag.
Well as Tom referenced in his comments we saw a strong Q4 overall in the business and typically we often expect a slower start in January and February in our industry particularly if you look at some of the national oil companies around the world.
Often their budgets aren't approved into January or February.
It's just the way their political system works in the business.
So often times historically we have seen good upticks in March and we're anticipating some of that and it didn't come through.
Again Robert I think as I've said earlier is if you think what was occurring in February and well into March is there was a lot of volatility and uncertainty around the price of oil and an investment decision and a budget $30 which is half the pundits we're saying versus $80 is significantly different and so they'll hold in that part of the business.
But part of it is we saw a strong Q4 in our business.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes so actually most of my questions have been answered maybe just a little bit more on the aftermarket.
Are you seeing any increased competition on that end of the business or is there any trends towards in sourcing of some of that work potentially to save in the near-term? I don't know if the customer base has that capability or not.
If they do have you seen any of that happen? Not really.
Over time we actually expect that they're going to continue to outsource.
A lot of it is because some of the engineering talent frankly in the mature markets is retiring as we have been looking at that and our ability to be able to respond quickly.
Really the reason they will in source is either they feel like they have the critical mass to support a maintenance group or they're concerned that they can't get the responsiveness from an external provider over all in the business.
But we haven't seen any in sourcing.
That wasn't really what impacted the business overall.
Again it was more only maintenance that we really saw that was done what was had to be done.
Optional maintenance and the efficiency upgrades those were curved back.
Again just the other things is if you look at the refinery strike that will certainly slow down spend significantly around maintenance.
Maybe secondly on the orders so down 13%.
Can you quantify how much of that decline was driven purely by price? Most of that was volume in terms of activity.
There was some price impact over all the business but most of that was volume Brian.
Our next question comes from Andrew Obin from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
The first question on these refinery maintenance pushouts because we ever been told that some of these pushouts actually are going to materialize during the summer or fall simply because to your point you can't really not maintain refineries.
Can you quantify what kind of pick up you are going to see over the next couple quarters from some of the pushouts actually happening? Yes.
Last thing I want to do is start guidance specifically on our aftermarket other than to say if you look over time it has been relatively stable.
You have seen whereas Tom talked about commission spares and I think I have referenced these before.
Part of our aftermarket business is when you sell a new project you sell spares that will sit there when they start up the facility because things naturally need to be replaced during that period of time.
But you're right it is a deferral around maintenance and they will not defer into perpetuity.
I can tell you you have seen where if refinery spreads GAAP out real quick they'll try to extended run-time because that's profit.
They're going to take advantage of the profit while they can.
If there is big uncertainty they'll defer it as much as they can.
Having said that they can only go so far because then it becomes - basic maintenance becomes an operational or a safety issue.
The other comment what we're hearing a lot from big energy companies and then percolating down to companies is the fact that there is a little bit of a cash flow.
There is something of a cash crunch in the energy industry for various reasons.
How do you guys respond to that in terms of your service model? How can you accommodate your customers to keep the market share and maybe to grow the market share in this environment? Are there any changes that you are making to the terms of your service projects not necessarily pricing but what else are you doing to accommodate your customer base? Thank you.
Sure.
If you look on the cash side the cash they're conserving and rationalizing tends to be on the large capital projects.
That's where the big dollars are.
The big dollars are not in maintenance aftermarket and then you think about also retrofits and upgrades.
Those are comparatively small in terms of the large projects.
If you think about our aftermarket business from time to time like we saw in the first quarter last year you will see a notable $6 million $7 million upgrade package.
For the most part these are small ticket items.
The projects are the big ticket items.
If you are hearing it from E&amp;Cs and you're hearing it from customers those are both in the areas where you are seeing the big ticket items.
What they will do is look in terms of their cash deployment and when those will ultimately come online and that's how they manage our cash.
They've been doing that now some of the integrateds have been rationalizing cash for probably about the last year.
One of the things that obviously we can do is work on the lead times.
We can bring the overall project lead times down through some of the things that I previously mentioned.
That would help in the overall cash position hanging that cash out there over a longer period of time.
Our next question comes from Chase Jacobson from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Just one housekeeping did you give the organic backlog excluding the SIHI contribution on the constant currency basis? I think in some of our comments it would be in the press release we told you rolling it from Q4 the impact of currency and the impact of SIHI.
I think they in effect offset each other.
Okay.
I'll take a look back at that.
And then just one more on the pricing competition.
You have given good color on it but I was just curious if you are seeing any specific competitors go after price a little bit more aggressively? I know you saw it in the last cycle.
So you guys are pretty disciplined but I am just curious if there is any market share risk? If there are any domestic or international competitors taking it more aggressively than others? We do see competitors from time to time and for different reasons be very competitive on price.
That does occur as it did last time.
In general what I'd say is most of our mature competitors seem to be fairly rational overall in the business.
I think we have talked about years ago there was a competitor that was in a sense up for sale and owned by private equity and they filled a lot of their backlog.
But for the most part we have seen reasonable behavior.
What does that mean? That can apply to us as well.
You look at absorption in your factories and you make a tradeoff between do I want to absorb it or do I want to rationalize the facility over that period of time? Sometimes to absorb it you have to go aggressively after a project.
Another example is on one of the Middle East projects that we booked years ago it was very very competitive.
We were able to get it secure the pumps and the seals in the business and I can tell you it still pays a very strong aftermarket annuity.
I think what I am pointing out is in general this environment will cause people to be more aggressive on price.
Part of the message you are hearing from us is we will stay balanced and disciplined and take advantage and take the opportunity to really start driving cost out of our system manufacturing costs out of our system long term.
Our next question comes from Joe Giordano from Cowen.
To follow on what you just said how would you judge the margin inherent in your incremental backlog that you are building today versus what's flowing through currently based on what you booked last year? Well you should expect overall the projects the margin is going to be less than it was before all other things being equal.
How do we offset some of that? We turn to our supply chain.
We're still continuing to improve our operating platform.
We do things like take under absorption out of our business drive costs out of our business.
I want to make sure the message is clear.
We're not just letting the market drive us.
We can't control it but we can respond to it.
But you should expect when projects become more competitive all other things being equal impact margins.
If you look at the aftermarket business that's held relatively stable high level margins consistently through cycles.
We don't expect that to change.
Then the run-rate business can be impacted on the margin side but a lot of that is being able to respond very very quickly and respond not only to delivery times the process conditions and be responsive.
But the run-rate business is not immune from having margin pressure in a down environment.
One more question on aftermarket more strategic and we talked about in sourcing earlier.
Part of your strategy and you've talked about it a lot in the last couple of quarters has been going after your existing customers and trying to take that business that they're currently doing in house and to me that seems like a really [Technical Difficulty].
I can't hear Joe.
Can you guys hear me? I can hear you now.
Sorry.
What you've said in the last couple quarters on aftermarket and your strategy of actually going after your customers' business that they are doing in house and that seems particularly poignant today when I assume most of your customers are very wary of fixed cost.
And I was wondering if you've seen any if that's been a good development recently? That's been a continuing development.
I think what we're trying to do to accelerate that and this was in response to the first or second question is we have to know where our product is to go and take advantage of it.
So there are a lot of customers that we aren't serving that are either doing their own maintenance it could be a local machine shop that's taking care of these products.
We need to know where they are and where the product is what type of product it is to go and actually call on them.
So that's part of the investment that we're making right now in terms of capturing that.
But on a continuous basis we're looking for ways to get customers to provide us with the ability to service the equipment and not only does it come in the form of an alliance agreement where we'll take on a multi-year obligation to do that or just the one off.
Go in and calling on the customer.
We have engineers that go on site that say look I can bring some efficiency.
It is not just repairing and maintaining it.
It's also going in and saying we can improve the efficiency of the operation of this overall facility because if you think about our equipment our equipment drives the facility.
It's what energizes the flow control process.
In effect controls the flow control process and also protects the environment in terms of our ceiling solutions.
I mean we fundamentally believe that we have a lot of opportunities in the reliability and availability aspect of the customers' plants.
So we have plans in monitoring and diagnostics asset management optimization programs and then as Mark mentioned the whole area about establishing the databases in terms of where our products are and categorizing that in many of our plants around the world.
That will present another opportunity.
And then a third aspect is on the sales side where we're driving account based sales programs in the aftermarket similar to what we have done in the new equipment side of the business over the last couple of years.
We're going to be doing that on the aftermarket side of the business.
Our next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just two quick ones most of mine have been answered.
If we can go to the CapEx side what was the component for new way air bearings license? And what does it mean for you? Are you talking about in our cash flow statement the additional CapEx? Right.
One of those was the bearings but we also entered into another license agreement really to enhance our aftermarket opportunities to get access to products so we can provide aftermarket services.
So you saw the bearings one.
That's a real opportunity around our ceiling solutions but we also entered into another one.
Some of them we put press releases.
Sometimes some of our partners and everything like that are more sensitive about that but that's basically what you saw.
So there were two transactions.
And ballpark combined those versus the China plant expansion? Yes you also saw that as well.
If you look at our CapEx this year a big part of it was those licensing relationships we talked about that drive revenue growth.
Also our China expansion both on the valve side but also in the China power that we talked about earlier and expansion in India and Latin America.
So we're to this point we're certainly aware of our markets but we're leaning into them and taking advantage of the opportunity to drive and create even more low cost capacity for our business long term.
And you should expect that we're accelerating plans now to migrate into that capacity and we will continue do that over the years to come.
That's how we position this business to be more competitive.
And maybe just a last one given where you are in the quarter this is seasonally a down quarter in terms of cash flow but you have also made an acquisition.
I think you are at the highest debt to cap in quite some time.
What do you expect the debt to cap ratio to be at year end? Well I mean obviously you can model out our cash flow and look over where we going to be over the period of time and we expect to generate cash as we have historically.
And the other aspect of it is return value to our shareholders as well.
So in general we think at this point we're kind of at the top end of the range but we're also to your point where we're in the year where we're drawing most cash out of our system and it will end to generate and it will take that leverage down.
Specifically where it's going to be can depend on a number of things.
It will be just really around our capital allocation policies.
If we see opportunity to drive value for our shareholders through capital allocation we will take advantage of that and that will impact our leverage ratio.
The important thing to remember is you look at the deal we did the European deal we have access to the capital markets.
We've got a very very strong balance sheet.
This is what you want to see.
You want a company that's positioning itself in these type of markets is to have a strong balance sheet a good operating platform a strong leadership organization and the ability to lean into these markets and take advantage and reposition the business.
That's what we're doing.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
We have reached our allotted time.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve's 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Call.
My name is Paulette and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Mr.
Roueche you may begin.
Thank you Operator and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss Flowserve Corporation's financial results for the second quarter of 2015.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Karyn Ovelmen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this event is being webcast and an audio replay will be available later today.
Before turning the call over to Mark I will note that we filed our Form 10-Q issued a press release and prepared an earnings presentation for our second quarter 2015 results which are all available on our website at flowserve.com in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally please also be aware our earnings material do and this call will include non-GAAP measures.
Among the non-GAAP figures cited include our adjusted earnings per share metric.
We have reconciled our adjusted EPS as well as other adjusted metrics to our reported results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles which can be found in both our press release and earnings presentation.
Please also be aware that this call and our associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements which are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of July 30 2015.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control and except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's second quarter materials as well as our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional detail.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's second quarter materials as well as our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Flowserve delivered solid operating results in the 2015 second quarter in light of the current business climate.
As you know the challenging markets we experienced earlier in the year extended into the second quarter with broad-based capital spending declines a strong U.S.
dollar low oil prices and heightened pricing pressure on new orders.
Headwinds in many of our emerging markets also increased last quarter adding to the tough business environment.
Although there were some signs of reduced volatility in the quarter with oil prices and currency trading in a tight range overall market uncertainty continued.
Our outlook for the rest of 2015 has moderated with the assumption that current market conditions will persist.
With this updated view in combination with our first half results we've adjusted our revenue and earnings guidance.
Despite these challenges Flowserve is performing well operationally and is navigating the current business environment.
Although customers remained deliberate and measured in the release of new orders and acceptance of finished goods Flowserve's adjusted sequential bookings and sales increased by double digits reflecting our normal seasonal increase.
On a year-over-year basis our bookings excluding SIHI were down roughly 15% on a constant currency basis.
This was a tough compare period since as you may recall our bookings a year ago included a few mid and larger size projects including our largest award in 2014 which together made last year’s second quarter our strongest booking period since 2008.
Our aftermarket franchise performed well despite continued maintenance deferrals in some of our markets and lower parts and spares activity tied to new project orders.
Many refining and chemical customers delayed upgrade projects and maintenance to take advantage of current strong profit periods.
Even with these deferrals our aftermarket bookings declined only 5% on a constant currency basis demonstrating the resiliency of the MRO business.
While our adjusted gross and operating margins declined in the second quarter as compared to the prior year primarily as result of lower levels of activity and the currency impact our operating platform remained solid.
The operating improvement we've implemented over the last few years in product quality on-time delivery customer responsiveness and manufacturing efficiency have taken hold which allows us to focus on Flowserve's next evolution permanent reductions in our cost structure.
As we announced on last quarter's call we've accelerated our strategic manufacturing optimization and cost efficiency plans.
These type of changes take careful planning and execution to ensure customers are not impacted and to comply with local requirements but we are aggressively proceeding.
These structural changes will provide us increase flexibility to compete in the current market environment.
It will further improve the efficiency of our operating platform and enhance our competitive position when conditions improve.
We are also meeting increased customer expectations through our ongoing efforts to improve our low cost sourcing and increasing our emerging region capabilities which is where new capacity investment will be concentrated.
This greater geographic flexibility when combined with our attractive and diverse end market exposures increases our ability to capture opportunity when it occurs.
We've invested substantial capital in recent years increasing our capabilities in emerging markets including China India and Brazil.
These facilities have now built a track record of performance and are prepared to permanently take work from some of our higher cost facilities in developed geographies.
Turning now to our second quarter activity by regional market excluding SIHI and currency bookings were down in all regions with the exception of the Middle East and Africa.
In North America our largest end-market bookings held up reasonably well considering the macro environment and we are down less than 1% while sales were up modestly.
Many of the headwinds I discussed earlier applied to North America but with all of the infrastructure projects that are underway or in the planning stages opportunities do remain in the region.
Europe was a story of two extremes this quarter bookings were down over 35% but sales were up over 20% as we work through that regions backlog.
In last year second quarter Europe had its largest booking quarter since 2008.
So this year's decline was against a tough compare that included some of the mid and larger size projects which we discussed a year ago.
Bookings in the Middle East and Africa region were up over 4% in the second quarter.
Even as this region tends to be an oil and gas driven economy the national oil companies operating there continue to demonstrate a somewhat consistent long-term approach to investment.
Asia-Pacific was down double-digit percentages in both bookings and sales reflecting slower growth in some major countries and increased price competition from local market participants.
Latin America remains a very challenge region with political and financial headwinds in a few of the larger countries which means it could get worse in the near-term.
As a result bookings and sales were both down in the region this quarter.
We remain encouraged by future opportunities in Mexico as a result of the anticipated foreign investment in the oil and gas sector and we believe that in the long-term this region will return to growth.
While we are responding to current market conditions it is important to also keep a long-term view.
When we look at the big picture we expect that our served industries will return to growth in the long-term.
In fact end-user demand for electricity refine products and chemicals is increasing while existing infrastructure continues to age.
Therefore even as we take permanent actions to improve our cost structure and operating platform which will further our competitiveness we remain very focused on growth and future opportunities within our markets.
Last quarter I mentioned some of our initiatives including expansion in targeted end-market such as Asia Power and chemical as well as our strategies to better align our selling practices with our customers buying preferences through key accounts expanded distribution sales and product bundling.
Together these efforts should enhance our opportunities in any market condition.
Driving greater value through our aftermarket platform remains a growth priority.
As our products become increasingly complex and in-house maintenance crews near retirement we believe the value proposition from our aftermarket services will only increase.
As in prior cycles we continue to make disciplined investments to expand our local presence and target a greater capture of our global installed base.
These investments include new QRCs but primarily encompass initiatives to increase capabilities within the existing footprint to leverage our full installed base and to increase synergies by combining facilities where it makes sense.
We are encouraged by the opportunities created from the SIHI acquisition.
And we will continue to evaluate other growth initiatives as well as pursue opportunities to optimize within our existing portfolio to drive long-term profitable growth and shareholder value.
Inorganic investments that meet our standards provide opportunities to leverage our global scale and improve the utilization of our manufacturing and QRC footprint.
And private sellers appear to be slowly adjusting their valuation expectations.
All of our activities around our portfolio are evaluated using disciplined return requirements with a focus on shareholders including our commitment to an efficient capital allocation and structure.
Turning to our outlook for the remainder of the year there are mixed signs.
The second quarter stability in currency levels in oil prices was a positive start although volatility returned to the commodity in July.
The continued high level of utilization of our customer’s facilities combined with the recent deferrals support higher levels of maintenance and repair work in future periods.
This type of activity cannot be delayed indefinitely.
But the timing is difficult to predict.
Additionally the current level of asset utilization will also tend to support our run rate OE work as customers focus on the efficiency of their facilities and associated upgrades.
The challenges to our outlook are primarily fewer expected project opportunities in the near-term with increased price competition in headwinds in emerging regions.
We believe our experience in similar market conditions combined with the aggressive proactive measures we’re taking will position Flowserve for success.
Although we have moderated our outlook for this year and have taken a cautious outlook regarding any near-term market recovery I remain confident in our business model our strategy and most importantly our people taken together we're focused on delivering value for both our customers and shareholders as we position Flowserve for the future.
Lastly I would like to welcome Karyn Ovelmen our new CFO to this firm.
You will be hearing from her shortly.
But I will note that she has hit the ground running during her first two months.
And I look forward to Karen's leadership and contributions as we go forward to drive long-term shareholder value while navigating near-term market challenges.
But first let me turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
As Mark highlighted market conditions remain challenging.
We’re reasonably pleased in this type of an environment that our book to bill this quarter was close to one excluding SIHI at 0.97.
This helped ensure that our organic backlog remained intact and was even up modestly year-over-year on a constant currency basis which provide support to our revised 2015 outlook.
Longer term we continue to believe in the growth opportunities within our industry as the fundamental drivers for the infrastructure business has not fundamentally changed.
To respond to the current market however and to position Flowserve for the future we announced last quarter that we're accelerating our planned long-term manufacturing optimization strategies.
These actions are permanent structural changes that will close capacity or reposition activity in many of our existing higher cost developed region facilities while leveraging our significant investments made and our enhanced capabilities in lower-cost emerging markets.
As part of this initiative we will also make greater use of third-party suppliers to reduce our fixed cost structure.
Since that announcement we have made notable progress towards our goals.
This effort will not be a quick or easy transformation but we are moving forward with a sense of urgency.
We also implemented a cost efficiency initiative to reduce our headcount expense structure to align with the current business environment.
Together we are targeting roughly $100 million of investment which we expect would generate at least $70 million in annualized savings once we implement all of our actions in mid -to-later 2016.
In the second quarter we recognized $24.7 million of realignment charges for these initiatives and expect to execute on most of the remaining actions by year end.
Despite these significant changes our employees have remained focused during this busy period continuing to deliver on our commitments to our customers.
Our on-time delivery metrics past-due backlog of 4% and second quarter’s solid margin performance together demonstrated continued efforts and culture of execution.
Looking at the booking environment the lower-level project opportunities we saw in the first half of 2015 has increased competitive pressure on the business that is available in the market.
Customers are seeking greater value from their investment dollar.
This conversation typically initiates as our pricing discussion and our initiatives to drive our cost will help respond to this request.
However we are also demonstrating how Flowserve can support their goals with our unique value proposition beyond price alone.
By leveraging our global reach and comprehensive flow control portfolio we can deliver value to our customers through product bundling certifying lower cost facilities and collaborating earlier and project design work.
We believe this approach is consistent with our focus on leveraging the underlying strength of our platform in driving profitable growth.
From an aftermarket standpoint we delivered constant currency bookings that were down only 5% excluding SIHI which showed signs of resiliency we generally expect.
The first quarter labor strikes that affected many U.S.
refining and chemical customers have largely ended which is a positive development.
However in addition to managing their capital budgets tightly strong margins of some of these customers are currently producing resulted in continued deferrals of maintenance work to later periods.
So that they can capitalize on current period of profitability.
Given the combination of these takedown deferrals lower upgrade opportunities and fewer parts and spares tied to new units we do expect continued headwinds in our aftermarket business for the remainder of the year.
The good news is this delayed work was not lost.
It just represents a future opportunity.
Even with the expected near-term challenges to our aftermarket business we view this franchise as a solid resilient foundation.
We continue to invest in and execute on our strategies to increase our aftermarket capture.
Key to this effort is increasing our ability to support clients possessing our installed base as well as assisting in their broader reliability and maintenance opportunities.
At the same time with further identifying pockets of installed base increasing our localization efforts including new QRCs enhancing the capabilities of some of our existing facilities and consolidating all those where appropriate.
Growing our aftermarket franchise remains a top priority and opportunity for Flowserve.
Looking at the end markets during the second quarter on a constant currency basis and excluding SIHI for a clean comparison we have long gas bookings declined roughly 24%.
This industry is experiencing both highs and lows.
Offstream customers are suffering from low oil prices.
However the mid and downstream assets remain highly utilized as the demand for the finished product remains strong.
Both service predominately mid and downstream supplier of these customer’s efforts to maximize current period profits and delay new work where possible certainly affected us.
Looking at a couple of oil and gas regions Latin America remain challenged as Mark mentioned.
Latin America as a whole got worse as Petrobras works through their issues and resets budgets.
And Venezuela’s financial crisis constrains Petrovesa's activity.
In Middle East and Africa proposal activity has remained solid which supports the thesis that this region would take a longer-term view towards continued investment.
With strong end-user demand from the mid and downstream markets we believe investment activity as well as maintenance and repair opportunity is building.
We will remain on the horizon near-term as we do not forecast a meaningful pickup in the second half of 2015 beyond our normal seasonal patterns.
In the chemical market second quarter bookings decreased by almost 17% versus a strong compare in 2014.
We continue to expect ethylene expansion in North America with derivative plants related to the new capacity expected to come online over the next two years as well as a number of new projects in various preconstruction stages.
Similar to our refining customers chemical margins are also currently solid for our customers.
And while the economic support continued investment timing is always difficult to forecast.
Regionally Middle East and North American chemical expansion remains a solid opportunity ahead.
Early in 2015 we increased our chemical presence substantially with the acquisition of SIHI.
The integration of SIHI is going well and we remained pleased with the opportunities created from this acquisition.
In the power market our bookings increased 11.6% versus prior year's quarter.
In the U.S.
coal retirements and low-cost natural gas are careless for combined cycle plants since expected electricity demand is increasing.
Asia continues to invest in fossil based plants and our local capabilities in the region improves our competitiveness for this work.
China's new nuclear plans were the first since 2011 creating an opportunity for incremental work.
Flowserve has provided nuclear products for reactors worldwide and our capabilities and end stamp certifications are differentiating factors in a market where safety is critical.
In addition to China Russia and South Korea see continued development in nuclear power and Europe is discussing new capacity in some regions as well.
If India approves limits to nuclear supplier liability that region could also potentially be a meaningful catalyst for Flowserve’s nuclear work.
Following the new safety standards Japan is getting closer to restarting a portion of its nuclear capacity which has been idle since 2011.
Bookings in our general industry markets were down a combined 12.8% in the second quarter as increased agricultural bookings and flattish food-to-beverage awards were more than offset by declines in our other markets in this segment.
For the distribution channel de-stocking continued and these customers were slow to restock.
Like deferred maintenance these orders will return in the future.
But in the interim our customers maintain a cautious approach.
We have increased our focus on this channel with the new leader additional resources and a fresh strategic direction.
Wrapping up my prepared comments while near-term uncertainty continues to impact many of our customers in end markets Flowserve will remain focused on what we can control including increased aftermarket capture operational excellence targeted growth initiatives product development and realignment of our global manufacturing base.
We continue to believe in the long-term drivers of growth in our key energy markets and are confident that the actions we are taking will better position Flowserve when our customers resume their growth investments.
With that overview let me now turn it over it to Karyn.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to joining the call today.
My first as Flowserve’s CFO.
From my time thus far with the company I am excited about the opportunities ahead and I believe we are well-positioned to continue to progress the company’s made over recent years to further drive value for our customers and shareholders.
Following Mark and Tom's reviews let me now focus on the financial highlights.
Following our challenging first quarter we were pleased with some stability in the second quarter which enabled sequential constant currency increases in bookings and revenues of 11.3% and 15.6% respectively excluding SIHI.
Q2 2015 sales of almost $1.2 billion increased 4.8% on a constant currency basis and included $77 million from SIHI.
Excluding SIHI sales were down 1.5% compared to last year on a constant currency basis.
Turning to margins.
Excluding the $14.3 million charges related to our strategic realignment initiatives and impact of SIHI adjusted gross margins were 34.5% down approximately 60 basis points from a year ago.
Our focus on tight cost control was again demonstrated this quarter.
Excluding the effect of SIHI and realignment SG&amp;A dollars decreased year-over-year by over $30 million reflecting our alignment with shareholders and the ability to flex to current market conditions.
Turning to our adjusted operating margins.
The year-over-year decline is largely volume related.
Adjusted operating margins were approximately 40 basis points lower than a year ago but still solid at 15.5%.
Our second quarter tax rate of approximately 29% is in line with our guidance of 30% to 31%.
Second quarter adjusted EPS of $0.80 includes $0.06 per share of negative currency translations and excludes $0.24 per share of adjusted items comprised of $0.13 of realignment $0.10 of net SIHI dilution and a penny of below the line currency impact.
Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.56.
Turning to cash flows.
Operating cash flow improved about 52% compared to the 2014 second quarter.
Free cash flow also improved despite an increased level of CapEx spending and represented approximately $0.60 per share.
As I mentioned our capital expenditures for the quarter were up versus prior year as we continue to invest organically to grow our business.
In total we invested almost $30 million in capital expenditures during the period as we made disciplined investments in our business including increasing our aftermarket strategies and emerging market capabilities to support long-term growth.
Similar to prior periods of slower end market activity we will continue to pursue organic growth initiatives within our business.
Returning capital to shareholders also remains a key priority for Flowserve and in the first half of the year we returned over $185 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
Approximately $325 million remained available under our current share repurchase plan authorization at quarter end.
And we remain committed to our financial policies with regards to returning capital to shareholders.
Primary working capital as a percentage of our trailing 12-months sales improved modestly to 26.5% versus 29.6% a year ago excluding SIHI.
With regards to 2015 outlook and EPS guidance as the company evaluated its prior guidance we balance the current market conditions against the second quarter’s relative stability in currencies the price of oil and in our challenging market.
We took into account our first half results with an expectation for further delays and deferrals in the second half which resulted in Flowserve revising its 2015 full year adjusted EPS guidance.
We now expect 2015 adjusted EPS between $3.10 and $3.40 on revenues that are down between 10% and 15%.
Currency changes are a major year-over-year factor in our guidance.
And as we indicated previously a roughly 10% FX headwind on revenues impacts EPS by around $0.40.
Consistent with our previous approach our guidance excludes both SIHI’s revenues and its expected $0.25 per share net dilution for the year.
Our adjusted EPS range also excludes the expense of our $100 million realignment plan below the line currency impacts as well as other specific one-time events such as the first quarter's Venezuelan remeasurement.
Our guidance also suggests that 2015 will reflect our traditional seasonality with earnings more weighted to the second half of the year.
SIHI has been performing in line with our expectations and is expected to follow a similar seasonal trend.
Finally we still expect capital expenditures in the $170 million to $180 million range for 2015.
At this level we will continue to position our business to grow organically and profitably by improving our capabilities around the world.
Before turning the call back to Jay I would like to mention that I am very much looking forward to meeting with many of you over the coming months.
Although in the near-term Flowserve faces challenging markets.
Over the longer term the fundamentals remain very strong.
Our diversified end markets comprehensive product portfolio and geographic exposures coupled with our growth initiatives and cost reductions positions us very well today and into the future.
I look forward to discussing with all of our stakeholders Flowserve's competitive positioning and our continued focus on creating meaningful shareholder value.
Jay? Thanks Karyn.
Operator we have concluded our prepared remarks.
We would now like to begin the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Scott Graham from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
And welcome Karen.
I really only have two questions for you.
Tom it sounds to me like you are pulling forward the benefits of the restructuring tag to be about $70 million.
Is that a fair way to read your comments? I mean I would say if you look at the $100 million of the cost and the $70 million of benefit we are trying to execute that as soon as possible.
A lot of is going to -- like we said in the mid to later part of 2016.
We will however try to maximize that as much as possible.
But it’s going to take a direction because some of these initiatives are pretty complicated.
Understood.
Second question is really I think equally as simple and maybe more for you Mark.
The push outs of the deferrals affecting the aftermarket and your services and what have you obviously those things do have to happen at some point.
But you are saying I think you are saying implied in your guidance is that you are not expecting them in the second half of the year.
Is there some type of catalyst? Is there a trigger that you guys are watching here that is okay at time? Is it oil at may be a little bit higher level to hurt those refining margins and to take them off line because obviously oil at a higher level helps you in one way potentially down the line but certainly hurts you on a more near-term basis in the other way.
Is it the price of oil? Is it the price of ethylene? What are some of the triggers Mark? Well it’s primarily going to be the spread between what they can retail and what they can acquire the crude product and that’s gapped out quite a bit.
If you’ve been to the pump recently it hasn’t fully reflected what you’ve seen occur at the price per barrel of oil.
So that'll tend to -- refiners kind of like a bond.
They are going to generate as much cash as they can for long as they can.
But in no instance will they put the refinery in harms way.
So I'm not -- didn't push it out.
And typically these are scheduled take downs regular scheduled maintenance.
So they can push them out for a period time.
I think the best thing to do is -- they make some commentary.
I think some of the refiners were talking about turnarounds and expense in the beginning of next year.
So both typically talk about that because they communicate this as a positive.
They said look we are making a lot of money.
We are going to run these things flat out for a period of time.
But it depends on a customer-by-customer basis but typically these are scheduled take downs.
So I’m not suggesting -- they are putting these things in harms way but they do need to eventually efficiencies will start to get impacted and they do have increased risk if they run them for too long.
We saw this back in 2009 but if you remember we will move back up fairly quickly in that block that deferred maintenance back in.
Oil has been down for a fairly sustained period of time compared to six years ago.
That is exactly what I was alluding to.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Kevin Maczka from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Kevin.
Mark a question on the OEM side as we look out to the back half of the year and into 2016 and I know you are guiding 2016 yet.
But I'm just wondering how concerned we should be about that because as I have understood it Flowserve demand comes somewhat in the middle of in cases of a multi-year construction project.
So things that have been underway maybe are continuing on but at some point we are going to start to burn backlog and maybe new projects just won't be there because we are reading about the additional $200 billion in oil and gas CapEx cuts coming.
So can you just talk about your view and how we should be thinking about the OEM side out into ‘16? Yeah.
As we typically talk about let’s talk about these large projects versus run rate because large projects have been a smaller portion of our overall business.
Here’s probably the way to think about it.
There will always be projects out there almost at any price of the underlying commodity because of aging infrastructure.
There is a whole set of needs around energy independence trying to capture more of the verticals which is what they are doing in the Middle East.
A whole host of things that will drive investment and a lot of that is some of the long-term drivers in our business.
Really there is going to be more demand as you look over the horizon.
So that’s a general backdrop in terms of the way you think about global capacity.
The fact that the multinationals have been rationalizing CapEx now I think we’re into the seventh quarter.
So on more shorter-term what the industry needs to do is see for example an oil and gas a price of a barrel of oil that they can start making investment decisions around.
And what I mean by that is certain investments will occur obviously at a 100 and certain investments will occur at 50.
And what they are looking for at this point in time is to see where it’s going to settle out and start making those investment decisions as you look in terms of really new project opportunities.
So that’s probably way to think about it.
And there is always -- there is a typically a trade-off as oil has gone down.
As the feedstock as natural gas has become more readily available it does bring other investment in another area in the chemical industry and in the combined cycle power industry.
So it isn’t again once size fits all.
But what they need to see and this is why we talk about volatility.
They need to see certainly per barrel of oil particularly on the upstream side.
They are going to need to see some level of stability that they can start making investment decisions around keeping in mind that even if you look at the US upstream production on the fracking which we are not involved in technology has brought a lot of that cost to production down.
So it’s not like the industry stands still.
A long answer to question.
Now on the other OEM as we talked about more of our run rate business that tends to be more stable.
And as Tom mentioned in his comments those are some of the areas particularly in the industrial segment where we think we have a lot of opportunity to grow our business through some of the initiatives that we are driving and that SIHI is a good example of that.
Those are good products that are fairly stable on almost any market and we need to start leveraging those on our platforms and also some of the internal development opportunities.
So that segment for us really represents a good opportunity going forward.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
And then if I can just ask a follow-up on price.
I am just wondering if you can compare and contrast what you saw in the last downturn to what you are seeing now or what you think you will see over the next few quarters because last downturn price was an issue and we were for many quarters shipping low price low margin backlog.
How do you compare and contrast this one? Well in short we’re a completely different company than during the last downturn.
But let me try to lay some things out for you.
Headwinds we are facing relative to the last downturn is the pricing environment and the projects and there were more of them was significantly better in '08.
You can actually take a step back and say there is probably 300 to 400 basis points of margin that doesn’t exist in this cycle that existed in the last cycle as we wound through that backlog because the pricing environment was so strong on these projects if you look at it.
The other thing that represents a headwind and we overcome a lot of those two things is if you look at the currency the dollar in effect relative to where we’re in the last downturn is about 30% stronger which impacts our financials and we have more international business.
For those two things I think relative to the last downturn are representing headwind when you’re looking at compares.
You saw though that we have lived through that lower cost backlog during the period of end of 2010 and 2011.
What’s different is simply put I talked about being the better company.
One example is we’ve reduced our cost of core quality by well over 300 basis points.
Those are permanent changes in our business.
Our aftermarket backlog and capabilities were significantly better.
We have more run rate product more run rate penetration in our business.
We are less relying on this big project.
We also if you look forward relative to last period we have the more opportunity to make some structural cost changes in our business.
Keep in mind when we came out of the last cycle we didn’t have significant amount of low cost manufacturing capacity in this market.
These things are up and running and qualified and represent now an opportunity to migrate long-term some of the capabilities over to these facilities.
So that’s a high level compare.
Honestly this is a very long discussion in terms of what’s different but we are much better positioned.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Deane.
I was hoping to get some more color on two of the initiatives that you called out that sound particularly interesting.
The first is on product bundling.
You all are in a unique position within the flow sector of having important positions both in pumps and valves and seals.
But what we haven't seen a lot in the way of bundling initiatives in the market so what might be new there? And then I've got a follow-up question regarding the capabilities to the QRCs.
Well just one example to allude to without naming specifics is the lot of the multinationals have started seven quarters ago thinking about their cost structure and then doing so turn to suppliers and said help us drive efficiency through the entire supply chain.
And one of the ways that we can do that is to bring all of our product opportunities to the customer work with them ahead of time design specs enter into frame agreements which we have done and in doing that bring our full capabilities to their capacity needs going forward.
So doing that what does is that gives us scale in terms of the relationship scale in terms of our supply base.
It also gives them a benefit as well because they know the products that they are going to get what the expectations are in terms of quality and delivery.
That’s one example that you can do it.
Another one is more traditional is if you look at a project opportunities or whatever maybe typically you had some of our engineered product but we would also bring some of our industrial product for balance of plan.
So that’s typically occurred as well.
And on the QRC what types of capabilities are you looking to add and are there QRCs today that have the enhanced capabilities you are trying to model after or is this new territory? Well I think I have made this point before.
If you look at part of it is your aftermarket capabilities the QRCs being just one of them.
And we are fairly developed in the Gulf Coast region.
What I mean by that is we have QRCs that can support bumps valves and seals in the QRC itself some that support -- may support one or more of those products.
We have field tax service tax a lot of boots on the ground there.
The opportunities we look for other concentrations a processing capacity around the world is to create the same thing in regions in Brazil certain in Malaysia and China as well.
So the QRCs the significance of that is it does provide the ability to respond very quickly relatively to the piece of the equipment and that’s going to correlate to size.
As you can imagine one of these large pumps were not going to have QRCs deployed around the world to handle those because you need cranage and it’s going to take time to move it anyway.
But some of the smaller pieces of equipment you can pull and move fairly quickly to some of these facilities.
So we look at the QRCs relative to what the needs are.
Some of them are sealed QRCs and they are right close to the customer.
Thank you.
And just last question for me would be for Karyn.
And I was hoping she could -- you could share some of your initial thoughts on where you are focusing for starters and then maybe address some opportunities in working capital and cash conversion.
Sure.
So I have been here two months and this is a very successful company that is running extremely well.
There is an existing leadership team that’s seasoned in-depth industry expertise and has weathered these cycles before and then of course Mark brought in a lot of new talent in a lot of different areas.
So it’s a company that I think is very very well positioned.
My focus will be on adding to all the capabilities that are here looking at the efficiencies cost reductions where can we push that in other areas as well as on the growth side of the equation in terms of what markets we want to look at both organically and inorganically.
So that’s where my focus will be.
I worked in many of Flowserve’s end markets from oil refining chemicals plastics.
This is a very customer focused company on-time delivery quality performance culture.
So that the company is doing very well within that regard and my hope is to continue that and add to that.
In terms of working capital I do believe that remains an opportunity for the company.
There is a lot of effort and time and some success in those areas.
Clearly the quarter showed some good progress on adjusted working capital as a percentage of sales.
However with only two months I do need to dig deeper and fully understand the puts and takes related to DSOs and turns and personally conclude where our targets should be going forward and where we can look at that from both receivables inventories and payable perspective.
So that will be an area that we continue to focus on and I will be looking at that in depth.
And our next question comes from Robert Barry from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hi Robert.
I was wondering if you could give a little bit more color on how broadly the pricing pressure is impacting the business.
Is it focused on oil and gas or elsewhere and is it impacting the aftermarket? Not an impact on the aftermarket.
Those tend to be smaller activities fairly stable in terms of the margin profile.
Where you see the most competition is going to be in the oil and gas from some of the larger projects.
And as expected in the Middle East we saw this before and it’s typical in our industry that oil and gas in the Middle East is very very competitive.
Got you okay.
So it’s mostly oil and gas not in some of the other end markets? Got you.
And then could you comment on the performance of the OE book and turn business in the quarter? You mean the book the shorter time to OE.
I mean it was little less than expected so that was part of the reason that we kind of trended that out during the remainder of the year.
We saw quite a bit of a pause for lack of a better term in the first quarter and saw some of that abate during the second quarter but still I think people are looking at the budgets in terms of some of the smaller and upgrade projects.
So we had certainly our share but it was less than we expected going into the year.
Coming out of the first quarter we just needed to start seeing some stability there.
But clearly what I can tell you is what we did see stability within kind of our base aftermarket business the traditional repair work.
What we haven’t seen come back in the aftermarket and even some of the OE upgrades are going to be those upgrades and certainly what we call spares tied to new projects because there isn’t a lot of new project activity.
So those are being in the sense kind of the puts or takes where we also see an opportunity and I mentioned this earlier.
Remember our focus in our industrial segment really for four years has been getting the operating performance to where we needed to be it’s there.
And now what we need to do is grow that business.
So a lot of our initiatives around distribution around e-commerce around how we organize our sales force around the products that we offer and bring into the portfolio like SIHI are driven around that industrial product segment.
We think that really represent a good opportunity for us because if you think across our portfolio the engineered businesses in general the big OE projects are very very subject to market conditions.
But the industrial products you really can with our broad product portfolio penetrate many markets in many type of environments.
I would just add to that.
Well the market wasn’t substantially changed towards the back and the Q1 going into Q2.
I mean we were able to both on the OE and on the aftermarket side sequentially increase those bookings.
And even though some of that maybe seasonal it still was at least a good sign that we did have an increase from Q1 to Q2 in both of those areas.
Got you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joe Ritchie from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And good morning everyone.
Good morning Joe.
So Mark I wanted to touch on those comments that you gave earlier fully recognizing you guys are a different company this cycle than last cycle.
But on the OE side of things things were pretty good last cycle and pricing was good as well.
Just curious on just your OE bookings what kind of magnitude are you looking at in terms of potential pricing declines in that business today? Well relative to the last period when we came to the last cycle is that your question? I think more generally just when I think about this cycle versus last cycle it seems like capacity isn't as tight leading into this downturn.
And so I'm just curious on the pricing concessions that you are having to give on the OE side.
I am just curious how those conversations are going and what kind of magnitude are we looking at? It’s definitely become more competitive but I can tell you the pricing change is not nearly as drastic as it was during the last cycle.
So we’ve never really said it’s been a strong pricing environment over the last couple of years.
So the peak to trough type we’re not through necessarily the cycle so I don’t want to call it trough.
But the movement in the pricing is not nearly as dramatic.
And I’ve talked about this before but in the last cycle keep in mind on some of these big projects we’ll buy up to 50% from other suppliers.
You really can’t command much margin in most environments.
Back then you could get 20% 25% margin on those and 40% 50% margins on the equipment that you manufacture.
It was a really really good environment.
So as you look this versus last the backlog that we -- in the last year with is very good executable it doesn’t have the price and we start to realize that I mean that's why we’re pleased with our margins that we've seen over the first part of this year.
It certainly doesn't have the margin in the big projects that we saw last time but the movement in price from peak to trough is not even close to what it was last time.
Okay.
So that’s helpful.
And you brought up the margin point good execution on the quarter and it’s nice to see the restructuring actions are coming through.
I guess I'm just trying to understand just a little bit more clarity on the payback on that restructuring.
I know that you talked about $70 million in benefits but it’s unclear to me at this point how much of the $70 million do you expect to come through this year as opposed to the actions really kind of benefiting you guys in '16? Well I mean if you look at the way we even started to accrue we had 25.
I mean these are structural changes in mature markets particularly in Europe to take time to execute setting up the accrual one is one thing realizing the benefit does take time.
And a lot of companies avoid doing this because it takes so much time in terms of the payback.
We think this is a great time to do it.
So really very little of the benefits we expect to come through this year.
I mean we’ll try to pull as many as we came forward but I think this isn’t an important point.
This is real structural strategic change in our business.
So we do have some component of it that is responsive to the market but most of this is permanent.
And we’re continuing to look for opportunities.
We want these things to be sustainable.
And if you think about it moving work moving capabilities to low-cost is really the way to play for the future.
But I would expect very little of these benefits to come through in this year.
We’ll try to drive in as much as we can but most of it is going to be next year these things take time.
Okay.
So there is very little in that guidance number that you gave for this year? Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Nathan.
So Mark just following up on some of the comments you talked about 300 to 400 basis points of margin higher in 2008 than you’re starting from now in terms of price less relying on large projects where the pricing pressure is the most intense? You’ve got more structural opportunities to take cost out.
It sounds like -- and correct me if I'm wrong that it’s a reasonable expectation for investors to think that you are not going to see the same margin compression in this cycle that you did in the last cycle is that reasonable? Well you leave me right in the margin guidance which we don't give.
But I think it's tough to -- what I was trying to do is illustrate that there are things you can compare to the last cycle and it's important to do.
But underlying this is a fundamentally different company.
So what I don’t want folks to do is just try to take the math from last period and roll it forward there too many things that are different as you look over on our business.
A lot of that margin profile as we look forward are going to be the things we talked about Nathan.
Obviously topline from a currency impact standpoint and just an activity standpoint even on projects is going to have a detrimental impact on margins.
To the flipside is cost optimization over a period of time is going to drive all of things being equal margin improvement also as we start to scale the acquisition that we made that should drive that as well.
So there are mix in terms of aftermarkets.
So it's better as opposed to just try to do a linear math from last period of time to just step back and say on a relative basis what are they doing to drive margins and what are the headwinds.
And I think I’ve tried to align those out for you.
But the timing of that and the duration of those things are going to -- they are going to impact margins and that's why we don't want to necessarily start guiding to margins but it is a better company.
Okay.
I also understand that a lot of the structural realignment that you're doing is in Europe which takes more time.
Is there anyway you can give us any idea of what of the $70 million you expect to recognize next year and what if it will be incremental in ’17? I think by the time we get to the back half of next year we should be pretty close on a run rate to those savings Nathan.
And so what I don’t want to do is give you a full year number calendar January 1 to December 31 because the timing of that can impact the amount it’s really when we’re going to start seeing the run rate on it it will be in the back half of next year.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
On the inorganic side you talk there about private sellers starting to adjust some of their expectation.
It sounds like maybe there is a few more opportunities out there that meet your criteria.
And I know previously you’ve talked about not being interested in large multiyear integrations and you seem to be more willing to do those now.
How many kind of SIHI sized deals would you be willing to be integrating at one time? It well I mean that’s a good question.
We did like a lot of the SIHI type of opportunities and then we’ll find a way to integrate them to be honest with you.
But the fact is they come when they come.
I think as we look at our -- as our priorities the platform is much better.
And you can -- as the opportunity come you can evaluate it against what your options are.
You can do an integration like right.
If it represents a really good opportunity you can maybe time the integration over a longer period of time and just make sure your returns from a shareholder perspective justify that.
So there are things we can look at.
But I think we’re going to look at each of these opportunistically in terms of returns to the shareholder and position this long-term.
And again going back to earlier things like SIHI are very valuable to us because they're in an area where we think we have some of the greatest opportunity our industrial segment.
These tend to be less volatile and market upturns and down.
It leverages our sales platform sales organization our aftermarket capabilities as well and ultimately we can also start to leverage some of our low cost manufacturing capacity.
So we hope to see a lot of these.
The fact is Nathan when you look at these opportunities you have to take a step back and say what are my competing priorities in terms of integration? What’s the pricing environment out there? What is this opportunity represent to us long-term and then you just make trade-offs.
Obviously if a compelling asset came that we could get at a good price we may differ integration for period of time and just take it on our platform.
And our next question comers from William Bremer from the Maxim Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Mark Tom and welcome Karen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Karen look forward to seeing your initiatives on the DSO that’s first and foremost I would like to start seeing that come through.
I guess my first question is really based on SIHI and we touched upon it it is on track.
Can you give us a sense of what type of restructuring possibly is needed there? And then secondly with the QRCs I believe SIHI pretty much added about ‘15 we are up to about 190 but yet the Q sort of articulated that an earlier some possible combining based upon certain regions just want you to get a little more granular on those if you can? Well I mean example around combining them is if you look in the North Sea region we had a couple QRCs that were supporting the North Sea activity.
And some of these facilities we've been in a long period of time and actually they were -- we acquired them and they were designed for completely different use.
I think one of them actually use to manufacture telescopes.
So what we did is we took a couple of these and built a more of a state-of-the-art facility right there on the coast in Aberdeen to support it.
So those are the things that we’re thinking about where we can take some of these facilities combine them also combined them for pump valve and seal capabilities to respond to the customers.
The idea is and I always try to tell folks don't think of these as retail locations like a fast food location that you -- the more you add the more you grow.
It's really -- these things are going to be designed to whatever our customers need in the business.
Great.
Good point.
That’s all I have got.
And our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Most of my questions have been asked maybe just one more on SIHI.
So you are saying the integration is going as you expected.
Can you just talk about the topline performance is that in line with how you anticipated it it would grow or generate this year and what’s the outlook? Yeah.
I mean coming into the year it is as expected I mean when we looked at this asset over last year I mean the markets were different.
Hasn’t moved too much from the original expectations but certainly as we gave guidance this year it's pretty much in line with expectations.
Matter of fact I think in the first quarter we're little ahead and this quarter we're a little behind.
Got it.
And just secondly just with receivables so you have been talking in the Qs about just having trouble collecting down in Latin America it has been a while now.
I mean at what point do you have to consider start taking reserves against that? I mean we always evaluate that we've seen some progress in the region in this quarter and in third quarter but that is something we always evaluate in communication with our customers and the like so.
But that is something front of mind we always evaluate in terms when we look at.
I will leave it there.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from David Rose from Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my call.
Welcome.
First nice job on executing in the quarter.
I think most of us were pretty pleased given the environment.
So I had two questions if you may.
On the outlook for next year I know you don't want to go into it but I think as we start to look into next year and given where the bookings are in nominal terms you got a pretty big step down.
So what do you need to do in terms of cost takeout or conversely at least on the top line in order for you to get to operating numbers that are essentially flat year-over-year? I mean you have got a lot to make up for so help us kind of think about things that would help you.
Well we talked about the unknowns.
And the unknowns are going to be the large project activity what happened with the underlying commodities and certainly currency going into that period of time.
We can control those but let's spend little time on what we can control.
What we talked about are some of our structural restructuring activities and we can continue to look at some of those well to drive value.
These things will take time.
We actually have a multiyear plan.
We started to accelerate it.
We can accelerate more.
I mean the other things that we talked about are looking within our portfolio or capabilities and what can we do to improve topline capabilities.
I’ve alluded to one a number times on the call around our industrial product segment.
It’s not only integrating the acquisition that we've made but there is other opportunities in terms of how we optimize our channels to market taking advantage of that.
Obviously growing our aftermarket business something we talked about last time.
So what we are going to do in R&amp;D product development these are all things that we are turning increase focus to not that it wasn’t important before.
Just keep in mind our priority over the last three years has been around improving execution.
And you've seen that in our results.
In terms of the margins looking forward over time and effort and investments is going to be in relative market share capturing that as well.
So the big thing around next year is just the unknown is what’s going to happen to our industry during the back half of the year.
Do you think all else being equal if you can maintain the bookings where they are today and again I don't want to get into guidance -- I do but I know you won't go there? But you've got a $400 million deficit in bookings.
Do you think you can pull it off? Do you have enough levers at your disposal? You've got SG&amp;A.
The restructuring is really back end waited for next year so? You are going into calendar year versus beyond.
As I said I think we have -- we've already started to execute.
We have substantial opportunity on the structural changes.
So there's a quite a bit there for us and there are other levers we can pull.
But again we still do depend on project activity in our business.
It’s been less of our business over the last couple years and it’s just tough to call.
But the things within our control we can surely add value.
And I don't want to give guidance in the next year but what I don't want to say is look if you take a step back and if we were operating completely efficiently as we could which we’re not.
And we were fully penetrated in our markets.
We wouldn't have any levers to pull at all and I would be saying to you is we’re subject to whatever the market tells us we can do.
The fact is we probably have as much or more on things that we can do versus what the market can do to us.
The question is we need to get after them and we are and those things take time.
And a lot of that is as Karyn alluded to is some of the leadership that we brought on to help us drive through that.
So it's timing dependent but long-term the way we look at our business is we do think there's going to be demand in our industries long-term.
I view what’s occurring in oil and gas right now is more on the supply side.
You’ve got Iran with 40 million barrel sitting in storage ready to go to the market the increased production there Iraq is coming up to speed.
There is a lot of things that are occurring but you also have depleting rates increasing in the parts of the United States to offset some of that.
So that will work itself out over the period of time.
Investment will find the right opportunity and the right price to bring it back on line.
Also keep in mind whereas we were having this discussion a year ago and everybody’s saying why aren’t you more upstream the fact is midstream and downstream does not go away in tough markets.
They may rationalize some of the new project activities but it is still operating and there is still need for this type of infrastructure.
So I’d just ask we take a step back.
Let’s take a long-term view because some of the things we're doing to fundamentally change our manufacturing capabilities around the world will take time but they have very good paybacks to them.
And the next question comes from Joe Giordano from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for running a little bit long to fit everyone in here appreciate it.
Just had a question on -- in the downturn here is there an opportunity maybe to look at the entire portfolio of products and streamline some of the lower margin lower margin products to lever up on a recovery here? In an upturn or in a downturn we should be doing that.
You’ve seen some of the actions we’ve taken over the last couple years and we do.
As we take a step back we will get our products and really primarily look for strategic fit.
Can we scale cross our sales organization is our aftermarket capabilities? And if they don't make the fit then we assume as you’ve seen with some of the divestitures that we made that they are more valuable in another people's hands and so we want to monetize that.
Flipside on the M&amp;A and we haven’t talked a lot about that but one other things versus where we were four years ago is we do have a better platform to integrate M&amp;A.
So we are going to look both on -- primarily on the acquisition side but we always look on the divestiture side and say is there something we have to stop doing or sell to somebody else? Great.
And then just lastly I wanted to touch on valves quickly and all things considered that was a very impressive performance in that segment.
And based on what we are seeing in other people reporting it looks like potentially gaining some share so can you talk about how you are executing there and what specifically if anything you can call out there? They’ve been executing at the high level for quite a period of time.
And I think one of the advantages that they have relative to our internal portfolio is that well developed channel of the market both in terms of distribution and some of the other channels as well.
So they are further along and that's why I talk about the opportunity in the industrial segment because there is a tremendous amount of similarities.
But I think what you’ve seen is a whole host of things.
We talk about lead product secondary product and if you remember that strategy is to have confident capabilities often times in some of our mature markets but start to lever some of the work in low cost manufacturing parts around the world.
They probably have one of the more successful examples of that.
It is five years into it so these things do take time that drives great margins in their control valve business.
So there is a good playbook there that we’re using for other businesses particularly we are going to start using it on the industrial product side and that’s the example that you’ve seen.
And you’ve seen good growth in the oil &amp; gas business.
Five years ago it was predominantly chemical.
We made a strategic move through Valbart into the oil &amp; gas products.
They’ve been able to scale that and lever that into the other products that they manufacture.
And then one question that came earlier this concept around bringing our full portfolio to customers.
They’ve certainly benefited from some of the rotating equipment relationships that we’ve had.
Great.
Thanks so much for the color.
And we are showing no further question.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
And good morning everyone.
We appreciate you participating in Flowserve's 2015 third quarter earnings call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Tom Pajonas Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Karyn Ovelmen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open this call up to your questions.
And as a reminder this event is being webcast and an audio replay will be available.
Additionally please be aware our earnings materials do in this call will include certain non-GAAP measures.
Please review the reconciliation of our adjusted metrics to our reported results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles which can be found both in our press release and our earnings presentation.
Please also note that this call and our associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements which are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of October 30 2015.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including many that are beyond the company's control.
And except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's third quarter materials as well as our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are all available on our website at flowserve.com in the Investor Relations' section.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay.
And good morning everyone.
During the third quarter Flowserve delivered solid operating performance.
This came in the midst of the persistent macroeconomic and industry-wide challenges we've faced all year.
The continued weakness in many of our end markets has substantially impacted the timing of customer spending across the industry.
As a result there is increased uncertainty in the marketplace and a tighter pricing environment on the projects that do proceed.
Further most emerging regions particularly Latin America remained stagnant.
And with our global revenue base the stronger U.S.
dollar continues to weigh on reported earnings.
Given this uncertainty we're taking aggressive action to reduce our cost structure and offset near-term market weakness.
But more broadly this current market downturn also provides us the opportunity to accelerate efforts to drive permanent efficiency improvements across our business to better position closer for the long term.
Against this backdrop Flowserve continues to perform well operationally.
Our employees remain focused on serving our customers with excellence.
This dedication is evidenced by solid execution on our existing backlog and our ability to deliver on our commitments the way our customers expect.
While opportunity always remains to improve on-time delivery I am pleased with our consistent 90% plus on-time delivery performance our approximate 5% in past-due backlog and our operational performance.
Simply put the Flowserve operating platform continues to operate at a high level.
For example our aftermarket franchise demonstrated the relative resiliency that we expect despite continued maintenance deferrals in some of our markets and lower parts and spares activity tied to new units.
Organic aftermarket bookings and sales were only down modestly constant currency.
We expect much of our customers' delayed and deferred activity to return as maintenance budgets stabilize.
As we have demonstrated over the years we will continue to enhance our aftermarket capabilities through the cycle to increase our installed base capture and market share.
Given the cyclical nature of our markets we remain focused on controlling what we can.
Disciplined cost control is embedded in our culture as is our strategic approach to optimize our business and simplify the organization.
We have made significant progress on our previously-announced cost efficiency efforts.
And we are pleased that the expected return from our previously-announced $100 million realignment investment has increased.
We're also pursuing at least $25 million of additional investment to further improve our platform.
Together we now expect these actions to generate approximately $125 million of annual structural cost savings for the one-time cost of approximately $125 million.
Karyn will cover more on the timing of our restructuring actions as well as our third quarter financial results.
But I'll note that I was pleased with the resilient margin performance this quarter even in a declining revenue environment.
When we look back at the second quarter crude oil had seemingly found a home during that period in the $55 per barrel to $60 per barrel range.
As you're aware however after July 4 and continuing through much of the quarter crude prices suffered another round of declines even falling below $40 per barrel in late August.
This volatility increased uncertainty further within our industry.
In turn this impacted both the timing of bookings and customers' willingness to accept shipments.
This climate is reflected when reviewing our regional markets.
Looking at our geographies excluding SIHI and on a constant currency basis for consistency bookings were down in all regions with the exception of Asia-Pacific which was up modestly.
North America represented the largest bookings decline in dollar terms versus a tough 2014 compare period.
Last year oil and gas activity was strong in our mid and downstream markets and chemical orders were enhanced by the new cracker facilities in the region.
In this region's current market we see increased opportunities in the power industry and are beginning to work on a number of chemical feed projects.
For the second consecutive quarter European bookings declined approximately 18.5% this period while the regions revenue increased representing the only geography that grew year-over-year sales this quarter.
Russia continues to struggle with the current oil price levels and the general European recovery has proven slow and the economy remains fragile.
Asia-Pacific went the other direction as it increased bookings year-over-year but also saw the largest revenue decline on a percentage basis this quarter.
The slowing economy in China is certainly having an impact on the region although power opportunities remain.
Our opportunity in the region remains increasing our presence and building our installed base.
And Latin American bookings were by far the most impacted on a percentage basis down nearly 30% year-over-year.
This resulted from challenges faced by certain customers in the oil-driven economies of Brazil and Venezuela.
We expect the petro economies to remain challenged while oil prices are this depressed.
But we do see pockets of opportunity in some countries in the region such as Mexico and Argentina.
While bookings during the quarter were down in the Middle East we do see near-term prospects in the region as many of our clients here are investing through the cycle particularly in Kingdom Qatar and Kuwait.
Some of the opportunities on the horizon include refining projects as well as power and desal plants.
While the current business environment remains uncertain and near-term visibility is limited we do continue to believe that the long-term secular growth trends in all our end-markets remain very much intact based on end-user demand.
Infrastructure in developed regions require service for replacement activities and emerging markets need to build more.
The Flowserve platform is operating well and we have opportunities to enhance it.
Current delays and deferrals will create a recovery cycle in the future.
We are positioning the company now for long-term growth and we have the experience navigating difficult markets.
And as evidenced by our current initiatives cost control is embedded in our culture.
This culture is coupled with our highly disciplined approach to capital allocation.
Flowserve has been a consistent cash generator even in periods of cyclical slowdowns.
We are committed to maintaining flexibility through the cycle which enables us to pursue organic and acquisitive growth pursue realignment and restructuring initiatives and return capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
I'm confident that the internal actions we implemented since the last down cycle combined with our current efforts and our proven operational performance will position Flowserve well for both the current market and for when markets recover.
Flowserve is a leader in our industry and our commitment remains to deliver long-term value for our customers and shareholders.
Let me now turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark.
And good morning everyone.
I'm also pleased that we are expecting to generate a stronger return on our original investment dollars than originally expected on our cost efficiency measures.
As part of this effort we are driving towards reducing our manufacturing cost base and achieving higher absorption within our facilities.
Our overall plan should position Flowserve to better serve our customers and will include product transfers facility closures and certain head count reductions.
In addition the integration of SIHI is also progressing well including facility rationalization and transfer some of Flowserve's activities into SIHI sites.
SIHI's bookings for the year have held up well as the run rate nature of much of its business help ensure only a mid single-digit year-over-year decline in constant currency bookings.
While executing our SIHI's integration and the strategic realignment actions across Flowserve our employees have remained motivated and focused on the customer.
Turning to our end markets there are many challenges currently across our diverse geographical and industry exposures but opportunities exist as well as evidenced by $1.06 billion of bookings including SIHI.
To break it down oil and gas represents roughly 34% with chemical at 25% power at 14% and general industries at roughly 23%.
We have seen significant year-over-year declines in our project bookings as we continue to expect customers will remain deliberate and lengthen the bidding process and the time span before reaching the final investment decision.
Additionally project pricing levels have intensified.
While we have remained disciplined we expect part of our planned cost savings will help reduce the effect of lower market activity and the impact on margin.
We also continue to actively pursue enterprise frame agreements product bundling opportunities and value-creating initiatives such as reliability models with our customers in order to drive bookings.
Looking at our served industries.
In the oil and gas the market remains challenged.
European and Latin America oil and gas markets face headwinds that are not expected to cease in the near term.
We also see maintenance deferrals occurring as refiners continue to operate at high levels.
However some opportunities exist in this challenged market.
There are pockets of oil and gas proposal activity such as the Middle East and selected Asian regions and refineries in Malaysia and refining in Saudi Arabia.
North America LNG plants midstream oil and gas and oil storage however represent opportunities.
In Mexico its liberalization of the oil industry should also be positive in the future.
The ongoing activity for LNG export out of the U.S.
is another example of a new developing market where we participate.
Chemical bookings were roughly flat in the third quarter on an organic constant currency basis.
And we continue to see opportunities on the horizon from the derivative chemical facilities related to the first wave of ethylene crackers in North America.
Additionally we also expect to see the second wave of ethylene crackers in the future based upon recent E&amp;C awards with the process potentially starting sometime next year.
Power bookings were up 2% in the third quarter on an organic constant currency basis where we see combined cycle power activity moving forward particularly in North America Asia-Pacific and Eastern Europe.
With increased environmental regulation and the related closure of coal-powered facilities this trend towards combined cycle should continue to drive opportunity for us.
And we also expect increased activity related to environmental-driven upgrades on the coal capacity that remains.
Flowserve is also active in most nuclear markets.
China continues to pursue ambitious nuclear capacity goals where we regularly participate.
And Japan has restarted some of its idle nuclear plants which provides us opportunity for maintenance and upgrade activity.
Finally desalination markets have improved recently and concentrated solar power projects are emerging in Africa and North America.
We have escalated our focus on new product development over the last several months in areas such as materials and coatings multiphase flow fugitive emission and growing areas of diagnostics and its impact on reliability.
These initiatives have resulted in new wireless control valves water pumps with improved efficiency designed to reduce the total cost of ownership and cryogenic valve applications to name a few.
In summary although we expect a tough market for the near term we have built a solid base a rigorous plan and the ability to pursue opportunities where they exist.
With that overview let me now turn it over to Karyn.
Thank you Tom.
And good morning everyone.
Let me now focus the call on our financial highlights from the 2015 third quarter and our near-term outlook.
As Mark and Tom indicated the challenging market conditions from the first half of the year continued in the third quarter.
Accordingly during the third quarter our constant currency bookings declined 14.6% year-over-year excluding SIHI's contribution of $70 million.
Original equipment orders were primarily affected considering our $460 million of organic aftermarket bookings were down only 2% constant currency which demonstrates the type of resiliency we typically expect from this franchise especially considering some of the ongoing delays in maintenance activity.
Total third quarter sales were $1.1 billion which included $74 million from SIHI.
Excluding SIHI sales were down 5.6% constant currency compared to last year.
Again our aftermarket business held up better as sales declined only 2.3% on an organic constant currency basis in the third quarter.
Year-to-date Flowserve's constant currency revenues increased 2.8% through September 30 compared to 2014 levels.
Looking at our margins strong execution aftermarket mix and cost control delivered adjusted gross and operating margin increases of 110 basis points and 50 basis points respectively compared to the 2014 third quarter.
We continue to focus on effectively managing SG&amp;A with expenses down $27.9 million in the third quarter excluding SIHI and realignment.
As we position our business for current market conditions our SG&amp;A reduction reflected tight cost control and benefited from a strong dollar and reduced incentive compensation to reflect our alignment with shareholders.
Our third quarter adjusted tax rate of approximately 28.8% was slightly lower than our full-year guidance rate of 30% to 31%.
On a reported basis tax appears elevated at 35.5% as a result of one-off non-cash valuation allowance we took on certain deferred tax assets reflecting ongoing challenges in Latin America.
Third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.81 includes $0.06 per share of negative currency translation and $0.03 of bad debt write-off due primarily to a customer's bankruptcy and excludes $0.11 per share of adjusted items comprised of $0.02 of below the line currency impact $0.01 of realignment expenses and $0.08 for the non-cash valuation allowance on the Latin American deferred tax asset.
SIHI was essentially breakeven during the 2015 third quarter even after incurring over $6 million of purchase price accounting realignment and acquisition-related expenses.
Altogether reported EPS was $0.70 for the quarter.
Turning to cash flows.
Flowserve generated total operating cash flow of $113 million in the 2015 third quarter or approximately $0.85 per share.
We continue to invest in organic growth with $25 million in capital expenditures during the period.
Similar to prior cycles with slower end market activity we will continue to make disciplined investments in our business to support long-term growth.
We still expect capital expenditures in the $170 million to $180 million range for 2015 substantially higher than our maintenance CapEx requirements primarily due to planned investment on the new Chinese valve facility which will increase our low cost manufacturing capabilities as well as the purchase of a long-term license which will provide good opportunities to increase our aftermarket business.
Returning capital to shareholders was another key priority during the quarter as we repurchased approximately 2.4 million Flowserve shares which is almost equivalent to the number of shares we purchased in the first half of the year.
During the first nine months of 2015 we returned nearly $320 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Approximately $215 million remains available under our current share repurchase plan authorization at third quarter-end.
Primary working capital as a percentage of our trailing 12-month sales improved slightly year-over-year to 27.1% versus 29.1% a year ago excluding SIHI's impact.
As a result of declining sales as well as high levels of receivables from certain Latin American customers our days sales outstanding increased year-over-year by two days to 86 days.
Inventory turns were 2.5 times versus 2.8 times last year.
Flowserve's balance sheet is well-positioned for the current market environment.
Our trailing 12 month net debt-to-EBITDA at September 30 was at 2 times and 2.2 times on a gross basis.
Shortly after quarter end we completed the second amendment to our senior credit facility which provides committed liquidity now through October 2020 and at a lower annual cost.
Turning to our outlook for the remainder of the year.
We are planning for current market conditions to persist with heightened uncertainty and reduced visibility into customer spending and order acceptance.
Based on that expectation and our results year-to-date we anticipate 2015 full year adjusted EPS at or around the lower end of our previous guidance of $3.10 to $3.40 with revenues to be on the lower side of our previous guidance of down 10% to 15% range.
The stronger U.S.
dollar that we've experienced throughout 2015 continues to present a significant headwind both to reported revenues and our earnings per share.
As a reminder our guidance excludes both SIHI's revenues and it's expected $0.25 per share net dilution for the year.
Our adjusted EPS range also excludes the expenses associated with our realignment efforts and below-the-line currency impacts as well as other specific one-time events such as the first quarter's Venezuela remeasurement and this quarter's valuation allowance.
Regarding our realignment activities behind SIHI that Mark mentioned we now expect to spend approximately $125 million during 2015 and early 2016.
This should generate approximately $125 million in annual cost savings which will reach the annual run rate level by late 2016.
From a cash perspective we expect outflows of approximately $30 million in 2015 and $85 million in 2016 and the rest thereafter.
With that let me turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Karyn.
Operator we have now concluded our prepared remarks.
We would like to begin the question-and-answer period.
Thank you.
And our first question is from Chase Jacobson of William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So Mark I was wondering if you could comment on the pace of the backlog burn.
Obviously I think it's pretty clear the short-cycle work has been under pressure.
But I'd like to kind of get a better understanding of how the projects that are in backlog are progressing relative to expectations.
I know you mentioned that things are slower and some customers are pushing out shipments.
I mean this is kind of a normal even in a normal market environment but how much worse is it now than it was maybe a year just on average? Okay.
Well I mean in terms of your general comment around backlog burn if you look at year-to-date our book-to-bill has been relatively flat at 1 which is certainly different from what we saw in the last downturn where you typically see a book-to-bill well below 1.
So – and what's causing a lot of that as to your point is some of these projects – well first of all we're not the gating item or the bottleneck as we've been a number of years ago.
But the fact is as these projects are ongoing but they're not running at a quick pace.
And so customers don't have the incentive to really take the product.
They certainly don't want to store it on site because the product can tend to deteriorate things can happen to it ultimately.
So we have seen that stretch out really during the course of this year.
Not atypical when you see a downturn in the industry because these projects are ongoing but the pace of them slow.
Because if you think about it a project predicting a process is like getting a bond in place and you generate the cash flows from the processing of the refined or the refining product.
So they just don't seem too anxious to get these things online.
We've seen that persist.
We expect that will continue to persist some through the rest of the year.
Okay.
And then on pricing you mentioned a tough pricing.
We've heard a number of different numbers from some of your peers as much as 10% to 15%.
Can you give anymore color on what you're seeing in pricing and is it contained to the original equipment or is it also filling into aftermarket? Thank you.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's primarily on the projects.
And we – again we saw this just for everybody to benefit because I think people are trying to understand how we're going to maneuver through this cycle versus the last time.
Keep in mind in the last cycle when we came out pricing was very robust.
It never really got near those levels during this last period this last run but the fact is the first thing – area where you see a lot of competition because this is around absorption of factories these are big projects these are the elephants that the sales organization likes to hunt.
You do see a lot of price competition in that area and we've seen that along the projects not as dramatic as last time but that's where you tend to see the pricing pressure on a lot of the – you do see some pricing on the run rate business.
But keep in mind a lot of that is around being able to respond quickly.
There are smaller dollar items overall and the aftermarket pricing has remained relatively stable.
Okay.
So do you think the 10% to 15% pricing pressure is too much or...
I mean that's certainly something you would see on some of these big projects.
I mean if you remember when we discussed project activity back in 2011 particularly in the Middle East we'd see pricing when you go to final bid it get dropped 20% or 25% from where the bid levels were before.
That's not unusual particularly in the Middle East.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Robert Barry of Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Robert.
I just wondered if you could offer a little more color on how you think we should interpret the better aftermarket bookings this quarter.
I don't know if you're seeing some deferred maintenance resuming for example or if things just happen to trend a little bit better this quarter? Here is a simple way to look at it.
Year-over-year parts tied to units is down.
They are deferring a lot of what I would say are upgrade opportunities they are like small capital projects around driving efficiency.
There is some maintenance deferral.
The offset has been continued execution on our end user strategies.
So over the years a lot of the growth you've seen is just further penetration into existing customers new customers putting in new QRCs taking advantage of the installed base.
So the market has certainly put a headwind to us.
It's been mostly not completely offset by execution of our end user strategies.
Got you.
And then I had a question on the new cost reduction efforts.
How much of these $125 million in cost reduction efforts is assumed in your guidance this year? And then just how does the cadence how much comes next year versus say 2017? Thank you.
Yeah there is a little in the numbers this year we talked about.
Now we did see one of our divisions to get a good early execution in the third quarter FCD.
So we saw a little bit of a benefit there but the bulk of this will come in a run rate basis next year.
And as Karyn talked about we expect it to be in full run rate towards the end of next year.
Also to my earlier commentary I think I talked about two-thirds was what I'd say structural and in our view is sustainable through cycles and a third was market reaction.
Most of the incremental is more structural.
So we have responded to volumes and not that there is still – not a little additional volume response we can do.
But now what we're starting to do is focus on really bringing in systemic change in terms of the structure reducing complexity.
As Tom and I talked – as Tom talked about that will also go into our plant rationalization product optimization.
So there's a lot of things that we're working on and that we will continue to work on.
The incremental is really are moving towards that direction.
Got you.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You talked about the chemical fees including some of the next round via North American crackers.
How would you think that next round of plants be different for you than what you've experienced in the first round? If at all just in terms of scope and overall magnitude of impact? Yeah.
I will look at the scope as being very very similar and the magnitude not much not much different and obviously we're talking about some time in 2016 and possibly even 2017 beginning of 2017 for those next rounds.
And remember there is two pieces.
One is the new crackers themselves and then the second piece is the derivatives of the existing crackers that have now been built and now they're adding on additional chemical facilities to those.
So those are the two pieces.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And Tom you just talked a little bit – or you mentioned the reliability models.
Can you just talk a little bit more about that and how big those might be and when we could start seeing some impact there? Yeah.
I mean that's a – I would say a fundamental change in the business model that we think long-term is going to occur over time and that's where people get more of a driver on availability and reliability as opposed to just the cost.
So it factors in the total lifecycle of the product.
We've gotten some good traction in our frame agreements in those areas and we're seeing a lot of customers begin to get more interested in that model and we have the set up to be able to do that in terms of the QRCs and the processes to bring that model to them.
I mean is this expected to potentially be a swing factor for sales in 2016 or is it more longer term than that? No I would say it's a gradual ferreting of that sales over time with more and more customers moving toward that model I would say over the long-term.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Joe.
So Mark my first question look you guys had really good gross margin expansion especially in two of your segments this quarter and no incentive comp played some of the role there.
But how are you guys thinking about your ability to hold gross margins as we kind of enter 2016 just given the backdrop that you mentioned with OE pricing being down? That's I mean the pricing is going to put pressure on it.
We – unlike the last cycle these projects are not a big part of our – certainly the backlog in the revenue like they were then.
But there's no question the pricing environment is going to put pressure on the gross margins.
Now on the flipside we are looking at things like aftermarket mix and the business and then quite a bit of the realignment improvement efforts that are ongoing in the business.
There's a list of things not – within the $125 million and then other things we're working on as well.
So in general though you should expect that the pricing environment will definitely put pressure and a lot of our efforts are designed not only to respond to current market conditions but we're trying to look longer term over the next couple of years at the margin profile of this business and drive even improvement off of where we were at peak levels.
Okay.
And then maybe as you're kind of thinking about the restructuring efforts how are you guys thinking about what portion of it is going to come through COGS versus SG&amp;A? I know you gave us a two-third structural versus one-third market related.
But I'm just curious it seems clearly a lot of the restructuring benefits this quarter that we saw in FCD were coming through the SG&amp;A line? Yeah it's roughly about 60-40.
And then I think as we look at additional opportunities it's going to tend more to the cost of sales because that's when we start rationalizing the facilities as well.
But traditionally it's run in that 60% cost of sales 40% SG&amp;A and that's what we're expecting as we're going forward.
As Mark indicated the change that we had from the $100 million spend for the $70 million benefit.
The change there is really due to the mix of the projects.
So the original plan had a higher mix of closures.
And the updated plan that we have has more head count reductions.
So the head count reductions have that ratio of 1 to 1.3 of savings so about $85 million of that $125 million spend or about $110 million of the run rate savings.
And now that we've got an additional 5% head count reduction in the $125 million for $125 million two-thirds of that spend now is head count reduction.
And the closures have a ratio more of a 2.4 to 1.
So about $40 million of the spend will be for about $15 million in savings.
And then just to follow-up on your question there with regards to compensation looking at that from a comparative perspective just to give you some information with regards to being able to model that a little bit better.
Q3 and year-to-date actual if you look at just overall annual compensation the impact would be about 100 basis points on Q3 and year-to-date through September.
And then from a segment perspective it's slightly larger in EPD lower in FCD and then of course much lower in IPD.
That's helpful color.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jonny Wright of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Ltd.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Ltd.</span></strong> Just looking to dig in maybe a little bit on the flow control side actually the margin performance there is very strong.
Can you maybe just kind of parse out the drivers behind that and where you're looking at that into 4Q and into 2016? Yeah.
So if you look across our segments you can see the margins were – in EPD were certainly impacted by declining revenues and less fixed cost absorption across the SG&amp;A line.
It did have – about 90 basis points of that bad debt expense is in the number there as well.
But as you kind of work across that a lot of that is going to be where you see the project activity and the revenue decline and it's difficult to adjust the SG&amp;A as quickly in that business held up a bit by the strong aftermarket component.
If you go across IPD that's on the tail end of what I would say is our operational improvement in the business that you saw driving margins there.
You also including SIHI saw if you take out the purchase price accounting some gross margin accretion and that's because the SIHI gross margins were higher and we're starting to leverage that as well.
The real opportunity in our industrial segment right now is on the commercial side is taking the platform we have and we've got a significant opportunity to improve the way that business goes to market.
In the valve division the simple message is they had a good quarter.
It's been a very consistent performer very very efficient.
It had good power shipments this quarter as well.
So its foundation is very very strong and it's able to execute on the strong MRO opportunities good power shipping during the quarter.
And then in the aggregate as you look across the company just cost control across the corporate expense.
So that's basically what you see in our margin profile.
Ltd.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I guess looking forward into 2016 then you guys have talked about the incremental increase in the restructuring spend.
As you sit there today is the current kind of plan looking to hold margins flat or do you think margins can potentially offset the sales decline next year? What's sort of the base case sitting there in a volatile market? Well the end of your statement is just that it's a volatile market.
I mean what we're trying to do is not only respond to the markets but improve the operating platform long term.
So as you look forward a couple of things.
As I mentioned earlier relative to last cycles while we see price declines in projects they're not going to be as dramatic as they were in 2008 to 2009 because we had a very strong pricing environment.
So that should indicate less of an impact relative to prior cycles.
But as you look at our business overall we have more aftermarket business than we did before and our run rate business is growing as well.
But the fact is these are volatile markets.
You don't know where your top line necessarily is going to come in with these push-outs and with the order activity and that will tend to impact fixed cost leverage.
So as you think through our business next year a lot of it is going to depend on – the way I look at it is going to be the volume activity that we see.
That's why I pointed you earlier to the fact that right now we have a book-to-bill of 1 and we saw significantly less during the – this period of time than the last cycle but we'll have to see how that continues to flush out over the next couple of quarters.
Ltd.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for your time guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Deane Dray of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
I'd like to follow up on Joe's question and particularly Karyn's answer regarding the impact of the change in incentive compensation.
So was it 100 basis points so that should flow through to the fourth quarter as well but not necessarily into 2016? Is that correct? Well I mean as you said it's all the way it's aligned to shareholders.
So these aren't necessarily one-time items.
We set up our compensation plans that really correlate to our commitments to our shareholders particularly around our guidance.
So as we set that if we over-perform as we've done in the past that will tend to put an additional cost on incentive comp.
And then if we underperform it will put downward pressure in a sense on incentive comp.
So what I want to suggest is this is the way we operate our business similar to other things that you do in your factories to align your interest to the shareholders.
Okay that's helpful.
And then this is more of an accounting nit but we're trying to figure out where that $0.03 of bad debt write-off where does it show up in your results? I couldn't find it in the Q.
So maybe you can share with us what happened...
Sure.
Yeah.
And where we might find that.
So it's in our EPD segment and it was about a 90 basis point impact on margins for the quarter.
We took it in there.
We did not adjust it out.
And it really relates – the end user is certainly still intact but the way our policy works as you talked about after a period of time if we have visibility the contractor did go bankrupt then we go ahead and take a reserve against it.
But at the end of the day the product still may ship in the future because they need it for the facility but the way we do our accounting we took the charge.
Where would we have seen it discussed in the Q I'm just – we saw the announcement in the press release last night and the reference in the slide but there was no other detail provided.
Would we not see that discussed is it not material I'm just curious for next time? It was highlighted in the press release.
So you can see the impact on earnings per share on a consolidated basis but materiality for EPD it's part of our normal reserve allowance analysis and didn't highlight it.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Nathan Jones of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning Nathan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Mark I just want to follow up on Deane and Joe's there.
If you're looking at that 100 basis points for the year on comp you're looking at probably about $40 million.
And as you said that's largely levied to your delivering what you promised on guidance at the start of the year.
So what is the kind of – how should we think about how much of that comes back into expense next year assuming say you give guidance in January or February and you actually hit that number? Well the way you think about it is – I mean you've got a number of things in comp.
I mean what we're doing is we're spending a lot of time on incentive comp Nathan.
But we have other things that go the other way.
You way merit increases every year.
So I don't want to get too caught up in any one specific item.
But the point is you just take a step back.
The way we design our comp is to – is aligned with our shareholders.
So when you look at our guidance in any given year you should assume that we have plans right around where our commitments are to the extent and it's all interlinked.
I mean you talk about our annual increases our annual incentive comp or our bonuses our long-term metrics that are all tied to the shareholders.
So the simple way to think about it is when we put a commitment out there if we exceed it then we share the benefit with the shareholder.
And if we don't then it goes the other way.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's fair.
And I would like to attack the margin question for next year in a different way.
If we break down your business into it's probably only going to be about 10% projects next year and say a 45% run rate and 45% aftermarket.
If the pricing on project is down 15% and say the run rate is down 3% that would get me something like a 250 basis point to 300 basis point headwind on margins in the absence of anything else.
So just taking in isolation is that a reasonable way to think about the pricing that's going to run through your revenue next year? Well all other things being equal that's of course the way the math would work.
But if you see a mix shift towards more or less aftermarket that will impact margins as well.
The other thing is the cost savings how they come through and when they come through.
As you can see once we get a run rate of $125 million that's significant in terms of the margin profile right.
On last year's revenues that's – what is – that's about 250 basis points...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
...of margin in and of itself but that is a way to look at it.
I think I have commented before during – when I referenced last downturn we saw the margins in the projects go down by literally 25% – 20% 25% on all of 20% of our business that was significant.
So the math works but there's a lot of moving parts.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks.
That's helpful on that part.
And can you just give us an update on what you expect for incremental savings in 2016 over 2015 before you hit that full run rate? I think that probably we have very little this year and we – right now we expect the full run rate to come in the end of next year.
And I know that's frustrating but let me tell you when you deal with these things they're anything but linear.
I mean we're talking about people we're talking about various countries around the world and those are what drive the timing and achievement of these savings.
But the fact is we just want to give you a general sense that we see a plan where we can execute these through the end of next year.
And I think it's important to point out.
Some of the – we're not going to stop with that.
We still think we have significant opportunity in product optimization certainly manufacturing optimization.
You heard about our capital expenditures we're acquiring a facility in China or we're going to build out a facility in China to move some of our valve manufacturing too.
Over time what you're going to see is that's going to help us further optimize our global platform.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I wouldn't expect you to be standing still Mark and thanks very much for the color.
Appreciate it.
Yeah.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Bye-bye.
Bye.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bhupender Bohra of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hey so just wanted to – if you guys can talk about SIHI there was some commentary about like improving gross margins over there and how the integration is proceeding right now.
It's going well.
We have – as Karyn mentioned it was basically flat to slightly positive including purchase price accounting and if you take that out was about $6 million positive.
From an integration standpoint and Tom mentioned we've been able to use some of their very capable capacity to rationalize some of our facilities into – but I would say in general the real positive has been the ability to leverage some of their capabilities.
We've learned a lot.
We've learned a tremendous amount from acquiring this business and we're certainly excited about it not only in the results that you've seen but in the potential of that business to globalize it.
The comment I made around margins was historically if you looked our industrial segment you saw roughly mid-to-high 20%s in terms of the margins.
SIHI had a higher margin profile gross margins I'm referring to in the low-to-mid 30%s.
So that was my reference around the gross margins.
Okay.
And just a follow up with Tom on these – the new crackers which are coming up down in Texas.
We're talking about the first wave and you mentioned about the second wave to hit maybe in 2017 just explain us like at what particular – at point in cycle do we the Flowserve actually participate like when do the projects or the products do actually go into these projects like is it early cycle or like late in the cycle of the projects? Yeah I would say a little bit later cycle of the projects.
And keep in mind that we sell different types of projects into that cracker again the residual plants that go in there.
So you could have a longer cycle projects that may last 8 months and you could have shorter projects that are 3 months to 6 months.
So it's a varied amount of the products into that – into those plants.
Okay.
And did we see that in the IPD if you look at the aftermarket IPD bookings were pretty strong ex-SIHI and the FCD bookings.
What was that the factor over there? Yeah.
I would say if you looked at SIHI I think Mark also mentioned that there is about 80% of that business is run rate business as opposed to large project.
All right.
So you're seeing some of that run rate business hold up as we've indicated in previously.
Okay.
And any color on power end market final question? Yeah.
If you look at the power market I mean there's a lot of activity going on with coal now with the environmental requirements.
So we're seeing a lot of coal plants being discussed in terms of switching to natural gas.
That's the one thing that's happening.
We are seeing again some environmental change outs in coal units themselves which present some opportunities.
And then we're also seeing a combined cycle natural gas build out in a number of places around the world which is – it seems like it's beginning to get some steam behind it.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Couple questions for Karyn.
With the discussion just around cash flow and balance sheet the leverage ratio traditionally for Flowserve has been 1 times to 2 times on a gross basis.
With you coming in are you thinking about that differently might you reconsider how you're looking at included cash and maybe some of the priorities going forward? Yeah.
So right now no change to our financial policies that we have in place.
We'll continue to look at that but the stated target has been 1 times to 2 times gross debt-to-EBITDA.
We have a regular dialogue with our board regarding allocation capital and any decisions regarding our capital structure.
Look we've used that opportunistically over the last few years to one I think kind of right-size the balance sheet and use as a source of funds for buying back shares over the past four years we've returned over $2 billion to shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
And so this amount is significantly in excess of our stated policy over the longer term of returning 40% to 50% average of our two-year net income to shareholders.
So we'll continue to work through that continue to be opportunistic but we'll continue to maintain a relatively strong balance sheet as we head into the markets that we are looking at.
All right.
Fair enough.
And just separately could you maybe just talked about receivables.
So there has been I guess mix data points about some of the national oil companies specifically and the bad debt expense even that you took in the quarter just about getting paid by some of these customers that are under particular stress with oil where it is.
Can you just talk about your experience or the concerns that cash flow generation could slow down on that factor or are you seeing it differently? We're seeing a little bit of a slowdown in terms of collections.
In particular in terms of our bigger customers they continue to pay.
And so at this point in time we don't have additional reserves or concerns about ability intent otherwise we would have booked incremental reserves above the one bad debt that we had this quarter.
But AR is down as overall just and primarily that's lower sales and lower pricing.
But at this point we don't have any significant concerns on anything in particular as we head into – at year-end but of course we continue to monitor that from a credit perspective and are very very diligent around it.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from William Bremer of Maxim Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Mark Tom Karyn.
Hey Bill.
Tom the question is regarding downstream activity and you voiced of we're all seeing many of these refineries at or close to nameplate capacity.
Would you be able to give us a little more granularity of what you're seeing here domestically and what you're seeing internationally and how that affects your business? Yeah.
I mean Bill I would say overall the MRO activity on the downstream is – I would say has held up reasonably well versus the prior sequential.
So we're pretty pleased with that aspect.
And I would say in some of the businesses like the valve business they've done pretty good on the aftermarket the control valve business relative to the petrochemical area.
So we're pleased also there.
So I would say overall on the aftermarket a good I would say steady performance I would say over the last three quarters given everything that's going on in there.
Now relative to the North America I mean we still see deferrals happening but we still have our fair share of the aftermarket business.
Excellent.
One for you Karyn.
You mentioned the DSOs came back couple days.
The last question sort of voiced whether or not you're able to pull any more levers there and given the pricing now and some of the end customers should we just make the assumption that DSOs pretty much hold this type of level going forward? Look the company continues to make I think a lot of progress in terms of working capital okay in terms of the approach to it.
So for example from an accounts receivable perspective on a systems level some really solid progress in terms of generating reporting tools that help to focus on collections.
So one of the things that we're looking at right now is really moving that focus from the site level we are driving improvements in terms of collections to really generate more meaningful improvement in working capital.
We intend to take a global approach and focus on the entire end-to-end process.
So to your question yeah I think we're probably going to level out here a little bit in the short-term.
But in driving a more wholesome improvement we do expect to lever the tools that have been created to-date and the work that's been done to-date.
But in order for us to drive a more dramatic improvement in working capital we intend to standardize terms and dedicate a global collection team automate dispute management drive further discipline compliance so all the way through the entire sales process.
So we plan to implement global standardized procedures which will range from order to entry to billing to cash application from purchasing to payables and from record to report.
So as we put out these standard procedures in place globally over time we would expect sustainable meaningful improvements but it will take some time.
I look forward to it.
Care to give us a target? Look these types of shared service type models can take around two years or so to build.
We would expect to see some tangible benefits within the first 12 months to 24 months but real sustainability once all the sites are rolled out and everything is back integrated it's going to take up to about two years.
And my final question is on the underlying tax rate.
You voiced the reason why it sort of jumped a little bit this particular quarter.
Going forward and into 2016 where should we place it? We're still expecting to be in the range of around 30% to 31%.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Giordano of Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
Good afternoon.
So most of my questions at this point have been answered.
Just maybe if I can ask you about bid-ask spreads in the M&amp;A space right now particularly on – maybe on some energy assets have we seen after the second leg down kind of a reevaluation of sell side expectations there? In general what we've seen on the smaller ones that are privately owned is the sellers are still looking for recent prices that they've seen.
It just takes a little time for that to adjust out of their thinking.
I mean these are often family-owned businesses they started they've been involved with for a period of time.
Unless they have some real urgency to exit the business they will tend to have long memories on strong markets and short memories on weak markets.
Larger properties a bit more rational? No – we primarily had been focusing on the bolt-on space but you've seen what's happened generally overall with some of the other flow control assets and how they've moved.
For sure.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Rose of Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thank you for taking my call.
I just wanted to follow-up on the backlog and the margins and just to get a better sense in terms of the last time it took a while to work through backlogs you had some pressure on margins I mean the longer the products sit in backlog.
You've done a lot of work on documentation to help expedite this.
So is there a potential risk that we've got these lower margins in there for a protracted period of time and maybe you can kind of handicap for us what you are seeing as products are delayed what the impact is on your existing margins? Well yeah I don't know if you were comparing – I mean the last time some of it was our fault around execution that extended these things in backlog and we've significantly improved on that.
The fact is that the backlog relative to where we were in the last cycle and projects is lower so there is less to actually flow through over that period of time.
So what you see in our backlog right now is more of a mix of run rate business and aftermarket.
Having said that as you've seen this in the oil industry last time oil snapped back relatively quickly and these projects were – there was still a sense of urgency to get these projects on line.
One thing that is different is we're certainly seeing that these projects aren't running at a pace in terms of delivery that they were before and even slower than what we saw in the last cycle.
So I think the risk is and we've seen this during the course of the year is that the backlog the delivery can extend we're not worried that they're going to go away because a lot of these projects are well underway.
But we could see where customers can push these things from quarter-to-quarter and in fact we have.
To your point what that's going to impact obviously if – project backlog is typically in almost all instances your lowest margin backlog.
If it gets pushed you could say that that could help margins the fact is around the project or the gross margin in and of itself.
But it does impact revenues and this is what you're seeing in the EPD segment is the revenue decline was – it was difficult to offset with reduced fixed cost and so you lose the fixed cost leverage in your operating margins.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then if we can kind of segue into the inventory side of it maybe you or Karyn can provide a little bit of color on what you're doing to better manage the inventory in this environment? Well part of what you see and you can see it in some of our supplemental disclosures and our 10-Q is when projects tend to get delayed in terms of delivery you see a build in work in process in finished goods.
A lot of these projects are work in process.
So it will tend to build there from an inventory standpoint.
Thank you.
And I would add relative to supply chain I mean we have efforts going on in terms of making sure that the material's coming in at the appropriate time to the facilities.
We look at the cycle time on our products and we always gravitate on projects relative to cost reduction and/or cycle time and you'll see probably a little more effort on our part in terms of our research and technology area gravitation towards lead times and driving more time out of the business that way.
But a lot of effort going on in the supply chain right now.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Ryan Connors of Boenning &amp; Scattergood.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for fitting me in.
I wanted to talk about the water business.
It's something I hadn't heard you mention in quite some time in your prepared remarks.
And you did so this time a couple of times.
I think Mark and Tom both mentioned desal.
So can you expand on that for us a little bit and where exactly you're seeing that what types of projects those are and what the materiality is where you felt it was worth noting? Yeah.
I mean the water and wastewater business was up not too much it was up almost about 3% but it's a small percentage of the overall piece.
A lot of our desal business is categorized in our power business and we are still seeing we are still seeing some good opportunities in the desal both in the Middle East India and while that business hasn't returned to the levels that it was – it's constantly I would say always in the background we're now starting to see some early kind of feed work starting in that area.
So the expectation is that there must be some movement towards moving that now to proposal stages as the EPCs get down with their evaluations.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then I'll throw this out there as well and just see if you have any comment.
What – that CALDER business is essentially a duopoly and your biggest competitor there had a pretty notable development in the quarter they signed a nine figure deal with Schlumberger to basically market a fairly similar device that they adapted for down hole drilling and fracking.
They claim it's going to reduce pump needs dramatically there.
Is that something where your team is looking at that as something you can adapt to your product as well or is that something – or have you seen that or any comment there? I mean we certainly see that as an opportunity but obviously as you can tell from them they are ahead of us on that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Well thanks for your time.
Thank you.
And we have reached our allotted time.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Flowserve 2015 Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
My name is Paulette and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Jay Roueche Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
And good morning everyone.
We appreciate you participating in Flowserve's fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings call.
Joining me this morning are Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer; Karyn Ovelmen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Tom Pajonas Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Following our prepared comments we will open the call to your questions.
And as a reminder this event is being webcast and an audio replay will be available.
Please be aware our earnings materials do in this call will include non-GAAP measures.
Please review the reconciliation of our adjusted metrics to our reported results prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles which can be found in both our press release and earnings presentation.
Please also note that this call and our associated earnings materials contain forward-looking statements which are based upon forecasts expectations and other information available to management as of February 18 2016.
These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties and many that are beyond the company's control.
And except to the extent required by applicable law Flowserve undertakes no obligation and disclaims any duty to update any of these forward-looking statements.
We encourage you to fully review our Safe Harbor disclosures contained in yesterday's earnings materials as well as our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are all available on our website at flowserve.com in the Investor Relations' section.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mark Blinn Flowserve's President and Chief Executive Officer for his prepared comments.
Thank you Jay.
And good morning everyone.
We'll quickly recap our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results this morning.
Additionally and more importantly I'll outline the actions we are taking to improve our operating and financial performance.
Let me begin by saying that overall I am pleased with our fourth quarter financial performance which delivered full year results in line with our expectations discussed last quarter.
The downturn in our served markets during 2015 was more severe widespread and persistent than we and the industry at larger originally anticipated a year ago.
The sharp declined that began in upstream oil and gas spread across the industrial complex as year progressed.
Compounding the challenges in our served industries the strong dollar was also a major headwind throughout the year.
And regionally petroleum driven economies in most emerging market such as Latin America remain more challenged.
Against this market backdrop I'm pleased with how our organization responded.
Our employees remain committed to our customers and continued to deliver quality products and services through our strong operating model focused on execution.
Importantly we've taken definitive proactive measures to better competitively position Flowserve for long-term growth and value creation.
While we anticipate ongoing headwinds in the coming year we are confident that the actions we implement in 2015 and the expanded program and growth indicatives we will discuss today provide us with a solid foundation to drive profitable growth through the market cycle.
As we look to the future global macro fundamentals suggest that Flowserve's end markets will continue their longer term secular growth patterns confirming we serve the right strategic industries.
Population growth in an emerging middle class will drive energy demand.
And aging infrastructure in energy power chemical and general industries will require refurbishment or replacement.
Our end markets are inherently sound over the long run.
Although they are currently cyclically challenged.
While we can't control the near-term cyclicality Flowserve is well equipped to weather period of volatility.
And our track record demonstrates that we are well positioned to capitalize on long-term industry growth drivers.
Even as we plan for a lower for longer environment in the near term.
Let me dive into some of the actions and opportunities we are pursuing.
While leadership and technology products and services are fundamental tenant of our competitive model the markets we compete and demand that we are also competitive with our cost structure.
In 2015 and continuing into 2016 the actions we are taking are transformational for Flowserve.
In essence we are structurally repositioning Flowserve for the future.
First we are aggressively taking actions to align our SG&amp;A cost structure to market realities.
These decisions are difficult and we consider our options thoughtfully before acting.
We are not taking these actions lightly as they impact our most valuable asset namely Flowserve associates.
In addition we believe the current cycle creates the right environment to accelerate the structural changes we've addressed in prior calls.
These actions are critical to leveraging our global operating model and establishing a flexible responsive manufacturing network that addresses the need of market and customers.
Against both of these objectives we've made significant progress against our previously announced $125 million realignment plan.
In the fourth quarter we executed over $50 million of activities bringing the full year 2015 investment approximately $80 million.
This investment includes the closure or repurposing of seven manufacturing facilities and a few redundant QRCs while reducing over 5% of our workforce since first quarter of 2015.
Beyond this announced program we also made significant stride in integrating SIHI and achieving the synergies we expected to date as part of our transaction economics.
Our ability to execute on our diverse set of initiatives during 2015 has provided us the confidence and the ability to accelerate even more of our longer-term plans.
We developed these actions over a number of years and initially expected and extended timeline to implement.
However current market conditions provide the opportunity to act now.
As such we are now expanding the previous $125 million realignment initiative which we expect to execute over two year period.
We now envision a total investment of around $350 million including about $50 million of expense that is below the operating income line.
With expected annualized savings of approximately $215 million once completed.
With approximately $80 million of realignment expense realized in 2015 excluding SIHI initiatives this leaves us $270 million remaining to execute over the next two years.
While some of our initiatives are in respond to volume reductions in the current market a majority of the actions we are taking are structural in nature focused on capacity optimization product rationalization supply chain optimization and developing a low cost manufacturing base for competitive positioning.
Together this will fundamentally change our engineered business.
We've demonstrated proven success in our ability to transform manufacturing capacity and permanently reduce cost.
During 2016 we plan to accelerate the closure or repurposing of eight facilities that were part of our longer term plan.
Additionally we will further delayer the organization which is intended to increase accountability and performance.
In summary when our expanding program is complete we expect to reduce our manufacturing footprint by approximately 30%.
Improved plant and machine utilization and significantly increase our manufacturing capabilities and labor hours in low cost region.
We expect to realize savings of approximately $125 million in 2016 and $185 million next year.
We've a proven record of reducing cost and are confident that we can deliver on this plan.
In addition to our ability to drive further cost out of the system I'm equally encouraged by growth opportunities that are available to Flowserve.
For instant we see significant upside for growth in aftermarket and MRO.
We have a QRC network that is well positioned globally.
Our core aftermarket activities of parts repair and service have shown the resiliency we expect even in 2015.
And while we won't predict the timing we do realize there is a building aftermarket tailwind coming from last year's deferred maintenance activities.
As we've seen in the past the longer facilities continuously run the greater the workload is available to us when customers do catch up.
And while much of our MRO sales were classified as run rate OE this activity demonstrate substantial aftermarket attributes.
In short a significant majority of our annual revenue is brownfield in nature serving existing infrastructure that is permanent and need regular attention which we believe provides opportunities to improve our share of the customers operational spending.
For Flowserve and our shareholders this work forms an attractive recurring revenue stream created from decade of our installed base.
And we intend to increase our focus on this aspect of our business with a number of initiatives.
We are also committed to remaining a significant competitive supplier into new large product opportunities that make sense for our business.
The logic is simple.
Project work absorbs cost in our manufacturing facilities and keeps Flowserve as a technological leader and innovator in our industry.
Additionally custom and highly engineered products inherent in our EPD segment create a new installed base and provide a competitive advantage for future aftermarket and MRO opportunities.
We believe with the manufacturing and product optimization strategies we are implementing that Flowserve will remain a strong competitor in the marketplace while the quality of our products brand and operational excellence remain key selling point.
We also see sizable opportunities in our industrial business.
IPD is done an admirable job of lowering cost to drive margin performance in recent years.
But the priority had is growth.
We've recently named a new leader for this segment that brings proven track record of the success to drive IPD forward.
One of the unique opportunities available to us is to drive increase sales through the distribution channel.
Our valves business recognizes about 40% of its revenue through distributors.
IPD has a number of products that are applicable to this avenue and we are pursuing it aggressively.
Additionally our acquisition of SIHI has enabled alternative go-to-market method with a greater focus on run rate business which we can incorporate with existing IPD products.
Additionally we now have a more extensive portfolio that we can better leverage as a result of the Innomag and SIHI acquisitions.
Both of which primarily serve the chemical industry.
Even in the challenged market we believe IPD is positioned for stronger growth long term.
In fact we see opportunity to gain share in the marketplace across our strategic product line.
With a depth and breadth of our unparalleled flow control product and service offerings Flowserve is well positioned to continue adding value for our customers.
Likewise this frame agreements multiyear performance contracts and preferred supply arrangement and traction in the industry Flowserve compete very effectively as we currently have over 400 such programs predominately with substantial customers.
And we believe there are still opportunity in our customer focus initiative and end user strategies.
Lastly Flowserve continues to demonstrate operational excellence and a continuous improvement culture that drives result.
We continue to lower the cost of poor quality pursue outsourcing opportunities and leverage our supply chain and logistics all in an effort to drive out cost.
At the same time we are committed to producing innovative products and enhancement for the industry and we'll continue to demonstrate discipline in our pursuit of new work.
Before turning it over to Karyn who will cover our recent financials in detail let me finish by saying that while our end markets remain challenged and maybe for sometime we are in top of it.
Flowserve is and will remain a strong competitor with the ability and culture to drive performance.
Let me now turn it over to Karyn and I'll return afterwards for my final comments.
Thanks Mark.
As we indicated in our preliminary release several weeks ago 2015 fourth quarter adjusted earnings were in line with the expectations we conveyed during the third quarter call.
A stronger performance this quarter leveraged strong shipment levels consistent with our traditional seasonality.
Our adjusted fourth quarter EPS of $0.89 excludes realignment expenses of $0.31 negative below the line currency impact of $0.06 $0.02 for the non-cash valuation allowance and the Latin American deferred tax asset and SIHI impact of $0.01.
Partially offsetting these items is a $0.05 benefit from the reduction of contingent consideration related to a 2013 acquisition.
All in reported EPS was $0.54.
In our preliminary release early this month we indicated our fourth quarter adjusted EPS would exclude the reserve established for in at-risk customer.
As we've shown today we did not add back the $0.06 incurred since we view this as part of our business and wanted to be consistent with prior quarters.
But to compare on an apples-to-apples basis with our preliminary release our results were at the high end of our expectations.
The reserve in question is related to an at-risk customer and includes the write-down of inventory work in process and receivables from European company that has formally indicated it needs to rework its liabilities and if unsuccessful is at risk for insolvency.
When market conditions get challenging we recognize we will see the occurrence periodically.
While Flowserve generally does not have customer concentration issues we do strive to take all the steps we can to protect Flowserve assets.
Turning to our bookings.
On a constant currency basis they declined 24.8% in the quarter excluding SIHI's contribution of $54 million.
As a reminder both the 2014 fourth quarter and full year had record levels of bookings which created tough comparisons.
Looking further at our bookings profile original equipment orders were down 32.4% or organic aftermarket bookings declined 13.6% in constant currency.
As Mark mentioned our core part services and repair aftermarket business has largely shown the resiliency we expect during 2015.
While we have experienced some maintenance delays the larger headwinds we face from reduced level of CapEx driven aftermarket projects such as efficiency upgrade as well as few parts tied to new units.
Similar to all of 2014 our end markets during the fourth quarter continue to be impacted by low and volatile oil and gas prices.
A strong US dollar and emerging market weakness.
Certain end markets even deteriorated further in the quarter as oil drifted lower and uncertainty increase.
For instance during the first three quarter of 2015 our bookings in power chemical and general industries held at better than we experience in our oil and gas markets.
The trend changed a bit in the fourth quarter as we saw these markets taking additional step down as customers deferred capital investment and pulled in their maintenance budget conserving cash.
Likewise in our regional basis the Middle East and North America were better performers through much of 2015 but this trend did not continue in the fourth quarter.
However Europe produced some relative improvement and activity levels versus the first three quarters of the year.
Latin America our most challenged region throughout 2015 remains extremely soft with delays occurring in nearly all projects with our important customers in Brazil Venezuela and Argentina.
Considering the quarterly volatility in our served end markets and region we experienced this year our visibility heading into 2016 remains limited.
From a sales perspective we generated $1.3 billion in the 2015 fourth quarter an increase of 1.2% on a constant currency basis including $76 million from SIHI.
This was also a 17.4% increase sequentially again reflecting Flowserve's normal seasonality.
Excluding SIHI's contribution sales declines 4.3% in constant currency compared to last year.
Again our aftermarket business held up better as sales increased 2.2% on an organic constant currency basis.
For the full year 2015.
Flowserve's constant currency revenues increased 2.4% including $294 million from SIHI.
Looking at our margins even with Q4 revenue declines in over 12% in tough pricing environment adjusted gross and operating margins declined only modestly demonstrating Flowserve's strong operating performance a shareholder alignment and focus on cost.
Additionally the increased mix of aftermarket sales and some savings from our realignment actions also contributed.
Considering we are at a challenging part of the cycle we are focused on effectively managing our SG&amp;A expenses.
Our fourth quarter SG&amp;A declined $23 million year-over-year or 9.1% excluding the impact of SIHI realignment and the benefit associated with the reduction in acquisition related contingent consideration.
The decline is primarily due to lower variable composition and modest realignment benefits.
Our fourth quarter and full year adjusted tax rate of approximately 29.3% and 29.1% were in line with our full year guidance rate of 30% to 31%.
On a reported basis the fourth quarter and full year tax rate is elevated as a result of accrued exit taxes for site closures and a non cash valuation allowance we took on certain deferred tax assets in Latin America.
Turning to cash flow.
Flowserve generated total operating cash flow of $286 million in the 2015 fourth quarter or approximately $2.18 per share.
Capital expenditures were $43 million in the quarter as we continue to make discipline investments in our business to support long-term growth.
We also repurchased approximately 1.2 million Flowserve shares during the quarter.
And for full year 2015 we returned almost $400 million to shareholders through dividends and repurchases.
Approximately $160 million remained available under our current share repurchase program at yearend.
Turning to our 2016 outlook and EPS guidance.
We are reaffirming our full year adjusted EPS guidance of $2.40 to $2.75 a share which includes approximately $0.10 of above the line currency headwinds.
Our 2016 adjusted EPS target range expects total revenues to decline 7% to 14% including a 2% currency headwind.
Additionally it reflects yearend 2015 foreign currency rate commodity prices and market conditions.
Guidance further assumes net interest expense in the $63 million to $66 million and a tax rate of 30% to 31%.
We also expect the quarterly phasing of our guidance to follow our typical seasonal trend.
Although the first quarter is likely to be slightly pronounced after challenged Q4 books an improvement should follow.
Our 2016 adjusted EPS guidance includes the operational performance of SIHI quality through its realignment expenses SIHI purchase price accounting and integration cost below the line foreign currency effects and the impact of potential other discreet items.
We also expect that 2016 capital expenditures will be reduced versus in elevated 2015 level where we increased manufacturing capacity in Asia Pacific and purchased a license enabling increased aftermarket opportunities.
We also plan to continue contributing to our pension plan to cover service cost even as the US plan is largely fully funded currently.
With that review let me turn the call back to Mark for his remaining comments.
Thanks Karyn.
In closing Flowserve expects near term market visibility to remain limited as customers calibrate around the persistent macro uncertainties.
We expect this will result in continued delays in investment decision.
However as you have heard the near term market challenges provide us the opportunity to focus on cost take out our operational performance and growth opportunities while remaining disciplined in our bidding.
We believe Flowserve is well positioned with its extensive portfolio and consistent operational excellence.
We've demonstrated success through prior cycles controlling what we can by leveraging our one Flowserve initiative performance culture and comprehensive product portfolio to drive profitable growth.
As we've articulated today we are aggressively pursuing the sizable opportunities available to us to optimize our manufacturing portfolio and footprint.
And we will pull the necessary levers to not only manage through the current market but to position Flowserve continue to deliver long-term value to our customers and shareholders.
Operator we would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Mark so as you know Flowserve's overall business tends to be relatively late cycle.
So how do you guys get a read on energy CapEx cuts which I know you know have accelerated over the last couple months when you are setting guidance? More specifically how much concern do you have for additional pressure on your midstream and downstream oil and gas businesses? Really end markets like pipeline LNG even refining given relatively recent CapEx cuts? Yes.
Thanks Ande.
So a lot of cuts that you talked about are typically been with the multiple nationals.
We do still see project activities with some of the state owned company around the world particularly in the Middle East.
But to your point a portion of our business primarily in EPD is what you call late cycle.
And as we talked about before and you started to see this happen in the middle part of 2014 they start to curtail their CapEx expenditures you've seen this with the multinationals trying to protect their dividend.
And the fact is as those things can go off the drawing board get pushed a little bit and they don't come back real quick from -- primarily from the multinationals so they don't decide necessarily over night to bring it back online.
But typically these are in their long-term plan.
So this is part of the reason if you take a step back and looks why we primarily focused on our engineered business with some of these realignment activities.
We've been looking at these for years.
If you look at what is occurred over time and it's important that people understand this we came through a strong cycle in 2008 and in 2009 we adjusted to market and they picked up relatively quickly.
There were still quite a bit of activity in the Middle East.
But more importantly what we did as we started setting up a lot of our SPO facilities in India China enhance the one we had in Mexico built up more capabilities and our LPO/SPO strategy is designed to start to qualify these so that ultimately we can move the product and work to those locations.
So we had these things on the drawing board for a while.
What this late cycle component does is gives us time to go ahead and execute the backlog that we've had for the last year year and half and we still have backlog and there are projects that would still come into backlog but for the most part we execute that and then start moving those capabilities to these low cost regions of the world.
If you look at around some of the pipeline and other activities some of those are on some of our run rate business and that's not as late cycle.
And a lot of that is we talked about earlier some brownfield activity.
So there is still some good brown field activity because what happens is lot of these facilities continues to run and they still need repairing and upgrade.
So it kind of walking through it what the market environment does allows to do and this is why we are doing it as it allows to plan and execute and accelerate some of our what we call transformational activities around restructuring primarily in our engineered segment.
Got it that's helpful Mark.
Okay so let me ask you about the aftermarket in the context of you mentioned last cycle obviously the last cycle very different cycle but the aftermarket was flat in a difficult market.
Aftermarket bookings in 4Q were down 11% so the question is how do we think about your aftermarket business in the context of some of these big customers seemingly continuing to pull back on maintenance spend? Do you think you can maintain or increase the level of aftermarket bookings from the mid-$400 million range that you had this quarter or could it go lower still in the current environment? Well if you look back to the prior cycle we saw something similar in that there was a -- they defer their spend as long as they could.
But it came within the year back at towards the end of 2009 some of the spend activity.
First of all you talked about Q4 and the year-over-year compare we had about $550 million of bookings in Q4 2014.
That was a very very strong quarter.
That had a lot of parts tied to new unit.
It also had a lot of upgrade projects.
So those are small projects within the aftermarket portfolio.
If you strip that down and you look you can see that our run rate base maintenance was down only slightly year-over-year both on a quarter bases and on a year-over-year basis consistent with what we saw back in 2009.
So we'd expect that to stabilize unless there is any kind of disruptive event that occurs out there.
I mean what our industry saw across the board was very little activity in Q4 particularly on the project and even on the run rate side.
That was reflected in our bookings.
But we've seen some stability in the aftermarket business.
My comments earlier are some of the deferred maintenance will need to come back and come back online.
What we are looking for is to see where the efficiency upgrades come back in and while the rationalizing CapEx that may take some time.
So that's market driven.
From our standpoint what we need to is to continue to execute on some of our end user strategies.
I talked about this before but frankly we don't know where all of our installed base we are working with some of our teams to increase in inventory where that is so we can call on those customers.
They want to us help them; we just need to know that they are in and call on them.
So we are going to continue to execute end user strategies like that in an attempt to grow the aftermarket business in any environment.
And in fact if you look over the last 7 to 10 years you've seen a fairly consistent strong growth through cycle.
Most of that is not the net incremental and installed base.
A lot -- there was a base amount of net installed base that went it.
But the fact is the growth rates were higher than that.
And that was primarily from executing these end user strategies.
But when you look at our business when you have volatile moves in oil it takes everything with it.
Everything tends to move in tandem when things tend to stabilize and normalize out even at lower levels then you can get what I would say is differentiation in your end user strategies.
And any other strategy you want to execute.
Right.
So if I'm hearing you correctly as soon as oil stabilizes if it has stabilized you should see more normal aftermarket behavior.
Is that fair? That's fair.
I mean if you think about customers they are trying to figure out what the number is.
And they make investment decisions capital decisions all around that.
So I think that's part of what you see in the industry is that volatile moves and we saw it when oil moved up by the way back in 2007 so rapidly volatile moves tend to increase the correlation of bookings and all other activity to that movement in that underlying resource.
When things tend to stabilize then end users can start making investment decisions that are more longer term but when the short term is so volatile it's just tough to make a decision.
That's why everybody is.
And our next question comes from Mike Halloran from Robert Baird.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
So first just kind of finishing rounding out that last thought it doesn't sound like you think that there's a shift going on in the customer base in the aftermarket side between insourcing that type of work or outsourcing it to providers like yourself.
So maybe you could just touch on that a little bit and if there's any change in trend line there if it's pretty normal relative to what you would have seen in previous cycles.
Yes.
I don't think there is any significant shift.
If you think about it Mike you look at the complexity of the equipment of that goes in.
That tends to lead to more outsourcing because a capabilities internally for the complex work.
They are always going to look to absorb their fixed cost and good times and bad.
So the trends that are occurring is the equipment is becoming more complex that is certainly one also a lot of the resources internally to our customers are aging and retiring.
And they would prefer to outsource that work.
And then you add to that some of the capabilities we have around the end user.
And this is going to be an opportunity.
It's not just amount -- it's not just maintaining repair and servicing but its how do we get more efficiency out of those products.
We haven't seen a lot of that recently but that will -- that trend will continue.
But short term Mike in fairness everybody looks to cover any of their fixed cost.
So I can't say that didn't happen on the margin.
But that's not a long-term strategy for refinery or any kind of processing plant.
It's just trying to bring that in internally.
Short term maybe some of the things I'll do but on the complex equipment they will tend to let the experts do it.
Yes that makes a lot of sense.
And then on the IPD plan to move towards that distribution market I guess a question on balance how do you balance moving new products into that market versus an ability to maintain a margin profile and speaking more on the idea of the level of engineering and aftermarket that's going to go through the distribution channels a little lower.
So just talk about how you can protect the margin profile if not even do better than that as you move into new channels there.
Simply answer I point FCD I mean they have done thing same thing.
You can make money through your distribution channel.
I think if you take a step back and look at IPD our focus was on improving the operations and the margins which we've done.
If you look at all the adjustments and take out at-risk customer we were over 16% in the fourth quarter.
So from our standpoint mission accomplished in terms of the margin improvement but some of my comments earlier were this group broke out of engineered business and we've a real opportunity to improve how they go to market.
Various channels configure to order on electronically in terms of been able to response.
Some of these pieces of equipment are couple hundred dollars $500 $600 $1000 $1500; the customers aren't as price sensitive.
They just wanted it and they wanted it now.
So if we can execute through our online capabilities and improve those or through a distribution channel typically you can command margin because they need these for their brownfield activity.
So I think part what we are lining out for you is this is a segment of our business and we frankly we've learned a lot from the SIHI acquisition.
This is a segment of our business which has some great opportunity.
We just need to improve it.
We need to improve the way we go to market and how we execute into the channels.
And Mike you've always known me I'll say if things aren't operating the way they should be I'll tell you this is one that has real opportunity for improvement on the top line.
Great I appreciate the time Mark.
Take care.
And our next question comes from Charley Brady from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead Thanks and good morning.
Yes hi Mark.
The commentary on EPD on the bookings in the quarter obviously really heavy aftermarket weighting 72% or so which is I think probably unusually high for that business.
You kind of understand why given that that's a large project business.
But I'm wondering can you maybe talk about the margin impact on that significant mix shift and aftermarket versus OE when you tie that in with obviously you've done some absorption because the OE is just dropping off I guess my question at the end of the day is what level can you maintain the margins with aftermarket to offset the absorption issues you're hitting on EPD? Yes.
You are trying to find a math of what's kind of the inflection point but you are right with low level bookings in the project business you will have an absorption issue which can get pretty expensive.
And part of the reason not necessarily just the Q4 bookings but part of the reason we are addressing that net segment.
Charley we had looking back to 2014 and folks would have considered that a decent market and a good year for us.
We had about $150 million of under absorption in our business.
And a lot of that was in that engineered segment.
That's what put us on the path toward what we -- at that time it was going to about a five or six years transformation of that business.
You never get your under absorption down to zero but you certainly can get it to run $50 million to $70 million in your business.
So I just wanted to make that point around that engineered segment because that's a lot of the reasons we are taking those actions is to help it variablize and be much more competitive and not have to deal with under absorption.
It had an overhang coming into this downturn and so part of that is we need to attack that.
Once we attack that I think you are going to need to see higher levels of project bookings.
In Q4 there were lot of projects that were right there in front of us and they got pushed.
And that's not a typical because the customer can wait a couple of quarters and see where market settle out and it's very very competitive.
And it's to their advantage to wait over a short period of time.
So I think what you are going to see is as we start to address that we'll deal with the under absorption the after market mix will help but there is a lot of large expensive facilities in this division.
So it's going to need project work but will offset that by starting to take cost out.
That's also some of the facilities we took out last year.
So I don't have the exact math because part of it is how we get to the cost both in terms of the gross margin line under absorption and the fixed cost as well as we mentioned earlier we are taking action in some of those areas as well.
And then where the aftermarket business comes in.
Okay thanks.
And just my follow-up here is on M&amp;A just quickly I guess does the current market environment as lousy as it is in oil and gas change your thinking directionally on where you want to look towards M&amp;A as you look out to your pipeline and maybe does it move you toward areas that maybe a year and a half two years ago you might not have been thinking a strongly about? Right.
Well let me tell you one of our biggest cash M&amp;A opportunities is this restructuring.
It's got a great return but Charley no we had our line aside on certain industries which we find attractive and the real question is at what time do they make sense.
I think what you don't want is for us to decide all a sudden to go in a left hand turn direction into some area that's not core to us just because it may be viewed as relatively cheap.
So it's fair to say that we are still focused on the areas where we think we make money.
The chemical industry we've talked for years around the opportunity around upstream additional downstream or service capabilities.
We made a small service acquisition last year.
So we are going to stay focused on where we think we make money long term.
There were a couple of things we need to think about.
One is we don't want anything to conflict with these restructuring activities because this is a high return on our investment and we need to executing very well because our customers are relying on that.
The other thing to think about is just we need to make sure we are very thoughtful with our cash both in terms of the restructuring and our shareholders as well.
There is always opportunities use your stock as currency but we have to look at that relatively to the asset that we are looking at.
So we are clearly opportunities may come in this type of environment especially for company like ours that has a very strong operating platform.
But we need to always balance that against other priorities and what I'll tell you is when we can return $215 million a lot of it is going to be permanent in our business with $350 million of spend that's pretty compelling.
Our next question comes from Nathan Jones from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to just ask a couple of questions about working capital and perhaps get Karyn's take on this now that she's been there for a while.
You ended the year with core working capital about 35% of 2015 sales which has gone up considerably over the last few years.
What tactics are you guys using to get that down? What's a long-term target look like and how long does it take to get there? There are several things going on.
First on the account receivable side we are seeing slower payment in particular Southern Europe and Latin American customers.
They are continuing to pay but albeit just slower.
Accounts payable is down with inventory up majority of those increases in inventory are in working capital.
So adding cost but not necessarily in purchase parts it's more labor and less payable associated with that inventory.
Also in terms of accounts payable negotiating the terms with suppliers.
We'll pay according to terms and all through 2015 there is an emphasis to actually paying on time.
We've a lot of local suppliers so paying on time helps the timing and on time delivery as well as directionally pricing.
We have been focused locally at the site in terms of improving working capital.
As I mentioned on the third quarter earnings release call we are stepping back and looking at this now going forward on a more global perspective.
And really looking to implement in global standardized procedures around billings and cash and collection as well as order and purchasing.
So those are the type of things we are going to look at those types of programs to take time.
I think in addition with the realignment going on we will see improvements ultimately when we get through this process.
It will take a couple of years but as we consolidate and streamline our sites we should see improvement in working capital but in near term don't expect any significant swings.
Understand that.
If you think longer term is there a number that you think Flowserve's structure should operate in terms of a percentage of sales in working capital or working capital turns or however you would like to frame it? Because it does seem like there's probably several hundred million dollars in working capital that you could free up to put to better use.
We do believe there are some values there.
We don't have specific target at this point like I said we are going to look at this in a more standardized global perspective so versus really at the local site.
But yes we do believe there is some improvement there but we don't have specific target at this time.
And Mark I think you mentioned in response to one of the last questions that there were a few projects right there in front of you in the fourth quarter that got pushed.
Are those things that got pushed significantly or are they imminent? Could those orders come through in the first half of the year or have they been pushed further out at this point? No.
These were fairly well down the road and they just seemed to move.
But they can move from quarter-to-quarter.
We've seen this happen before but we did see they moved in.
And Nathan they can move still another quarter or two easily.
We still have confidence they are going to come online but remember they are very competitive.
We will response but only to a point because if you remember back in 2009 2010 and 2011 we had a lot of backlog they didn't have value to it.
And that doesn't accomplish anything for us.
So it is a competitive environment.
These things tend to push.
We have confidence some of them particularly in the Middle East are going to go forward.
But just remember environment is very competitive.
And our next question comes from Joseph Ritchie from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
So I guess my first question is on the restructuring plans Mark.
Maybe you can talk a little bit about the magnitude and the cadence of the restructuring in 2016? And then specifically is it fair to assume that a lot of the actions or a disproportionate amount of the actions are occurring in EPD? Some of the large transformational one in the large plant are in EPD yes Joe.
And a lot of these as you -- as we talked about are in OECD countries and quite a few in Europe and they take time.
You got have a long planning process in terms of just dealing with your constituencies but generally what my comments were is we expect to see about $125 million benefit this year $185 million next year.
So all other things being equal you get an earnings lift next year from just these restructuring activities.
And then we will see the run rate in 2018 which will take us up to $215 million.
Okay and then from a cost perspective you're incurring about $150 million this year is that kind of ballpark-ish the right number? I think that's number yes that we talked about earlier yes.
Okay.
And then maybe my one follow-up is really around pricing.
It looked like your gross margins in the fourth quarter decelerated a little bit versus the rest of the year.
Just curious to hear what you're seeing on the pricing environment.
Have things have gotten worse? And given that you have seen significant CapEx cuts to start the year from some of your customers I'm just curious to hear what you're hearing from your customers today.
Well some of those margins in the fourth quarter had these two customers issue right that we talked about it.
And so if you -- in a lot more up in the gross margin line but in general we are actually pleased that our margins held up relatively well.
But what you will see in the gross margin line is the pricing environment and to the extent we can offset by some of the restructuring activities.
Because lot of those fit into gross margin line to the extent they impact manufacturing facilities.
It's just going to be the timing in terms of one week and execute them some of that is outside of our control.
But we are seeing from customers and just remember we didn't have a really strong pricing environment in 2013 and 2014.
It was okay versus the last cycle we had a tremendous pricing environment in 2007 and 2008.
So but we are certainly seeing it down get competitive at that point in time.
The other thing that we will have to deal with is the top line goes down is under absorption.
And how quickly we can offset that with some other restructuring as well.
But pricing environment is competitive.
We saw this back in 2010 primarily because a lot of the project activity in 2010 was in the Middle East and that is always competitive in just about any environment.
Typically you have Korean engineering and contracting firms there they tend to be very competitive on price and demand out of their suppliers.
So we are starting to see a very competitive environment.
The real question Joe is how long this is going to last because the late cycle part of our business which is the projects which as we talked about has been well less than 20% of our business.
It tends to-- the opportunities tend to move out quick and move back slowly.
And our next question comes from Robert Berry from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys this is Phillipe Forlorne [ph] on the call for Rob today.
So first question going back to the restructuring I mean the benefit of course looks up nicely versus the previous target but the return on the investment looks lower.
Is that the message that incremental savings are becoming harder to find and is there any potential upside to these numbers if the environment were to get worse? No.
The numbers are really reflective of the type of restructuring that you have.
I mean when you $125 million for $125 million is pretty much one for one payback or one year payback.
You don't typically see that in Europe.
It cost more but the fact is those savings are permanent.
An also what you saw was a lot of the initial part was what I would call volume related headcount reduction as opposed to permanent closures of facilities.
But when you close a facility anywhere but particularly in any OECD part of the world and particularly in Europe it cost more than the savings but the savings are permanent.
I think the important thing to think about when you take a step back is if you look at our business lot of heritage capacity going back 10 years was in very expensive parts of the world.
And we are changing that.
And so what that all mean is even some of our OECD facilities are going to be have higher load levels and higher engineered equipment in them and we are going to get more advantage of some of our low cost manufacturing around the world.
So that's why we are trying to emphasis this is permanent.
This is the kind of thing that would have addressed that $150 million of under absorption back in 2014.
And not only would that have significantly improved margins once executed.
So as you think about us moving through the cycle and more margins have been this is something that will all other things being equal relative to last and we think that things are going to -- some things are going to change.
But the fact is if we had this type of manufacturing profile four five years ago our margins would have been a lot higher.
Okay that makes a lot of sense.
And then on your 2016 outlook does that imply any recovery in refining MRO spending? And what's the latest outlook there given your discussion with customers? Well there is an assumption that there will be some stabilization in some investment in some repair and maintenance in the business.
But we are not really expecting the aftermarket upgrade and certainly not the tied units to come back during that period of time.
But it does have some of our initiatives around improving the go-to-market strategy in IPD within that.
So it's not matter of us just sitting back and letting the market deal what they are going to deal.
We have to go and execute some of our strategic initiatives to achieve our guidance.
And our next question comes from Chase Jacobson from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi how are you? So Mark you talked about increasing the aftermarket sales and doing a better job tracking where your equipment is going.
But you also talked about more sales going through distribution which I thought would maybe make it harder to track the products and capture the aftermarket.
So I guess one can you address that? And two as you do try to track the products better and capture the aftermarket are you putting more people on the ground or are you doing something where you're adding more technology to your products? Yes to both.
Nobel technology to the products some monitoring capabilities boot on the ground but also technology system to track our installed base.
Going back to your earlier question the distribution channels those are out and present there we are just not taking full advantage of them in our industrial product segment.
And these distributors they can carry multiple product line and are responsive on one or two product basis to a customer that need it fairly quickly.
The end user strategies are really designed around where there are substantial installed based.
If you look at some of refineries around the world there are hundreds of pumps that are out there.
And all over the world if you look at our heritage brands going back many years there were literally some pumps that were installed in the 70s that were still supplying parts to in remote parts of the world.
So it's really around getting our hands around that inventorying it making sure we are calling on the customer.
So one of the things that we've done this year and you alluded to a little bit is really increased our focused on our sales organization and how we get out to customers on account basis.
And get more share of their wallet.
Well part of it knows what customer to call on and on what product they have in their facilities.
So we will be the first to tell you.
We can do a better job on that.
That is one of our key strategic end user initiatives this year.
So if you think about how we rolled it out over the last couple of years we've increased our QRC network and we will continue to do that.
We've worked with systems and some end user strategies to help them develop and understand how they can bring more efficiency out of an existing facility.
Because even right now they are looking for higher yields out of their processing facilities.
The other element now is making sure that we have the right people calling on the right customers not just out of QRC but our sales people and that's a separate and distinct strategy from using the distribution channel.
Distribution channel has been very powerful for our valve business.
We just haven't levered it on the IPD side.
But your point is fair.
A lot of this is OE that goes through distribution as opposed to service and repair work.
But a distributor they want to get certainly margin as well but what we found and you've seen in our valve segment is we can still get good margin on product that goes through distribution because keep in mind what the customer is looking for is they are looking for that product there very very quickly.
These aren't multimillion dollar pieces of equipment.
These can be in hundreds or even in low thousand.
So time is of the essence.
Okay that's helpful.
And then when you do your due diligence on some of the larger prospects I mean it seems like always and especially in this environment the customers tell whether it's the E&amp;C company or the equipment suppliers they tell you that the projects are going forward until they are not.
So I guess what is Flowserve doing differently now to make sure that you're putting more resources after the projects that are actually going to go forward versus the ones that are just always out there and always getting pushed? Well if you think about it when we interact with these customers we are doing a lot of the design work for these products for these facilities working on standardization.
Some of our large customers we have quarterly meetings with them to go through exactly what they are planning.
It's in nobody's interest that the both sides don't understand what's going to happen.
And what I mean by that is a customer -- if they are going to go forward with the project they have reasons long-term reasons to do that.
They may push it a couple of quarters.
So once the project starts moving down the road we have pretty good sense it's going to go forward sometimes it get cancel.
We saw that last year some projects that we thought really were going to forward they get cancelled.
It was by a multinational that was very focused on short-term capital.
But we see projects drop off or the one that are in the ideation phase that are going on the drawing board.
And as people look for visibility around the underlying value the resource they may put them off at that point in time.
But I think what I want to explain to you is there is a lot of work that's done before these things are bid.
So in doing that we get pretty good visibility.
Yes.
And I would add to that we do take a look at is the financing in place with the project and is the projects have off take agreement in place for the commodity that they are producing.
We also have different levels of activities so something that is in their earlier stages we would deploy a budget level of resources.
If all these things that I mentioned and Mark mentioned are in place then we will deploy more elaborate resources in order to go after that potential proposal.
So we have a pretty good system for weeding out those are in early stages versus those that are more firming up and getting ready for real proposal activity.
And our next question comes from Jim Foung from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
So I just wanted to maybe you could size up the opportunity in terms of selling the industrial pumps through distribution.
How large is that opportunity for you? I presume it would be incremental to what you're doing now.
It is incremental.
If you look at our valve business approximately 35% to 40% of their business goes through distribution and we are sitting probably less than 10% on the industrial side.
So if -- and in fairness I would say that 30% differential is all incremental because part of what we need to do is have disciplined around what products go through our sales force and what goes through distribution because frankly a sales organization would want to have all other products at their disposal to sell but the fact is they are only really focused on selling a few and we've seen that.
So but a lot of that is going to be incremental in the business if we get it up to the right that our valve business is operating at.
So net you're in the distributive -- you're in a lower margin through the distributors net-net your bottom line would improve from just the higher volume.
Well you do get higher volume but as I mentioned earlier time is the essence and so it's while distributors can make good margins we make decent margin on products that go through distribution.
If there was a significant margin differential companies like ours would go direct to market.
But the fact is there is a lot of value in our distribution channel.
And Jim we are not talking about big big projects going through distribution.
Again this could be $1500 pieces of equipment and where the distributor add value is they carry an array of products tha they can serve the customer fairly quickly often times they are proximate to him and so I am not saying a customer is price sensitive but they are really focused on getting that -- having that product available along with some other products that we may not serving to that customer getting response quickly and getting their facility up and running.
And Jim if you look at distributors there are many different types of distributors that add value.
Some are just buy and resale some will add content to it some will add an engineering value added to that.
So that distributor is really a route to market that we choose based on the value added that distributor can bring to that product in the territory region that the customer is in.
And our next question comes from Jonny Wright from Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
On the restructuring if we can just look at that from a different angle so I think historically in the valves you always hear a lot about increased competition from low cost Chinese competitors.
You guys are now looking to kind of pivot the manufacturing base away from developed economies into places like China.
How do you maintain the Flowserve brand whilst doing that with your customers? And also how do you think about avoiding passing that price passing the cost discounts on to the customer in the form of just lower prices and becoming more of a like-for-like competitor with the low cost Chinese guys? Well you keep in mind low costs Chinese are typically are in lower tier products.
So some of these are very very highly engineered piece of equipment.
And we don't necessarily see a lot of competition from Chinese suppliers.
These are high end controlled valves actuation highly engineered pieces of equipment.
But here is the important thing.
The way we do this is with the permission of our customer.
So part of what we've been working on over the last couple of years through the LPO/SPO strategy is working with our customers to qualify some of the manufacturing in low cost parts of the world.
And don't just mention China because labor rates are gone up quite a bit there.
We are talking about various parts of the world India Mexico.
But the other thing to remember with our customers as well is often times they want to deal with the OECD facilities so sometimes what we do when we talk about repurposes we'll make that facility engineering assembly in test it will still be the front end but a lot of the activity around the value add to the piece of equipment will be done in a lower cost part of the world.
So I am not suggesting customers on highly engineered pieces of critical equipment are wholesale moving everything to low cost parts of the world.
That may occur over time and we are prepared to move with them and doing that.
But I think the important thing these aren't commodity sold by the pound type equipment that typically get fully converted over to a low cost region of the world.
And we don't expect that to occur over the short term.
But we expected to occur faster than what it occurred over the last 10 years which is why we are taking these actions one of the reason we are taking these actions.
And our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Just a couple of quick questions most have been answered but can you just give a little bit more clarity on the restructuring or the spend you're doing below the operating income line? What are you targeting specifically and what type of savings is associated with that action? Yes I mean below the line typically those are going to be exit taxes any non cash asset write-downs or certain things that are sitting below the line but lot of those are going to be exit taxes in the business.
It's just not easy to move from OECD countries.
Okay.
So is there a payback associated with that or is it just spending that needs to be done because of the move? It needs to be done as part of the move.
I'd look at it holistically and just take a step back and say we are spending -- we are going to spend $350 million most of it is cash there is some non cash component to that most of it is cash to get $215 million of savings all of which is cash.
It's still a great payback.
Yes.
And also just maybe can you expand a little bit upon just the customers from you had a bad customer expense in the quarter obviously there's stress really across the globe in the oil and gas space.
Do you see -- what do you see from the rest of the customer base? Are there other accounts that are particularly stressed at this time where you might have to take similar actions over the course of 2016? Any color on that would be really helpful.
Well I mean things could have been typically a lot of our customers are -- we don't have high customer concentration in terms of sales.
But they are certainly at risk parts of the world.
If you look at Latin America they are certainly things that are going on down there.
I mean we don't typically have -- we serve a lot of large customers and but these things going to occur I mean one of these was a relatively medium sized distributor or small size distributor that went out of business.
So you typically when we you see the strain in our industry it typically occurs in the first 18 months maybe two years.
We don't supply necessarily a lot of the upstream smaller upstream type companies E&amp;P companies that you are hearing about.
A lot of the companies that we serve are large names or ongoing process capabilities.
But we watch this very carefully.
If I could sneak just one last quick one in just on free cash flow so I understand you had high CapEx in 2015 associated with the move presumably? But even if you normalize that we haven't seen net income equal free cash flow really since 2007 at this point.
I know there's a question on working capital previously.
But can you just maybe conceptually just talk about where you think this business should be on a run rate basis from a free cash flow conversion perspective.
And I don't think you gave 2016 expectations.
I assume that's going to be trailing as well.
But if you could talk around that subject it would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yes.
So going forward from a cash flow perspective first quarter they are generally is more cash outflow from our operation associated with taxes those types of things that we have in the normal first quarter cadence.
Our capital expense will be significantly lower.
We had approximately $180 million in CapEx in 2015.
Our expectation is that's going to be more in line with around $110 million in 2016.
So in 2015 we had higher than normal CapEx that are licenses and carryover CapEx work in 2014.
Generally speaking on the working capital like I said with this market it's little tough.
We don't expect significant swings in our inventories to go forward.
And like I said over the course of the next few years as we execute on the realignment we do have expectation that we will be able to bring working capital down but don't see any significant levers in the short term.
Do you think that net income and free cash flow will be able to converge sometime over the next couple of years? It just seems to have been to so well below net income for an extended period of time I'm just trying to get a sense of should we be expecting this business as it's it runs and you expect it to be run to be converting into free cash flow in line with the net income? In part of our reducing complexity is designed to that.
It should start approaching it.
It's going to take a while.
I mean we are going to consolidate facilities then Karyn in the years out has initiatives that we start driving shared service models and things that help really drive more efficiency across the system.
But let's keep in mind we are fairly distributed company across multiple countries and multiple facilities but no question that as we take out 30% of our capacity and doing some of the reductions in complexity which we think our customers are going to demand long term.
We should get better free cash flow in our business.
We've been as frustrate as anybody else has in terms of trying to seek that goal but we are determined to get there.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached our allotted time.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
And you may now disconnect.