Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Federal Realty Investment Trust Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce the conference leader Mr.
Cooper Campbell.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call today are Don Wood Dawn Becker Andy Blocher Jeff Berkes and Chris Weilminster.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our second quarter 2011 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the trust's operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
I'll now turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our second quarter results.
Don? Thanks Coop and good morning everyone.
At $1.02 of FFO per share reported during the second quarter compared with $0.98 last year we're very pleased with our operating performance thus far in 2011.
That bodes well for the rest of the year as I'll touch on in a minute.
The reported FFO per share would have been $0.03 higher but for the accounting requirement to treat over $2 million of interest income that we received in the quarter as a gain reported in discontinued operations and therefore not part of FFO.
That interest income represented past earnings on our Norwalk Connecticut loan to a Shopping Center development partner that we thought was uncollectible in the depths of the recession.
Turns out it was collectible as a new capital partner brought us current.
That's a good sign for the overall commercial real estate development market and was certainly good for Federal.
Not only was FFO per share strong but so is our internal growth at 1.5% excluding redevelopment and 1.6% including it.
What's particularly noteworthy given the amount of space that's out of service is developments in our increasingly full pipeline gear up.
Lease rollover growth on comparable spaces was solid at 6% on a cash basis and 16% straight-line.
In all we signed 86 new or renewal leases for a total of 370 000 feet at average first year cash rents of $28.21 compared with $26.64 for the last year of the expiring lease.
A note new grocery deal to replace an underperforming Safeway at Westgate Mall in Northern California and a strong L.A.
Fitness deal replacing our last remaining Circuit City box at Quince Orchard Shopping Center underpin the quarter.
We did report a decrease in occupancy but that was expected given the 100 000 square feet of Borders and Blockbuster closings that were inevitable.
As I said in my remarks last quarter the closing of 3 Borders locations and all of our remaining Blockbuster Video stores in 2Q couldn't help but bring down occupancy at June 30.
We came in at 93.4% leased down 40 bps from the 93.8% that we reported in the first quarter all due to those retailers.
I also said last quarter that I believe that June 30 would likely be at or near the low watermark for the unleased space in the portfolio and that we had more upside potential than downside risks at this point.
That's still the case.
I think you'll start to see increases to the lease percentage by year end.
On Borders locations Rockville Pike in Chevy Chase Maryland Santana Row and Old Town Los Gatos California are all A+ locations and won't be hard to re-lease at stronger rents than Borders was paying.
We're pretty far down the road in tenant discussions on all of them.
Our final Borders location on Philadelphia's Main Line in Wynnewood Pennsylvania will also close in the next couple of months and we need to get moving on replacing them but also expect strong interest there.
Operationally the second quarter was quite strong and that bodes well for the guidance we're going to provide for the rest of the year.
Let's talk about that for a minute.
We've increased --  we raised our guidance our 2011 guidance to a range of $3.99 to $4.04 from the existing guidance of $3.95 to $4.02.
And with that we'll also raise our dividend rate for the 44th consecutive year.
I couldn't be more thrilled than to be able to raise guidance in the dividend based primarily on favorable results and trends in tenant leasing and reduced bad debt exposure.
Andy will go through our rationale and more specifics on that in a few minutes.
But the point that I think is critical for investors to understand is that the increase in earnings guidance is possible despite very heavy investment and acquisition and development projects that hit the current P&amp;L for the benefit of future periods.
Let me explain.
For the last couple of years with the emphasis primarily on maintaining tenancy and trying to figure out where future rents were going to fallout it's been hard to make developments and redevelopments pencil.
And as you know new acquisition opportunities that made any financial sense have been few and far between.
It's been particularly hard to deploy capital but that's changing a bit particularly on the development side and we currently got a lot in the pipeline.
For illustrative purposes let's assume that Federal reports an even $4 per share of FFO in 2011 which by the way would be an all-time record.
On its face that would compare favorably to the record $3.88 that we reported last year 3% growth even though last year was helped by nearly $0.05 per share of Home Depot lease termination fees that we've talked about ad nauseaum for the past 5 quarters.
If you dig a little deeper you'd see that our current results include lots of hits to the P&amp;L reflecting the dramatic increase in productive acquisition and development activity in 2011 versus 2010.
The overall improvement in the commercial real estate landscape in strong locations has allowed us to make financial sense of future projects like Assembly Square like Mid-Pike Plaza the de-malling of Willow Lawn in Richmond and a residential development at Santana Row.
All of those development projects have either broken ground or will shortly and necessitate the requisite tenant downtime demolition and our expensive marketing initiatives to get them properly established.
Expensed acquisition costs like those at Tower Shops early in the year and a bunch more of the potential acquisition in Southern California hit us today but don't benefit us until the future.
Also between the expensed acquisition costs the dramatically increased marketing costs in Assembly Mid-Pike Santana Residential and others along with demo costs and lost rent at projects like Willow Lawn and Bala Cynwyd hit or will hit FFO for the quarter and the full year by $0.02 and $0.06 respectively more than the comparable 2010 periods.
Yet despite this we're still reporting FFO growth that takes us to record absolute numbers.
2012 will still include heavy upfront costs and as Mid-Pike and Assembly get under way but the future looks very bright to us.
Finally let me bring you up to speed on where we're deploying capital these days.
At Santana Row leasing is underway on our $34 million 108-unit luxury rental building and our expected 7% yield will more likely be an 8% maybe even a 9% at the end of the day.
Residential rents are that strong at Santana.
Earlier in the week our board approved a new $70 million investment in the next 216 residential units there at an expected stabilized yield of 7%.
After both of those projects are complete we still hope to build an additional 150 or so apartments as well as an additional 80 000 square feet of retail and 200 000 square feet of office GLA at Santana.
We would hope to have Santana Row nearly fully built out in the next 4 years market conditions permitting of course.
In addition we're close to approving another project for an additional 132-unit residential building costing an estimated $30 million to $34 million at Congressional Plaza in Rockville on land adjacent to our headquarters.
Progress at Assembly Road continues on all fronts with T-Stop bids expected back shortly.
I think actually August 10 is when they're due back in.
We hope to announce a strong theater deal as our first signed lease in the coming months and we expect to be able to announce cost yield and timing expectations also in the coming months.
For preliminary planning purposes though assume the first phase requiring $120 million to $130 million from Federal not including of course AvalonBay's apartment investment.
Similarly planning work at Mid-Pike continues unabated.
We'll have to come up with a name for that project before long with a first phase construction start plan for about 1 year from now.
We were refining cost yield and timing assumptions now but again for planning purposes assume a first phase capital requirement of $225 million to $250 million.
Lots of other redevelopment projects either underway like Willow Lawn and Bala Cynwyd or in the planning stages but it is certainly clear that we've got a strong pipeline of value creative opportunities that certainly depress accounting earnings in the short term but add long-term strong long-term value to this portfolio.
On the acquisition front just a few Ts to cross and Is to dot before we acquire a controlling interest in the Southern California retail center called Plaza El Segundo along with an adjacent retail development opportunity.
Plaza El Segundo and a redevelopment parcel make up 45 acres at the corner of Rosecrans and Sepulveda Boulevard in El Segundo California and currently comprise 380 000 square feet of great retail anchored by tenants like Whole Foods Anthropology and coming soon H&amp;M.
I can't really provide more specifics at this point because we're not fully there yet on the deal but the prospect of a West Coast presence that includes such icons as Santana Row Third Street Promenade Westgate Mall and Plaza El Segundo very exciting to us.
So that's it for my prepared remarks.
We're really happy with the way the portfolio is performing and with our potential to grow and create more value.
Things are certainly not great in every shopping center and every market.
And frankly I can't remember a time when there's been as much separation as there is today in the outlook of specific retail destinations.
Location and a proven track record doesn't take a backseat to anything.
Look forward to answering your questions following Andy's remarks.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
I'll put a little finer point in our results talk about our recent line to credit recast discuss the increase in the dividend and then provide a few comments on our improved guidance.
Before doing that I wanted to point to our expanded redevelopment disclosure in the supplement.
We've added clarity in a few of the bigger projects that Don discussed to stabilize after 2012 specifically Assembly Row and the new residential project at Santana Row.
These projects have been approved internally and are being actively pursued by the Trust.
We will add additional larger projects as we work through the approval process and these will be an addition to a regular flow of smaller redevelopments in those out-years as well.
We believe this disclosure provides a better roadmap for modeling future value creation for the Trust.
Turning to results.
Rental income increased 2.6% from last year second quarter coming from the core same-center portfolio from a redevelopment property specifically Hampden Lane in Bethesda 300 Santana Row and Escondido and also from our acquisitions of Huntington Square and Tower Shops.
We also saw a pretty significant uptick in percentage rent this quarter as a result of better sales performance from a number of tenants specifically at Santana Bethesda and Shirlington.
This is a great demonstration of how the economy isn't hitting all retail equally.
And the highest quality locations while not immune certainly continue to demonstrate their strength.
We expect this trend to continue.
Other property income remained soft on a comparative basis due to lower lease term fees.
Comparisons on a year-to-date basis are very tough as other property income is down over $4 million to a level half of our year-to-date 2010 result.
Recall that we do include lease termination fees in our same-center property operating income comparisons.
So that was a drag on the same-store growth of positive 1.5% excluding redevelopment and positive 1.6% including redevelopment that we reported in the quarter.
X the lease termination fees our same-store NOI growth would have been 2.3% for the quarter and 2.7% on a year-to-date basis.
Rental expenses were essentially flat as we recorded $1.4 million less in bad debt expense versus second quarter 2010.
Bad debt was at the lowest level we've seen since 2007 with no significant new tenant additions to our allowance and collections from a number of tenants that we had previously deemed uncollectible.
In addition rental expense benefited from the buy-outted [ph] ground leases under Bethesda Row and  Pentagon in late 2010.
A portion of this benefit is offset by higher interest expense when you get to FFO.
As Don discussed these rental expense improvements were offset by increased demolition costs as well as increased marketing expenses at Assembly.
Interest expense declined $1.5 million versus second quarter tab benefiting from a 60-basis-point year-over-year decline in weighted average rate partially offset by higher weighted average balances.
Capital expenditures in the quarter included the retirement of $37 million of higher cost mortgage debt at a 6.8% weighted average rate on Federal Plaza in Tyson Station.
An additional redevelopment spending at 108-unit residential building at Santana Row and a variety of other redevelopment projects which were funded with accommodation of additional line usage and equity issued through the ATM.
Turning to balance sheet for a moment.
We issued another $42.2 million of equity under the ATM at a net price of $85.51 per share in the quarter bringing our total for the year to $90.1 million.
We continue to believe in maintaining a consistent approach to debt versus equity to keep our balance sheet metrics in line.
In early July we recast our expiring $300 million credit facility with the new 4-year $400 million credit facility with a 1-year extension option.
The quality of Federal Realty's property strategy and management drove $700 million of demand and this significant oversubscription allowed us to tighten pricing to LIBOR plus 115 basis points at our Baa 1 BBB+ rating.
This pricing represents a new tight in the recent REIT market as demonstrated by pricing levels for us at BBB+ which were equal to or through A- minus pricing levels for high-quality REIT deals that had been executed in the prior month.
With no additional debt maturities until mid- 2012 enviable credit metrics and significant debt capacity we remain in great shape to fund appropriate acquisition redevelopment and development activities through both a fixed income and equity markets at attractive pricing levels.
Based on the quality of our results our improving outlook and the strength of our balance sheet our Board of Trustees voted to raise the quarterly dividend by $0.02 this year as opposed to the $0.01 that we raised in both '09 and '10.
2011 represents the 44th consecutive year that Federal Realty has been able to raise the dividend a record in the REIT sector and amongst the longest such streaks of all publicly traded companies in the United States.
We've raised it every year since 1967.
We've always paid it in cash and our dividend record is certainly a point of significant pride for our employees management and our Board.
I think this record is the greatest indicator of the quality of what we own the dedicated focus on how we operate it and the long-term consistency that comes with our disciplined approach.
Finally we raised our 2011 FFO per share guidance from $3.95 to $4.02 to a new range of $3.99 to $4.04 based on our strong performance and improving outlook.
Some key points to note in our improved guidance include: despite the increased vacancy in the portfolio we're calling for 2011 same-center property operating income growth in the 1% to 1.5% range which includes a year-over-year decline in lease termination fees of $5 million and over $2 million more in demolition costs and marketing expenses associated with development activities at Santana Row Mid-Pike as well as a slew of other smaller pre-development projects in the same center pool.
These decreases will be more than offset by increases in minimum a percentage rent coming from our same-center pool redevelopments and acquisitions.
We're calling for $1 million increase in G&amp;A.
The change relative to the $0.5 million we talked about in last quarter's guidance comes from increased payroll associated with additions to our West Coast team Assembly Row and Mid-Pike teams net of capitalization.
With increased use of ATM to permanently fund our acquisition and development expenditures the term out a portion of our line of credit as well as a credit facility recast to favorable rates we're looking at about a $4 million improvement in year-over-year net interest expense.
The portion of the savings in interest expense associated with the ATM usage relative to the line is offset by an increase in share count.
We're calling for 1 million more shares in our 2011 weighted average share count versus 2010 predominantly associated with the ATM.
Finally 2011 comparative results will include a $3 million year-over-year benefit associated with the early extinguishment of debt largely coming from the early termination of our term loan in 2010.
To sum it all up we produced record quarterly results based on strong same center operations.
We increased our full year guidance.
We raised our dividend for the 44th consecutive year and we're gearing up our development and redevelopment pipelines to enhance future growth.
Operator we'll now turn the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with BAML.
It's actually Craig Schmidt.
I had a question.
Regarding the theater that's going -- that may go in Assembly Row isn't there a theater in that area right now? There's not Craig.
There had been but that's been closed for a number of years.
There's [indiscernible] now.
It's a big need.
Super.
Now that sounds like a great first step.
And also on your supplemental Page 14 you list about 10 pad-site opportunities.
What would it take to start moving forward on those opportunities as opposed to being on a list? Yes.
It's a number of things and everyone as you know is different.
Entitlement is always part of the required permits.
We're able to start on a number of them right now like the Bala Cynwyd stuff that's underway.
We're pushing like crazy from the development side to make sure that we've got all the development pieces.
At the same time leasing is going out there and trying to pre-lease all.
So as those 2 things come together these things tend to hit.
You'll clearly see more increasing activity in '12 and '13 as a result of those things coming off the list.
But the timing's a little hard to predict because of those 2 factors.
Great and then just given the pleasant surprise regarding bad debts is there any more out there? Or is that a sort of a one-time positive hit? It's so funny.
It's a great question.
I mean it's a big question that we got into in terms of raising the guidance for the rest of the year.
I think the rest of the year should be clean.
I think what we see is a clean set up.
Now what's going on this week and last week in the markets and how much this affects the world going into 2012 and further is obviously anybody's guess and that's certainly scary.
But everything that we see -- I mean the reason we raised the guidance is I saw a strength from a bad debt perspective in every market we're doing business in Craig.
I saw it in California.
I saw it in Philly.
I saw it in Washington and saw it in Boston.
And so when it's that broad-based I got comfortable with raising the guidance.
Yes.
And if I could just add to that Craig.
I mean based on what Don said that's why there's still a $0.05 range too.
So depending on the outcome is it terminated where you show up in that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
On Assembly Row appreciate all of the kind of extra disclosure you have on Page 14.
But on Assembly Row now I have to hit you on it.
So you had a ROI of 5% to 7% there which is a relatively wide range.
Can you talk about kind of the factors that would drive you up or down from there that you could identify now? Yes yes there's a couple of things.
The single biggest piece of good news is that theater deal basically being negotiated though now fully documented at this point and that being a great anchor in terms of the rental stream.
Now on the rest it's going to be a combination of outlets rent-based tenants some service tenants and restaurants.
There is more unknown if you will about the outlet piece than there is about the restaurant piece.
And so that range those conversations as we start getting into them how many of them are percentage rent deals how many of them have unnatural brakes all that stuff provides that level of uncertainty at this point and that's what you should expect more something more concrete over the next year basically.
But that's not something in 1.5 month or 2 months I'm going to be able to -- okay going to 6.1 months something like that.
So that's why we give that range.
And you're right it's wide.
Okay.
And then on the -- I mean I know you can't give much more detail on El Segundo but I mean there's been some publicized deals of kind of similar type assets that people talk about very low cap rates and just kind of in the context of this acquisition how you're feeling about pricing and kind of what makes this special versus sort of paying a kind of a very low cap rate or I guess your color on the way you're looking at acquisitions in the context of this deal.
I'll give you a little bit.
I think I feel a little bit like Joe Girardi being -- saying "I can't tell you too much about Phil Hughes and I'm not going to really answer too many questions on it." And then the next set of questions are about Phil Hughes.
But with respect to plans to El Segundo I mean look if we get this deal done it's expensive.
This is A+ real estate.
It's expensive.
There is -- it's really the first one that we've looked at.
We've said "You know what we will really stretch on this thing to pay up." Because if you know this location if you know the demos and the trends in this part of Southern California you know it's really strong.
So we certainly want it and Jeff can chime in here.
Anything else that we've looked at that has this type of presence and there are very very few of them going to go for a very low cap rate there's is no doubt about it.
But I really can't get into that deal more than at this point more than I can -- to say more than that because we want to get it finished.
Okay I don't have much to add to that Don.
I mean Paul I think you know that the market right now for A-quality shopping centers is being driven by institutional buyers whether it be a pension fund or an insurance company.
And yes I guess when they look at their alternatives in the fixed income markets and other areas where they invest things don't look so rosy.
So they're really paying up for real estate now and that's what's driving price for the A-quality properties and you start moving away from the As and obviously the returns go up.
But one of the problems we're having right now in direct conversations with owners is an owner may own a B that could become a B+ or an A- but he sees the A pricing and he thinks he deserves A pricing and there's  just not a deal to make.
It's incredibly difficult right now.
I mean so you think basically we're back to a point where kind of these value-added stories are getting -- the seller is getting compensated for the upside.
Well I think that might be a good general conclusion but what I tell you is that depends on the deal.
And every deal is different at the level of risk that's associated and the amount of clarity that's associated with each of those value-add opportunities that's different.
So it is a little bit hard to be general in that respect.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> A few questions.
I guess Don if it's not a sort of done deal why disclose El Segundo now? And is there any opportunity to maybe partner up with a maybe a pension provider? I'm assuming you'd knock out some of your competition.
I'm not going to address the last point there Jeff and we felt comfortable disclosing it now is really all I'll say on the first.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a few questions.
You have I guess a growing development/redevelopment pipeline.
We've been asking about Chicago for years.
Any consideration of maybe selling those assets to recycle capital into that pipeline? Yes.
There is -- we look at it asset by asset.
I guess you do know that we just sold Feasterville in Pennsylvania and we are looking at selling one of the assets in Chicago in fact.
Just around the model? [indiscernible] Yes we are.
So we're in the market now on one of them up in Lake Zurich Northlake.
But again not particularly because of Chicago but because of what we see about with respect to the balance between what we can get paid for it and where we can reallocate the proceeds.
So the other assets we have in Chicago boy they're good assets really good assets.
And so it's a little tougher decision depending upon where we can allocate proceeds but the question's a really good question.
I mean you will always see us balancing between in the way we deploy capital and deploying capital includes retrieving some of it back.
So you're always going to see some assets for sale from us and these are the latest.
LLC</strong> And I'm not sure if you can really talk about it but I believe in the Boston area the Newbury line portfolio is out in the market.
Is there any color you can share with that? Or is that not something you can talk about now? Yes it is out in the market and I don't think it's any secret that we'd love to own it.
Whether we're going to be able to pay the price necessary to own that portfolio or not I don't know.
But we'll certainly be active throughout that process.
And I guess Jeff -- gosh -- Jeff Berkes that process has a couple of months left in it? Yes I would say a handful of weeks in the bidding process.
LLC</strong> And just 2 more actually.
Bala Cynwyd I mean someone mentioned in the redevelopment pipeline that you'd added some pad sites there.
I had been there recently.
Is it fair to say that the grander redevelopment there is just off the table for a few years maybe because of local zoning conditions rather than market conditions? Yes the local -- the big project is off the table for 5 or 7 years but it's not because of zoning.
It's really because of NRDC buying Lord &amp; Taylor back a few years ago.
I mean you go back it's Lord &amp; Taylor that's on that site and they were paying a very low rent and it was a crummy store and the future of Lord &amp; Taylor was not clear.
NRDC and Richard Green buys that company -- They do a beautiful -- Richard Baker buys that company -- They do a beautiful job in kind of repositioning them and they really want that site.
We have adjusted the lease so we've gotten a big piece of value from a big ramp up on that store.
And they're going to put a few million dollars into the store.
So we look at that and say "Gosh can we get paid for the site basically from the existing tenant and supplement it with additional pads around it for the next 5 7 10 years?" I'll do that all day long way lower risk and great economics.
So that's why that's happened much more so than zoning related.
I mean zoning's a piece it's -- that's timing.
But the new rent deal Lord &amp; Taylor is in place today.
LLC</strong> And just last question I think you're talking in Assembly Square about maybe tweaking the retail focus there to maybe have more of an outlook -- outlet alignment.
Is that something you guys are seriously pursuing? Or is it still up in the air? Oh no absolutely I just talked about it in a couple of questions ago.
There's no question that when you think about that -- when you think about what's happening at Assembly you should envision outlets restaurants service theater [indiscernible] people living on top.
And I mean we're really excited about Assembly.
I wish the first phase yield was going to be through the roof if not but it'll be okay and we'll make money down the road.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler and Sons (sic) [Sandler O'Neill] L.P.</strong> Sandler O'Neill.
Don just want to go back to your comments on the tenant activity and I guess given your perspective that you guys have such a heavy D.C.
focus and obviously here in New York we're biased by the headlines that we read.
As you speak to your folks in the other markets so particularly in the West Coast and both in San Francisco and down south of -- and even in Chicago are there nuances that you hear like are the -- is it just sort of East Coast skittishness and once you leave maybe D.C.
New York the other markets you're not hearing that same skittishness? Or is that sort of pervasive across all your markets? No I think that's very fair.
We do have 1/3 of our company is in D.C.
It's been the best place to do business just -- no matter who's in power or what the administration is working on but there's no question that current talks make people say "Oh my gosh what's the impact going to be?" And much more so here Alex.
Those talks are much more here in the East Coast than -- certainly than in California.
But now when you kind of dig down into that a little bit I got to tell you short Washington D.C.
at your own peril.
That's all I would say because I mean a big reason we've been able to raise this dividend for 44 years in a row imagine what happened in Washington D.C.
And the portfolio even then -- even a bigger piece of the company it's only 30% or so.
Now it probably was half or more back then.
But think about 1976 1992 and all the things that have happened over the period of time when we raise that dividend every single year.
So with all the discussion of cutting back in Washington a lot of it has to do with cutting back on growth rates which I completely agree are not sustainable with respect to Washington.
But in the suburbs where we're operating it is -- all I would say is short it at your own peril.
I remain very very bullish on this market.
L.P.</strong> So when your leasing guys are telling you about their pace of activity the pace of activity remains healthy or has it slowed in any way that starts to make you concerned? I mean look at my leasing guy and to what he says.
Yes.
My response to that is I think there's great caution amongst the retail community in looking at quality assets.
They want quality over quantity.
And that's leading from our perspective that the optimism in our portfolio is up and we were -- we're feeling bullish about tenants looking at our portfolio and considering our assets so...
If you look at what's happened in the last quarter in Washington D.C.
we lead rent rollers in that market more than any other market except for Santana Row.
L.P.</strong> Okay so it sounds like it's safe to say that no one is holding up decisions.
Maybe it's slowed down a little but people are still carrying through.
Is that fair? Yes.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
Second question is Assembly Row there's obviously some government funds involved there.
Any other projects that you guys have that would require government funds? And then are you seeing any change in the way governments allocate capital? Maybe they're deciding to favor more housing projects or school projects or versus commercial projects.
Are you seeing any change in how they allocate those dollars? In order? No there really aren't any other projects where a TIF or the government subsidy as part of it is a significant part of the economics of a project other than Assembly Square for us.
Though -- I say that in every single market that we try to build something in we look for help from the local state primarily governments but we don't have any of that stuff going on right now other than Assembly.
And so really my comments are really kind of they're skewed by what we found at Assembly.
And we have not seen a change in the type of projects that government's are looking at but there's probably better people to ask than me.
Your next question comes from the line of R.J.
Milligan with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but looking at some of your competitors they're pursuing more nonretail tenants for their traditional shopping centers.
So I was wondering how aggressively you're looking at that option.
And two just an update on your strategy to pursue the traditional mall and outlet center tenants.
R.J.
let me give you the first thing.
First of all everyone of us in this business tries to create demand as best we can over the supply.
Now you know and I know that the highest and best use of a retail center is for -- the objective is to get retail sales as high as you can because they feed on one another and allow you to pull rents.
That's always always always the first thing that we're trying to do great retailers that add to the balance of the center.
Now when there are no great retailers you look for alternatives.
And we have -- while we certainly have a couple of those locations in places where we'll look for nonretail users that's a really small part of this portfolio because what I said we are trying to get retail sales up throughout a portfolio and that's usually done much better with great retail tenants than with other uses.
What was the second part? Inc.</strong> On the -- bringing the traditional mall and outlet center tenants into the shopping centers.
Yes yes I mean I spent a little bit of time on this last time.
I called you about taking a guy out of GGP names Michael Khouri who has turned into a real important part of the leasing team here.
We are absolutely having success from the standpoint of improving our relationships getting relationships with mall and outlet tenants that we have not.
I told you all about Assembly.
But on the mall side meetings that we've -- frankly we haven't had before and lots of serious conversations about getting mall tenants into some of our properties.
Now we've got 1 or 2 success stories but I suspect in the next 12 months I'll be able to tell you about some pretty good ones pretty sizable ones.
Inc.</strong> Are they concentrated in any specific category? Or can you talk about which tenants...
Not category as much as product as much as retail types.
So the Avenue at White Marsh which we own more of a lifestyle center for Pete's sake.
We're getting some great traction if you will on improving the merchandising base from talking to mall-side tenants.
Bethesda Row.
Certainly at Santana Row you'll see it in -- certainly you'll see it full blown at Assembly Square.
So it is less the as you would imagine less the traditional gross [indiscernible]  Stuff and more the higher end product that we have especially the mixed-use product that we're having the most success in.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
What do you envision for the Border space at Santana Row given that it's a such a marquee space? And Don you talked about rolling rents up on -- potentially on the Borders and Blockbuster space.
But can you give sort of a better sense for the mark-to-market as well as the potential timing of re-leasing given you've already had pretty extensive conversations with other retailers at this point? Yes I think so.
I mean I don't want to give you the kind of -- there's absolutely a lead tenant at -- for the Border space at Santana that I'm just thrilled about if we can get the deal done.
But the deal is not done yet.
It takes its time to go through the traps.
But on the 3 that are close today which is Friendship do we have a [indiscernible]? It's not signed yet but [indiscernible].
Okay I'm really close really close on one for the Friendship Center.
The space that will be 20% better frankly than what was in there.
I mean that's pretty darn strong.
For Old Town Los Gatos we're going to break that space up a little bit.
It's 2-floor space so we'll break it up.
The combination should provide us pretty good rent compared to what was there.
At Santana Row I would expect to see a significant increase.
So those are really good.
The fourth one which is still operating which is Wynnewood we're just not as far in knowing how we're going to replace that one and that'll be closer to flat or maybe even down a little.
But overall I can't really give you a percentage yet but it's double digits.
And then the -- I think your -- the occupancy that you provided your lease percentage what's your physical occupancy at June 30? And would you anticipate that the gap between the leased percentage in the physical occupancy could potentially widen for a period of time as the Borders and Blockbuster space commences occupancy? So basically could there be a lag in revenues from the time that...
Oh absolutely absolutely because you're right on it.
And I mean we've got a physical occupancy [indiscernible].
Yes Christy it's 92.7% physical occupancy as of June 30.
Okay because I think you mentioned in your prior comments that the leased percentage from some of the space should start to pick up towards year end and I'm wondering if maybe we'll see the revenue impact in 2012 instead.
You'll see -- oh yes it won't be '11.
I mean you'll see a little bit in '12 and you'll see a lot more in '13.
And there's no question there's a lag no question at all.
I mean and what that -- it was not coincidental that I was talking about leased percentage.
Because what we do see -- we're in the middle of -- the amount of activity that's going on in Chris Weilminster's office and among his team right now is dramatically higher than it was 1 year ago.
And that's all in getting deals done.
Now getting deals done as you say rightly put out does not equate to rental income starting that day.
And so there's clearly a lag.
That lag though will take so you'll see -- I think you'll start to see an increasing leased percentage but then the following increase in physical occupancy and therefore rent paying following 6 months behind that.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Clark with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> It seems like that you're taking an increased look at California today.
What is it about California that's attractive especially given the specific economic issues at the state level? It's probably the specific economic issues at the state level.
That makes it attractive at some respect.
And I only say that a little bit tongue-in-cheek.
I mean the bottom line is after going through the last 5 years you'll never ever convince me that poor properties will -- are a better long-term investment than the better properties in the right locations.
I know we say that I know it sounds like I'm talking my book but I got to tell you I believe that through and through.
The long term I would always -- I'm going long on both Northern and Southern California for the next decade and probably longer after that.
And so the fact that things are a little messed up today or a lot messed up depending on your perspective within the fiscal situation of the state is something that is kind of interesting but not particularly concerning long term from the standpoint of the type of real estate that we'll look at there.
And when you look at something like a Santana Row or you look at something like a Third Street Promenade it is very hard for us not to believe that those properties aren't going to be worth more in fact significantly more in the next decade.
And to the extent we can take a shot out of the properties like that we would rather pay up on that than chase yields in a secondary market.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Don I just want to follow up I wanted to see if I could get the full aggregate numbers.
I think you talked about kind of acquisition costs marketing costs demo costs.
I guess it was being $0.02 last year or $0.06 greater this year.
Do you have just the aggregate numbers? Well definitely.
Melissa or Andy can help you more but $0.02 is $1.3 million and $0.06 is $3.7 million.
Yes Steve they are basically dead on top of there.
Okay.
And how do see those trending I guess Don as you kind of go into '12 and '13? I mean do those kind of stay flat and then tick down or they go higher before they go lower? They stay about flat in '12 and then they should go lower in '13.
Now if they don't it just means a lot of the great stuff which I hope is the answer.
But the point I was really making Steve is if you think about a steady-state of activity over some periods of times yes there's always variances where it's a little more it's a little less.
But 2011 activity over 2010 activity was so dramatically higher such that I'm -- that I felt like I needed to say it.
For a bunch of years I would never say because it's been about the same a little bit lower certainly in '09 and '10 than in the other days but not demonstrably.
In '11 and '12 because of what's going on with the 2 particular big projects and some of the smaller ones.
It's just it's worth talking about.
I wouldn't -- it almost has to be a peak in '11 and '12 being about the same and then being reduced after that because of the nature of -- the size and scope of Assembly and Mid-Pike.
And just to be clear these are all being expensed as opposed to capitalized is that correct? That's right.
That's what I'm saying that they're hitting the P&amp;L right now.
Okay okay.
Could you just talk a little bit about the office space? I know you had built some office space at Santana.
And I'm just curious it sounds like you've got more space to potentially build.
But how did that first building I guess up on Winchester how was that leasing? It's leasing.
I mean where are we now Dawn? We're 3.5 of the floors that are done.
I think we got a little bit left to go.
Those rents were far below where we had underwritten them in 2006.
So we yield a 6 or so on the building.
And I -- certainly I'd hope to yield an 8 or better.
But no the -- Silicon Valley if you're concerned about -- and it's not just offices -- it's any type -- If you're concerned about certain markets you should be very bullish about the valley for the next 2 or 3 or 4 years.
Job growth lots and lots of good stuff coming out of the tech center.
No I was actually more on the positive side thinking when would you start that next building.
And was there enough demand? And did the rents kind of make sense to start the next office building? Yes that's a great question and Jeff Berkes is going to answer that because we've been pushing on that.
Yes Steve we're working through plans on another building.
The rents aren't quite where they need to be but everything's trending in the right direction.
And like Don said we're seeing great job growth out here and the job growth is really coming from the larger better capitalized revenue-generating in most cases profitable tech companies unlike the last cycle.
And they're hiring a lot of people at high salary rates.
And we're going to continue to see that kind of trickle down through not just office space but hopefully restaurant sales or apartment rents and all that kind of stuff here in Santana.
But we're not quite there on rents being at the place they need to be to pull the trigger on a new office building getting close and headed in the right direction.
I mean are you greater than 10% away? Or would you say you're inside the 10%? It depends and it's a little bit hard to figure out right now because what's driving the market are the bigger users and the big blocks of space.
If you follow the office market out here at all the big blocks of space are rapidly disappearing.
And when there is a big requirement what somebody will pay for the right space is a little bit up in the air.
So plus or minus 10% is probably about right but you don't really know until you're in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Andy the first question I have for you is on the Borders that you lost in the second quarter and Blockbusters I guess as well the timing of those -- when rents stopped on those so that we can think about the impact on the third quarter? Yes Rich they will really to end at Q1.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So they were in the entire second quarter -- or rather they were out the entire second quarter? They were out.
Out correct.
LLC</strong> Yes got you got you.
Okay and then as far as the balance on the line of credit is that something you'll pay down over time with the ATM you think? Or will you do something larger to term out that $200 million balance on line of credit? Yes.
I mean Rich we got a couple of things.
I mean Don talked about the acquisition we want to see how that goes.
We've done okay by waiting.
We've got both the fixed income and the equity markets open to us -- obviously the equity markets are less open today than they were say 1 week ago.
We feel like we're in a great position which is we've got great access to capital.
We would certainly anticipate that we'd likely term out at least a portion of the line by year end but don't need to pick a direction right now.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But you wouldn't try to do that with the ATM right? That's just not sufficient.
But once again it depends on how...
No it's not sufficient Rich.
LLC</strong> Yes okay I just want to make sure.
And then also I wanted to ask you on the asset you got on Newbury Street or that you bought on Newbury Street this quarter which one was that one? Rich the address is 328 Newbury Street.
It's on the last block if you will which is the block where you'd see a lot of the more fashion-forward and trendy retailers.
We bought with our operating partner Taurus Urban Meritage an 8 200 square foot building.
And what's interesting about the deal during the -- during our due diligence period our operating partner was able to negotiate a lease termination with a tenant that took a significant amount of the building in a below market rent and wasn't performing.
There's a couple other smaller tenants in there that have shorter term leases.
So effectively what we've got is a vacant single tenant building which is one of the types of spaces that are most in demand for the cutting edge retailers who are out looking to fill the whole building.
So it will be a nice little acquisition.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Just a quick question.
What was the cap rate on the Feasterville sale? Low 7s Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
I know you don't really want to talk about El Segundo too much but just I was just wondering taking into account transaction costs and sort of the low -- and the price that you're going to have to pay to get a quality asset like that I mean should we expect must accretion in FFO if that deal were to close in year 1 I guess in year 1.
You should not expect accretion in year 1 you should expect accretion in beyond that.
And then just on Assembly Row I mean I know the bids are still out there so it's not completely finalized.
But what's the remaining risk on that? If the bids come in quite a bit higher than what the MTA's committed I guess that there was some chance that that wouldn't go forward is that correct? Yes no there is -- I don't really know how to handicap that.
I do believe there is still a risk of that.
I'd be crazy to say that that can't happen given the work that's out there.
I do think we've got the financing set up pretty darn well so it's certainly not likely.
It's not remote either.
Can you just remind us though what the MTA's commitment is and then what would sort of make it maybe a question mark in your mind as far as the bids coming in? Yes well in total Dawn go through the numbers.
What do we got? In total there's $50 million to $60 million of funding out there for the T-Stop.
And the $50 million is the number we've got we're shooting for in terms of where a breakpoint might be for whether there's more money out there hard to say or where we may go forward.
Okay.
But the yields that you're sure of showing in that 5% to 7% range assume the $50 million to $60 million.
It assumes the $50 million covers it so that the fee is fully covered by the public funding available.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Could you just talk about El Segundo relative to the shops at Carlsbad in terms of...
No no I'm not going to do that.
I'm not going to do that now Nate.
I'm really sorry but I'm going to put you off on that.
And once we have this thing in better shape I'll be able to do in as much time as you want but I don't want to do a comparison on that property right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Did you pursue that? We did.
At this time sir there are no further questions.
You may continue.
Thanks everybody.
We'll see you next quarter.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Federal Realty Investment Trust Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be with a listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the call.
This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce the conference leader Ms.
[Katrina Lenox].
Maam you may begin.
Good morning.
Id like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realtys third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Don Wood Dawn Becker Andy Blocher Jeff Berkes and Chris Weilminster.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our third quarter 2011 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the Trusts operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realtys future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Ill now turn the call over to Don Wood to begin the discussion of our third quarter results.
Don? Thanks [Katrina] and good morning everyone.
At $1.01 of FFO per share reported during the second quarter compared with $0.95 last year 6% growth were very pleased with our operating performance thus far in 2011.
In fact when you look at the nine months ended September 30th compared with that same period last year youll note FFO per share of 3.02 this year compared with 2.87 last year 5.2% growth.
That comes without any occupancy gains.
In fact comes with occupancy declined because of the Board is in blockbuster liquidations and it comes with a weighted average interest rate largely fixed portfolio wide of 5.9%.
That rate is above todays long-term rates with a well added maturity schedule over the next decade providing strong cushion against rising rates when that eventually come someday but also some shorter term upside as we continue to find refinancing opportunities.
The other full growth that weve experienced this year is encouraging and suggests that we should hit or beat the $4 share mark for the full year in 2011 for the first time in our history.
Let me say a few things about the three other key operating metrics in the portfolio.
Internal growth lease rollovers and occupancy.
Not only was FFO per share strong but so was our internal growth at 2.4% excluding development and 3.7% including it.
Continued and steady overall rent increases portfolio wide supplemented by what weve seen as a continuing trend of favorable bad debt expenses year-over-year with the two biggest factors affecting the same-store growth.
We particularly hope that the bad debt experience continues since to this point we dont see any overly worrisome signs and some debt ceiling debacle of 90 days ago.
Also benefiting the quarters internal growth were 10 deliveries that property is formally underdevelopment at places like 300 Santana row Hampden Lane in Bethesda the village of Shirlington and Escondido Promenade.
Lease rollover growth on comparable spaces was solid at 8% on a cash basis 18% straight line.
In all we signed 88 new or renewal leases for a total of 353 000 feet at an average first year cash rent of $31.62 compared with 29.24 for the last year of the expiring leases.
A couple of CVS drugstore renewals at Gaithersburg Square and Laurel shopping center in Suburban Maryland and a strong leasing quarter Bethesda Row and Third Street Promenade in Santa Monica underpinned the leasing for the quarter.
On a year-over-year basis we once again report a decrease in occupancy given the 130 000 square foot of borders and blockbuster closings that were inevitable.
As I said in my remarks last quarter the closing of all four borders locations in all of our remaining blockbuster video stores in the second and third quarters couldnt help but bring down occupancy.
We came in at 93.3% leased roughly the same as at the end of second quarter but down 60 basis points for the 92.9% leased that we reported in the comparable period last year virtually all due to those retailers.
Our borders locations Wisconsin Ave in Washington DC Santana Row Old Town Los Gatos California and Wynnewood Pennsylvania on Philadelphia Main lines are all A Plus locations and it wont be hard to release them at strong rents.
Preferred on the road in tenant discussions on most of them are other signs at this point.
Physical occupancy trail percentage lease by 110 basis points reflecting the significant tenant build out activity that we have underway three new super markets are under construction the fresh market at Congressional Plaza Bostons market at Rockville town square and a new great grocery at Westgate mall as of two new LA fitness gyms at Quince Orchard and Laurel Shopping Center.
Rent starts on these and other build outs will provide new strong rental income streams with residual benefits on the respective shopping centers beginning in 2012.
All in all portfolio is performing beautifully and weve got a lot going on trying to strengthen our merchandising by transitioning important spaces throughout the portfolio from the tenants of the past to those that will generate new and higher sales level for many years to come.
The Right grocer the right health club the right soft goods merchant has always meant a lot when it comes to shopping center performance and thats truer today than it ever has been before.
Okay.
A few minutes on where we are allocating capital these days.
And lets start with the three big development opportunities.
A bit more than $100 million of residential development at Santana Row roughly $150 million in retail development in the first phase of the assembly row not including of course AvalonBays apartment investment and $250 million in mixed use development at Mid-Pike primarily residential from here on in by the way were calling Mid-Pike Pike &amp; Rose.
All in $500 million worth of capital can be expanded between today and 2015 earning a blended return of somewhere between 7 and 8 expected upon stabilization.
Refining continues on each specific property but these are the numbers were going to use for planning purposes at this point.
At Santana Row the first smaller building is completed with the first tenants moving in last month.
At this point 60 of the 108 unit are leased at average rent of $2.76 a foot and hopefully to be fully leased by the full quarter of 2012.
Approximately at the same time that well begin construction on the next and larger building that building known as 8B internally will cost $70 million and will include 215 units and a 350 stall parking garage.
At assembly row we have a very real and improved project.
Its for the new tenant -- new transit station came in within the required funding range and the MBTA board approved the contract for construction of the assembly square key station.
Construction of both the station and the mixed-use product is expected to commence in a few months and deliver in late 2013 or more likely early 2014 with the T-Stop opening about a year later.
Retail interest for our 315 000 square foot first phase from both outlet tenants and restaurants is particularly strong and a great theater deal is well on its way.
We have very high hopes for the first of its kind mixed-use outlet and entertainment destination.
And finally at Mid-Pike we expect to begin construction in the summer of 2012 on the first phase of mixed-use development.
First phase will transform a portion of the existing center into 156 000 square feet of retail 87 000 square feet of office and 484 rental units in a rebrand and all be rebranded as Pike &amp; Rose signifying its well-known location at the corner of Rockville Pike and Montrose Parkway.
Pike &amp; Rose will be developed in at least four phases over the next 10 years and while we are likely to bring an office and perhaps residential partners for future phases we intend to do the entire 250 million first phase without partners.
Lets move on to acquisitions but first small but significant disposition.
You might remember that we acquired three small buildings on Newbury Street in Boston within the last 18 months in hopes of growing our presence there dramatically by getting the opportunity to own a large portfolio there controlled by Anglo-Irish Bank.
We had hoped to deal with Anglo-Irish Bank directly and avoid having the portfolio grow to a broad public marketing process.
It didnt work out that way.
The portfolio was marketed publicly and not surprisingly found lots of interest.
The portfolio was sold to a foreign back fund at a price we are unwilling to pay.
Accordingly we have little interest in maintaining our three small buildings on Newbury Street and sold them to the same buyer as the larger portfolio.
Sales price was nearly double our cost 18 months ago.
And youll see the $12 million gain on sale in the future quarter.
Cap rate paid was well below 4% on 2011 trailing NOI and barely 4% at 2012 forecasted NOI.
Is just another example of a growing number of investors view of the potential for great mixed use real estate in the countrys best markets.
Let me spend my final minutes here on the Plaza El Segundo acquisition and an adjacent development site.
One of the most complicated and time consuming deals weve ever made federal was able to agree to acquire a controlling interest in 381 000 square foot landmark retail property and a 100% interest in an adjacent development site at the corner of Sepulveda Boulevard and Rosecrans Avenue in El Segundo California just two miles south of LAX.
Property serves the affluent communities of Manhattan Beach El Segundo and Hermosa Beach among others.
Its a big deal for our west coast presence and for our leasing which now includes such trophy properties as Santana Row key assets on Third Street Promenade Old town Los Gatos and now Plaza El Segundo.
Those are high profile destinations our complimented by strong necessity based west coast properties like Escondido Promenade Westgate Mall and the Galaxy Building in Hollywood among others.
Okay.
Lets start at Plaza El Segundo with the development site since its easier to understand.
Eight acres on the hard corner of Rosecrans and Sepulveda existing entitlements for 70 000 square feet of retail and restaurants are in place and make us optimistic that we can make a development deal $40 million or so pencil on the site.
We would expect to be in a position to get started on that development within the year from now.
Next door on the 37 acres housing Plaza El Segundo theres three distinct sections of this asset.
A 273 000 square foot community center called the Plaza anchored by Whole Foods Best Buy Home Goods and Dicks then there is a 53 000 square foot lifestyle center called the collection featuring Anthropology H&amp;M JCrew and others and finally a 55 000 square foot specialty center called the Edge featuring small shops restaurants and other service users.
Together this is the definition of a dominant retail district that will get all that much better with the redevelopment of the Adjacent Hard Corner.
While the deal structure is complex and were not closed yet we expect to close by the end of the year understand that we will be entitled to roughly 75% of the cash flow thrown off by Plaza El Segundo in exchange for the assumption of $175 million secured loan on the property with an above average market rate of 6.4% that matures in six years along with our equity investment of $8 or $9 million.
The deal will be slightly accretive to earnings in 2012 it will be more so in 2013 we expect at least an 8% ten year unlevered IRR on this property.
This is the kind of deal weve been looking for.
One where we can use the strength of our balance sheet and work out a deal structure that both works for the current owners and gives us control and true A+ real estate where we can really add value over time.
As I said the deal is expected to close by year end.
Now we will open the line to your question once we go through Andys remarks.
All right.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
First of all I hope you all will welcome [Christina] to our team when see her in a couple of weeks over here.
Im going to put a little finer point on our third-quarter results talk to you about how we are positioned to pay for all the acquisition and development activity that Don discussed provide a few comments on our improved guidance for 11 and our initial guidance for 12 before we turning the call over to your questions.
But first I want to point you to page 16 of our supplemental where we once again expanded our future redevelopment pipeline disclosure.
As one of the very few retail REITs with a significant near-term development pipeline this disclosure should help you to better understand the scope timing cost return and potential value creation for your models.
We have a half $1 billion of projects in process that we expect to stabilize between now and 2015 at Pike &amp; Rose Santana Row and Assembly Row including expanded first phase scope for Assembly Row from what we disclosed last quarter.
Entitlements at these properties will allow for additional investments beyond the current scope we outlined in our disclosure which together with our bread and butter redevelopment and core operations are all key components for future value creation for the trust.
Turning to results FFO was up 8.6% on an absolute basis and 6.3% on a per-share basis.
Same center property operating income came in at 2.4% excluding redevelopments and 3.7 including redevelopment one of the highest levels of internal growth we have experienced since the start of the downturn despite the occupancy declines that Don mentioned.
We have been able to post strong same center and FFO per share growth as a result of solid leasing execution of our redevelopment projects an appropriate focus on collections and expense control on a straightforward quarter with no adjustments or accounting invoice.
Getting into few of the details rental income increased 3.5% from last years third quarter.
Similar to last quarter rental income increases came from the core same center portfolio from our redevelopment properties and also from our acquisitions of Huntington Square and Tower Shops offset somewhat by the sale of Feasterville.
Other property income declined about $0.5 million versus third quarter 2010 from continued lower lease term fees.
On a year-to-date basis other property income was off over $4 million largely from the significant lease term fee from Home Depot with Flourtown recognized in the first quarter 2010.
I promise next quarters is last time I will bring up the Home Depot lease term fee.
Rental expense is again benefited from better year-over-year bad debt expenses to the tune of about $0.01 per share this quarter as well as from the buyout of the ground leases under Bethesda Row and Pentagon in late 2010.
A portion of this ground benefit is offset by higher interest expense when you get to FFO.
Interest expense declined $1.5 million versus third quarter 10 benefiting from a 35 basis point year-over-year decline in weighted average rate partially offset by higher weighted average balances.
G&amp;A was up 1.3 million versus third quarter 10 coming from personnel costs including new leasing and acquisitions hires as well as expensed acquisition and development costs.
Our solid year-to-date results and positive fourth quarter outlook allowed us to increase our 2011 FFO per share guidance to a range of four or two to four.
Turning to balance sheet for a moment we issued another $49.2 million of equity under the ATM at a net price of 85.35 per share in the third quarter bringing our total for the year to $139.3 million.
We remain in very solid shape to fund appropriate acquisition redevelopment and development activities through the fixed income bank and equity markets at attractive pricing levels.
Weve recently agreed on terms for a new $200 million seven year unsecured term loan with P&amp;C and Capital One as lead banks that we hope to close in late November.
We expect the rate in the 3.5% range on this financing.
Proceeds will be utilized to term out our current line of credit exposure and to support development and acquisition spend.
We hope to bring in additional lenders through this indication to potentially upsize the deal but have secured commitments for the full $200 million from our leads which really limits our execution risk.
This term loan execution provides an attractive alternative to the seven year unsecured notes market with a better rate to the tune of about 75 to 100 basis points.
Greater prepayment flexible and also the ability to fill a hole in our current debt maturity schedule for 2018.
Upon closing we do anticipate swapping our LIBOR exposure on this deal to fixed rates eliminating our interest rate raise risk on the transaction.
While we currently have the deal sized to $200 million to the extent we can grow that size wed expect to upsized to take advantage of this very attractively priced capital.
After executing the term loan well have full availability on our $400 million revolver with great access to other forms of capital and no debt no debt maturities until mid-2012.
This type of financing combined with our steady use of equity proceeds provides an appropriate balance of long-term capital to fund the right long-term assets at appealing loan rates.
Were keeping our balance sheet metrics at conservative levels providing the capacity to take on additional leverage to support the right future acquisition opportunities just like were doing with Plaza El Segundo.
And allowing us to be opportunistic with respect to the timing and form of future capital raising.
Some key points to note in our increased 11 guidance include.
Were revising our full-year same-store property operating income guidance up to 1.5% previously we had been at one to 1.5%.
Were assuming a December 2011 close on Plaza El Segundo and have already expensed about 800 000 in closing costs throughout the year through the third quarter.
Remaining closing costs to be recognized in the fourth quarter are included in our 11 guidance range.
With the exception of the new term loan to pay down the revolver all of our previous assumptions remain generally unchanged.
We do have another big acquisition opportunity that isnt quite tied up yet that has some potential to close before year end.
Any acquisitions costs which could be material could absolute cause us to miss our estimate if that was to happen but once again a great long-term deal.
As for 2012 we feel pretty good that we can give you some decent visibility based on the quality of our portfolio and the stability of our business.
As a result we established 2012 FFO per share guidance at 416 to 422 representing a solid 4% FFO per diluted share growth at the midpoint.
Here are couple things to consider when updating your models.
Major contributors to the 2012 same center growth include stabilization of the 108 unit residential development at Santana Row 60 and the impact from lease up at 300 Santana Row.
The three new grocers and two new health clubs that Don discussed these positives are somewhat offset by portion of Mid-Pike being taken out of service to make way for the Pike &amp; Rose development as well as some vacancy in [Denver] and Huntington Square Shopping Center Im sorry at the Huntington Shopping Center associated with strong return earning opportunity.
These major drivers combined with occupancy in the flat to up 50 basis point range as well as our bread and butter rollover provides the basis for our expectation of same center growth in the 3% range for 2012.
Plaza El Segundo adds about a penny or two a benefit to 2012 FFO per share result.
Lease up have some vacancy at Plaza El Segundo will provide additional accretion in 2013 as will the future development of the adjacent parcel further in the future.
G&amp;A should be relatively flat in 12 compared to 11.
Interest expense will reflect the $175 million of debt assumed in the PDS acquisition as well as a new $200 million term loan at a rate in the 3.5% range as I said earlier.
To the extent that were able to upsize the term loan the increased interest expense is not contemplated in our guidance nor is additional usage of the ATM throughout the year.
Interest expense increases to be somewhat offset by increased capitalize interest as we progress at Santana Row Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose.
Consistent with prior years were not including any acquisition activity other than Plaza El Segundo in guidance though as I said earlier we have other potential opportunities in the pipeline based on the timing of these acquisitions and the magnitude of the closing costs these acquisitions could benefit or hurt our 2012 guidance.
Another strong quarter great opportunities for both internal and external growth and an outlook for another year of record FFO per share in 2012.
Operator well now take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from line of Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
You may proceed.
Thank you.
I mean it looks like -- likely that landlords are going to be exempt from the accounting standard changes they require companies to capitalize real estate on their balance sheet.
But Im wondering are you do you have any concern that the retailers may change their lease term? Or you know the renewals regarding this balance sheet issue? In conversations that weve had we dont see anything at this point which would indicate any predict or changes.
Obviously the lease accounting stuff is still subject to change.
Weve been watching it but we dont have anything permanent at this point.
Yeah.
I dont think so Craig.
You know its -- the one thing on the rule changes that is always theres lobbies on both sides and theres probably three or four sides in terms of some specifics in there that should be -- that are being contested.
Nobody really knows exactly where its going to fall out.
And I just had an update on this last week.
And so kind of feel like I understand why nobody is changing their way of thinking yet.
They could and so with uncertainty it always makes me worry about it a little bit but I dont think there will be anything significant.
So the thought here being the retailers will do whats right for their business and not worry about the accounting implications? Thats the thought yeah.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah.
Our next question comes from line of Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
I appreciate the extra disclosure on the mixed use project.
So I just want to ask kind of about one other one which I know has gone back and forth of being a potential big project of yours at Tysons.
There has been a lot of talk about kind of the densification around the metro and I mean -- and I know I think youve sort of extended some leases there.
But I mean have you given more thought about that as kind of adding to the pipeline of mixed use projects over this horizon that youve provided or...? Thats a great question Paul.
I mean it is an amazing piece of land.
Youre right in referring back to -- I think it was actually the TJ Maxx deal that we extended -- that we did a 10 year deal on we couldnt give them uncertainty.
They were thinking about leaving the property to get that kind of certain.
There certainly was a lack of certainty in terms of what would happen in Tysons over the next period of time.
And so we were able to lock them down very financially lucratively to us.
And we did that to kind of watch and see what happens over there.
Paul and you know the area its amazing that with all the construction thats going on over there with all the different plans that are coming in with our center kind of sitting right at one of the stops on that line.
Even with entrances close and everything else our -- that center continues to perform amazingly well.
We want to see what else happens though.
Theres a lot on the dockets for potential project but how many of them really make and what they really turn out to be I want more visibility.
Thats why its not on any of the next two or three year -- in the next two or three year timeframe in terms of development opportunities.
Absolutely long-term there is a lot of money to be made on that piece of land that we have there.
But nothing I can -- in any way get you to give me any credit for in the next few years.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just a follow-up on the term loan Andy you said it was 75 did I get this right 75 to 100 basis point inside of what you would do on the unsecured? Is that -- if thats right I mean is your thoughts taking on that change given the execution from the deal last night any unsecured market.
Yeah.
In the Boston properties deal actually I think it made me feel better about our executions.
Certainly Boston properties did a big deal.
I mean wed be talking about probably a non-index eligible size and it goes just beyond rate.
It goes to the prepayment flexibility associated with the term loan.
And Ive got and executed term sheet so the only thing Im really subject to at this point is ultimate size and the current swap market.
So I still think that were probably in the 75 basis point better rate at this point.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from line of Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
You may proceed.
Good morning guys.
And Ill echo the appreciation for the improved disclosure.
Just more of a on the macro question first Don how do you think right now about just net absorption of the industry over the next few years? Because theres a real churn going on with retailers rationalizing not only store counts but store size.
And thats coming among this or amidst this backdrop of the risk of roll-down in rents and leases are executed really during the peak periods the five to seven-year leases that were signed say between 05 and 07.
How do you think about it Ill call it industry wide revenue growth out there and...? Yeah.
Its challenge Jeff.
I mean look youre right onto it.
The positives that go along with that is that there is so little development of new product thats going on in the country that that naturally puts a constraint on if you will on retailers that do want to head into new markets and do stuff like that.
I do think its kind of funny that were talking about $500 million worth of development between -- albeit much of it residential at Santana Mid-Pike and Assembly over the next few years because theres just not very much new product being developed in the country thats a positive.
Thats one of the positives.
The other positive is the selective -- is very selective and that is we continue to see theres real distinction between great quality real estate and other.
Is it good for federal because of the selection of our properties that gives us more leverage than others? Sure.
Is it good for the country? No its not.
They are really this haves and have-nots delineation is a bit troublesome for me in this --to the extent that were seeing it.
I mean Andy the capital were talking about raising you in the term loan the lease deals that were doing and the roles even the development some of the markets that were in is so completely 180 degrees from whats happening broadly as you put it in the macro market for all the good reasons of you know online sales online store sales smaller footprints smarter business operations.
And so on balance I mean I dont think there is -- you really got to be careful where you are investing.
And Im very thankful that were on the positive end of that.
Thats what I say Im with you.
There are concerns.
Specific to your portfolio do you have an estimate or are you able to estimate maybe how pervasive some of those thoughts could be for your portfolio? Meaning anchors downsizing their prototype might leave you with some awkward spaces? Or conversely some of your shop space thats going to be rolling in 12 or 13 do you -- are you concerned at certain points in the cycle where you say -- we might have some issue here in ahead or? Nothing specific nothing you know particularly -- nothing particularly pervasive.
One of the things that I think Andy talked about and I mentioned in the results this reduction in bad debt expense really is an interesting -- its an interesting phenomenon.
I think the tenants that are in there now who have survived through the 09 and 10 period of time are okay.
I do worry that in certain markets to the extent -- thats what Ive been looking for changes to the extent the economy really stays as average as it is right now I think well be okay.
But to the extent we had to head south from here yeah I absolutely worry about small shop failings and having anchor space thats not prime anchor space being at stronger rents.
I mean it all gets down to relative.
The cool thing about Federal is that you really do see all different kinds of retail within this portfolio.
And we can clearly see in our secondary markets markets that are secondary to us a much different set of prospects for the future than in the great stuff.
And I can only imagine if the portfolio was more was not as high quality a portfolio what those challenges are day-in and day-out.
Just another a question or two I recognize this is a complete lay-up question but many of your competitors have changed their reporting metric where they exclude spaces vacant over one year from their calculations in same-store.
For comparability purposes if you were to do the same do you have a sense of what your same-store leasing spreads would look like? Or is that? I dont maybe -- Andy may.
But let me just say something about that because I think thats smart.
I think for an analyst to understand the companies that theyre looking at I think its very useful to see -- to not make sure the whole portfolio is tainted by a few places that are very tough to lease.
So I think thats good analytical information thats given.
What I think it says though is because there is a need to do that -- its got to be valued differently obviously.
But its not that its a bad thing to exclude those spaces that have been vacant for over 12 months.
I mean its important analytical information.
I think if we were to do it the impact would probably be a lot smaller.
Andy you do have? Jeff I pulled it.
Its about I mean on a cash basis its 300 basis points so it brings up from 8 to 11 and 400 basis point on a straight line.
Thats helpful.
Just last topic its actually on the Newberry Street I know that that portfolio ended up trading hands.
Can you just talk about maybe where pricing sort out on that? And I think you guys are out of Newberry Street now just maybe talk about what your total return was on your investment? Its a big old number.
I mean listen I dont want to -- the buyer of that portfolio can talk much better than we can talk in terms of what their rationale is what their thoughts were with respect to the portfolio.
I can tell you for our small three buildings that we had a basis of $24 million that we paid literally in the last 18 months and they sold for $44 million.
Do the math.
Its pretty strong.
Thanks guys.
Next question comes from line of RJ Milligan of Raymond James.
You may proceed.
Thank you guys.
My question has been answered.
Thanks RJ.
Next question comes from Nathan Isbee of Stifel Nicolaus.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
Hi Nat.
In addition to the adjacent land part at the Plaza can you talk about maybe some of the opportunities at the property itself perhaps in the parking field et cetera? Yeah.
Well a couple things.
First of all the opportunities I think are more leasing driven.
In the other three pieces.
And Jeff is on the phone hes going to reply to this.
Im setting up Jeff because your next on this.
I believe that the opportunities are far more on the releasing side there than they are with additional development.
I can tell you though if you been to the site there is lots going on directly around it not only our adjacent piece but some additional pieces even going forward.
It is the most -- it is the true definition of an A+ location though.
And so Im hopeful that you will see an upside in the rents over the years as the primary benefit.
Jeff you got have anything else to say? No Don I think you hit it.
Nat theres no plans additional GLA on the Plaza El Segundo side.
Certainly as Don mentioned in his opening remarks were getting development title along with it and you know through some leasing on the existing improvements and development -- on the development side thats where we see the growth going forward.
Okay.
But just focusing on the rent for a second where would you peg rents relative to market? Don do want to answer that you always take that question.
I thought you had it.
Im sorry man.
Yeah.
I mean were -- theres not a huge margin to market Nat but long-term thats an area where theres going to be income growth and sales growth and we see upside in the rent medium to long-term.
But there is -- the property came online in 2006 2007 so there is not 2005 2006 was not a huge in place mark-to-market on the inflation.
Jeff can you talk about the replacement for the Borders space? Yeah.
Borders when we looked at the deal initially Borders was in occupancy actually doing pretty well paying up decent rent.
And since we tied it up weve been able to release that space.
The tenant will take occupancy in 2012 and the rent they paid was very aggressive and very close to what Borders was paying.
So I think that validates the location and validates our ability to grow rents over the long-term.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just one follow-up arguably if you had a Mom-and-Pop retailer today who was looking to open a business they want to come to a high quality center like a Federal Center would you -- have you seen any firming up or any signs that the small business is looking to open new concepts new stores? Yeah.
I think so.
Now that again is very bifurcated.
So when I think about Bethesda or when I think about Santana I can tell you our list of interested small shops some national small shops and some regional not so much the first store kind of stuff that you see in a really growing economy Nat but where youve got two or three or four stores and you would like to expand they want to get into Santana they want to get into Bethesda that kind of thing.
We have seen that and were continuing to see that with our new leasing team on the West Coast with Jeff Kreshek I talked about last time I mean the list he has of particular tenants that we are going after specifically who have the desire and the ability to make a move like that is stronger than its been in the last couple of years.
Now part of it is because Silicon Valley is strong.
And in that particular market theres a lot going on but I see the same thing -- same type of thing in Bethesda.
Its just not everywhere.
And thats -- thats a whole -- there is one message here.
Its not -- theres nothing Im saying that is consistent across United States of America its really very bifurcated.
And I think we had discussed this probably six months ago and at that point you had replied to negative.
So I guess there is definitely has been an improvement in that sense.
I think thats right.
And maybe just because I just came from a board meeting in San Jose over the last two days I felt so so damn good about whats happening in northern California with our properties there.
Maybe it is a little halo over me.
Got you.
All right.
Thanks.
Next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler ONeill.
You many proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Hey Alex.
Just in general and this is a leasing question clearly a few of the tenant who is sort of -- its clear that theyre about to go under Im sure the leasing guys are out busy talking to back sell tenants but in broader speaking how much of a wait list do you guys maintaining in general for the portfolio? Is it just people who are on your watch list? Or do you sort of keep sort of a wait list for each space? Hey Chris.
Do you want to go through leasing with him? Sure.
I mean I would say Alex that it varies from property to property as Alex was mentioning we have got properties like the Bethesda and Santana Row where there is maybe theres a wait list of certain tenant that want to be into those and then there is some of the growth ranker centers more traditional locations where we are very specific category that we are going out after and pursuing those tenant.
So were creating the wait list.
And so my answer is that theres not -- it really varies from asset to asset.
But in general when some of these bankruptcies come up and make the news headlines by the time we read about it in the press.
Im assuming that you guys have sort of already caught wind or are any of these like legitimately a surprise where suddenly you have to go out and figure out put together a back fill list? No.
We have a watch -- we I was just going to say that we are very diligent about watching the performance of our retailers.
And I think weve got great leads on the ones that we see as being weak and weve got a long hit list and are very disciplined in how were approaching the retailers that we think would improve our tenant mix to back all those spaces so were very proactive about it.
Don I dont know if you want to add.
And thats the case of most of the time Alex I got to tell you we absolutely gets surprised.
I mean the most recent one that just comes to mind is Priscilla of Boston which is a piece of Davids Bridal and they have decided as a company to not go forward after frankly having just signed a lease with us and a few more across the country.
In Board meetings things happen sometimes that are not out in the -- just not out in the street and that was an example.
Thats rare and Chris is exactly right.
By the time -- its no surprise that Filenes Basement is closing up.
And in the two locations that we have for Filenes one at Mid-Pike which is all about the redevelopment so no problem no issue no -- nothing.
Thats going to be rebuilt as the new project.
And the other one in Fresh Meadows Queens we do have very strong interest and weve been talking about that space.
Now we couldnt do anything until something happens but now some things happening there.
So well way down the road which is your implication because we anticipate.
Okay.
And then the second question is Nat I jumped on late so I apologize if Andy already went over this.
But you guys have now boosted guidance this year twice clearly done it was your comp package that affected this year there were some vacancies that affected this year.
But still you guys have now boosted guidance twice this year? So is that either one just Andy being conservative to make sure it hit numbers or two its just the folks in the field just working extra hard that the portfolio has outperformed? No.
Its neither.
Its neither Alex.
I think the single biggest thing that changed that there is no doubt in my mind that the economy was getting better.
In the first part of 2011 into the middle of 2011.
And when you set up budgets and when you set up guidance basically November this time of year for the ensuing year you use what you think about the time the indications that you see.
I think things actually got significantly better from the latter part of 2010 into the first half of 2011.
What I was curious -- and that -- theres a lag.
So that finds its way into guidance when those things start being real and not just a gut feeling.
And thats what happened in 2011.
Its why when we started with the whole debt ceiling debate federally in July August and September the way things were pulling through I mean Im worried or at least worry is not right -- Im looking hard at whether any of those  any of that time period is going to affect anybody future plans.
And so far we dont see signs of that.
It still seems pretty good pretty strong.
Now but thats the stuff that changes quarter-to-quarter in terms of outlook.
So I dont want you to look at that and say man we just sandbag all the time.
I mean we dont intentionally sandbag sometimes it turns out that we sandbag but certainly in 11 it was because of our better economy than we thought it would be.
And so bottom line this is the late summer pause didnt affect you guys? No.
Not to this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from line of Michael Mueller of J.P.
Morgan.
You may proceed.
Hi.
Is there any contractual option where you can get the other 25% of Plaza El Segundo? No.
Theres not.
And theres well be closed as I said before the end of the year and well be able to go into some more detail at the time with respect to the deal structure.
But no you should model and figure on the 75%.
Got it.
Okay.
And then Andy you were talking about acquisition costs.
Can you tell us what was embedded in Q3 and what the Q4 expectation is? Yeah.
I mean I think that in Q3 we had call it 2 or 300 and I think that to close out PS were looking at another 2 or 300.
And once again to the extent there other acquisition opportunities that we make a lot progress on that would be added to that.
Got it.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Michael.
Our next question comes from line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
You may proceed.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Just in terms of Andy I think you mentioned that there was another you reasonably sized acquisition that you are looking at.
Im just not sure if you can provide a little bit of detail as to what that might be and whether or not thats something similar to El Segundo where you have a development upside with it as well? I dont feel comfortable doing that yet Quen Im sorry.
The only thing I would say is it is  its large.
Its -- were talking about  we would be talking about something in the $150 million range for that kind of thing.
So its a big one.
But again thats either going to be zero or everything and without being on the contract we cant talk any more about it.
Okay.
Thats great.
Thank you.
Great.
Next question comes from the line of Chris Lucas of Robert Baird.
You may proceed.
Good morning guys.
Andy I do appreciate the improved disclosure and it has generated a question for you.
As it relates to the apartment projects in San Jose there is essentially same cost but theres a yield differential relative to the project thats delivering next year versus the one thats delivering in 14? I guess if you could sort of provide some context over around why both the cost will be the same for the -- even though the second project is larger and why the yields would be expected to be lower? Construction this is what Chris.
Construction costs are assumed to be higher in there.
They I mean we bought out this first one at the perfect time and thats the single biggest thing.
In addition just some of the nuances with respect to the parking and the other ancillary benefits that have to happen in that product anything else Dawn? Some of it is units mix too in terms of the types of units are getting in pricing for them? So youre looking at smaller units in the second project or? There is Yeah.
Yeah.
There are generally smaller units basically what were trying to do I dont know that when the last time you been out of Santana.
But you owe yourself a trip if you want feel good about kind of where were going with it.
Because the residential at Santana gets such a premium over the residential in the marketplace out there.
Were really making a focused effort on being able to have different price ranges for and different product available to all types of people who want to be in Santana.
Today you cant get into Santana for rent thats under 2 400 2 500 a month.
Something like that as youre starting spot.
This new building will be aiming for rent somewhere around 2 000 2 100 to start.
Now on a per square foot basis its actually more profitable stuff.
But the whole point is being able to choose where you want to live in Santana in a number of different types product types all premium but within the premium range different and more one bedrooms things like that.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot Don.
You bet.
Our next question comes from line of Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
You may proceed.
Hi guys.
Its actually Jeff Spector.
Just had a follow-up on Jeff Donnellys question before about the statistic that some companies are now reporting.
I guess excluding stores that havent been open for a year just thinking about that a little bit Don I guess thinking more important I guess how youre focusing on the business versus necessarily the analysts looking at statistic? Meaning from a business standpoint I guess when you look at the same-center NOI or same-store NOI store opening a year or not a year.
I mean from a business standpoint really at the end of the day whats the most important thing to you and to Federal? There is one thing that drives everything and its tenant sales.
And so literally everyday -- what we try to put through everybody is to create the tenant mix that is going to create highest level of sales.
Its really the only thing you have to push rent.
And so Jeffs question really about big box space that for which there is very little demand on is an analytical question basically.
Your question on the business is how do you do it and what are you running and Ive got to tell you were trying as you know to create an income stream that continues to grow each and every year.
And things that fall out of that are rent rollovers and same-store growth and that kind of stuff but those are derivative.
They come from the overall plan that we have to fill space with the best merchandise and it creates the highest tenant sales.
Its all weve got to be able to continue to push rents.
So thats the driver first and foremost.
Okay.
Thank you.
You bet.
Our next question comes from line of Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
You may proceed.
Thank you.
In the rush to assembly and the T-Stop I think there still little of uncertainty in terms of the potential cost to the T and what your share of it would be.
Would you be able to give us some numbers there? Yeah.
There is not -- theres not -- were in our piece of $15? $15.
Yeah.
No.
We unlocked at $15 million that is our piece of the T-Stop Cedrik.
My worry was that if the overall bid to do the T was significantly more than $15 million in total that that additional funding would not be available because we were going to put in any more.
And that didnt happen they did come in within the funding that they had set up including our $15 million and now just need the closing was AvalonBay which we have scheduled for mid-December to happen before construction starts.
Okay.
And if there were any cost overruns youre not responsible for anything above $15? No.
Thats not true.
If there are -- there is enough room in there to be able to absorb any conceivable costs overruns that have to the extent it is dramatically if it overruns dramatically it will be an issue.
And therell be Im sure well be back in that conversation about what well have to pay but I dont expect that to happen.
Okay.
And in terms of pre-leasing for your retail component you mentioned that you have some interest from outlets the theater and restaurants.
Do you have a firm number in terms of where youre at in terms of perhaps Letter of Intent or anything like that? Yeah.
Im not ready to start giving you the LOI stuff.
We will lay all that out if theres not one signed lease today nor do we expect there to be until 2012.
But over the next -- now that weve got it I know Ive been very conservative about whether we want to do this thing or not whether we want to whether we can make it work or whatever in the past.
Were at the point now where we are going and so theres a lot happening in terms of laying out the schedules laying out the merchandising plan we had conversations with tenants.
And so in future quarters Ill start doing it for you just like we would -- just like we will with Mid-Pike and Pike &amp; Rose and every where else as we do a development well get to that.
But Im not ready to that here in November of 11.
Okay.
And just last question and you were talking earlier about sales productivity being the key driver of rent.
And Im intrigued by the addition of health clubs as well as some of your centers.
Where do you fit in terms of desirability as a tenant versus perhaps other more traditional tenants that sell goods and are perhaps more in line with some of your tenants and the stores in the center in terms of commonality in the goods being sold? Well I dont know.
I mean it is part of health clubs are an important part of our tenant mix particularly at our mixed-use project because theyre real because its part of the neighbor theyre an integral part of the neighborhood in which were operating.
If you go to Santana Club One has now been operating there since 2002 when we open.
There an important piece of the activity that happens throughout the day at Santana.
When you go to Bethesda the Equinox that was opened up last year is an important part to generating activity in the restaurants thats being to serving the community.
And so that doesnt mean all health club operators are considered equal because theyre not.
And the strong companies the companies that have demonstrated the ability to be profitable within their spaces and fit in the neighborhoods that were in are -- its as important as any soft goods user or any other type of user in terms of its fit.
It  not are concern.
And as far as the rents are concerned are they rents comparable with what a soft goods user of a similar sized space would pay or is there a different? Thats all over the board too.
But Chris go ahead.
I know you want to say something.
Yeah.
I was just going to add on couple what Don was saying that when we look at our centers its all about creating the best mousetrap.
How can you say consumers to do what Don said drive additional sales? Grocery stores bring in daily traffic we see that category bringing in daily traffic.
We clearly believe for all the things that Don just said that it brings in daily trip count into your center and if there is daily customers are coming in they get more familiar with the small start tenant and the mix thats there.
So when your glasses break you realize oh yeah right next to the health clubs that optical store that I want to go get my glasses fixed that generate more sales.
So we see them as an integral part to creating more footfall on our centers and creating that daily traffic that makes it more the location that those consumers choose to go to over other centers in the same shopping district.
Great.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Okay.
And our last question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Do you have any thoughts on Third Street Promenade now weve had Santa Monica Place open for some time and Im curious what you guys are thinking in terms of traffic and whats going on in that whole space there? But also you have an Old Navy in that group and Im wondering what youre thinking about that as well? Third Street Promenade is the gift that keeps giving for us and Im so happy Santa Monica Place is redone and up and operating.
It has not hurt the street.
It is not hurt our tenants on the street at all.
You bring of Old Navy there is a lease that is way under market.
J.
Crew which we also own way under market well have  we start the top end of the street at Wilshire with Banana Republic there that I think were going to make some money there.
I think every time we think were done and there is how could rents go higher on Third Street Promenade they do.
And when you look at our in-place rents compared to whats there the future looks extremely bright.
I think having Santa Monica Place done is a absolute positive to the entire neighborhood and I couldnt say anything more positive about it.
I really couldnt.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you Don.
And then Andy Im curious on the term loan would  Im wondering about the possible expansion of that.
Is it possible you could have say some cash drag maybe $100 million of cash drag if you go high enough or will you only do the expansion of the loan beyond $200 million if you have some of these assets some of these acquisitions closing that kind of thing? Yeah.
I mean Rich look especially in the current environment theres a tremendous amount of volatility in the market.
Weve recently started syndication of the loans so well see what is that we get.
It is its a balance.
Its what is it that were seeing with respect to the ability to kind of create this loan from the syndicate group versus some of the other thing that we have in the pipeline that may have less certainty.
But it is a real possibility that there could be a cash drag which is why within the guidance numbers that I laid out I said to the extent that we were over the 200 million it could create a drag on 2012 earnings.
Yeah.
Its great financing Rich.
And obviously timing capital allocation with refinancing is a tricky thing particularly in a company like ours where its important that we continue to grow earnings and we show that continued stability and growth.
But I can tell you I have a bias to take a little more of that money if its available even if it does put some cash on the balance sheet for a few months depending upon how many demand we have.
But we will balance you wont see a  were not going to trash earnings because were sitting with a lot of cash on the balance sheet.
But there may be some real hit.
Okay.
All right.
Very good.
Thank you Don.
I appreciate it guys.
At this time there are no further questions.
You may proceed.
Great.
Thank you everyone.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter and seeing that -- there.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes todays conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Federal Realty Investment Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cathy and Ill be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for todays call to Ms.
Kristina Lennox.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Id like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realtys fourth quarter year-end 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Andy Blocher Jeff Berkes and Chris Weilminster.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
In addition to our fourth quarter and year-end 2011 supplemental disclosure package we also filed our 10-K yesterday.
Both documents provide you with a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the Trusts 2011 operating and financial performance and both are currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed in this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realtys future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in depth discussion of Risk Factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operation.
Before I turn the call over to Don Wood I would like to announce that on May 16th and 17th 2012 we will be sponsoring an Analyst and Investor Day in San Jose.
If you like additional information please contact me directly.
And now Don will begin our discussion of our fourth quarter and year end 2011 results.
Don? Thanks Kristina.
Good morning everybody.
About midway through 2011 I began to feel decisively more upbeat about our business and I tried to convey that optimism in my second quarter comments call remarks and then again in the third quarter remarks.
Now February 2012 the books are closed for the year and I think the improving sentiment is reflected for all to see in our 2011 results.
Federal Realty had a very strong year and the momentum has carried over into January of 2012 with the signing of some key leases and a continuation of low bad debt type cost.
Reported FFO per share for the year was $4 which includes some very significant acquisition expenses tied to the Montrose Crossing and Plaza El Segundo.
It still grew 3.1% in 2011 and set an all-time record for Federal as did revenues at $553 million and EBITDA of $354 million.
Thats an all-time record better than the heydays of 2006 and 2007 and every other year in our 50-year long history before and since.
If you look at our earnings growth without those acquisitions costs which are closed in late December by the way so there is no offsetting benefit in 2011 for the properties operations you would see FFO per share growth of 4.4% and again thats over an all-time high last year.
In the fourth quarter the reported number of $0.97 includes $0.04 of those Montrose Crossing acquisition expenses and therefore appears to be flat with the $1.10 reported in last years fourth quarter.
But remember that we had just settled our dispute with Vornado on the Pentagon Row land last year and that settlement benefitted fourth quarter 2010 by $0.03 or $0.04 too.
I go through all of this only to show that the improved operating trends that we saw in the middle of 2011 carried through to the end of the year and in fact in 2012.
Same center of growth for the full year was solid just under 2% both including and excluding profit under redevelopment it was even better for the fourth quarter 2.7% excluding redevelopment 3.5% when including those profits.
Those results were of course the result of our strong leasing results earlier in the year and last in the executed deals in the fourth quarter and they bode well for a strong 2012 too.
I will talk about those deals for a minute.
In the quarter 82 deals done; 74 of them for our existing comparable space at average first year new rents of $32.81 a foot compared with $29.80 a foot for the last year the previous lease 10% increase.
Two thirds of those deals were renewals and a 9% increase and one third were new tenants at a 12% increase.
We saw that relative leasing strength in all three of our major geographic regions.
We saw it in the North East the Mid Atlantic and California and we saw it among both shopping centers and mixed use properties.
When adding in those fourth quarter results to the first nine months the full-year of 2011 saw us complete 362 deals for over $1.4 million square feet of space.
Most of those deals were done in space for which there had been an expiring leasing in place and were done in average rent of $30.57 9% more in the previous deal.
2012 and 2013 will be the beneficiary of those new leases.
One of those deals was with Anthropology to take a chunk of the former Borders book space in Old Town Los Gatos.
Then after year-end we also made a great new deal with H&amp;M to take the entirety of the Borders space at Santana Row.
In both cases rent on the new deals we exceed the Borders rent two down two to go in terms of backfilling our four Borders locations and we are very close to a lease signing on the third one.
When you think about the analyzing Federal its helpful to consider the stability of our operating portfolio and then focus on the growth initiatives embodied in our development and redevelopment pipeline as well as the new acquisitions.
Because the operating portfolio generates operating earnings north of $380 million annually and generally grows at 2% plus each year we feel comfortable supplementing that portfolio with development capital allocations of nearly $500 million to mixed-used construction on our existing sites at Assembly Row Pike &amp; Rose and Santana Row.
Projects that we are optimistic will fit right in with our existing portfolio increased significant value as they stabilize and grow.
Similarly the acquisition of over $300 million of real estate interest in Plaza El Segundo in Greater Los Angeles and Montrose Crossing in Rockville Maryland further signifies the operating portfolio and provides a raw material for future redevelopment.
Getting all that going and prepared for inclusion in 2012 was a big part of our focus in '11 and I think thats put us in a fine position to have a very productive 2012 subject to Europe or some other anticipate crisis throwing our economy off track.
Thats why we raised our guidance.
So lets first talk about the developments.
Later this month we'll begin construction on project 8B at Santana Row.
Its a $70 million residential building housing 220 apartments right behind the main retail street.
Given the success of all other residential at Santana most recently borne out last years project we did we are optimistic that we will be able to generate yields in the 7% plus range upon stabilization in a couple of years.
We are also making some very good progress in completing planning for the remaining build out Santana of additional office additional residential and retail at the end of the row.
Stay tuned for more in the coming quarters.
At Assembly as we announced last month our deal with AvalonBay is closed.
All the T-stop hurdles have been satisfied our lease with AMC for a state of the art 12-screen theatre has been signed and construction on all fronts will began by the end of this quarter.
We have allocated approximately $160 million in capital to this first phase where we expect the delivering space to retail tenants in 2014 with stabilization at some point 2015.
Come a long way at Assembly and while our first phase will yield somewhere in the 6% range initially we are very optimistic about the value we are creating here over the mid and the long-term.
The leasing interest from both outlet tenants and restaurants in this project has been incredible or varying.
Later in 2012 we expect to begin construction of Pike &amp; Rose currently you know it as Mid-Pike Shopping Center in Rockville Maryland.
We were committing capital approximating $250 million for the first phase of the project that will include roughly 500 residential units 80 000 square feet of office and 150 000 square feet of brand new retail.
We are looking at 8% plus returns here and 2014 2015 rent starts is very unique makes these project in one of the best intersections in D.C.
in the D.C.
Metropolitan area.
All in all nearly $500 million in a accretive developments beginning in a few years at locations where we are already operating and know well.
On the acquisition side we finally closed our deal at Plaza El Segundo and we are thrilled to have this iconic shopping center added to our West Coast portfolio.
We are currently evaluating the development opportunities thats at a hard corner of Sepulveda and Rosecrans adjacent to the existing shopping center for an incremental 70 000 feet or so restaurant and retial.
And in Rockville Maryland we are finally able to get control of 89.9% of Montrose Crossing the 366 000 square foot regional power center on 38 acres across the street from Pike &amp; Rose the Pike&amp; Rose development on Rockville site.
With the addition of Montrose Crossing which has been on our acquisition hit list for decades.
We now control over 1.2 million square feet of retail within a mile stretch on the Pike.
Its anchored by Giant Foods Marshalls Sports Authority Old Navy and Barnes and Noble among others and we believe that the rents are generally below market.
We acquired Montrose Crossing in a low 5% yield for $127 million thats our 89.9% and we obviously included it as well as Plaza El Segundo in the full guidance that Andy will go through in a minute.
Thats it.
A very active development and acquisition year in 2011 in addition to a core portfolio that continues to provide all the stability that you could ask for from retail real estate in the post 2007 economy.
Everything we see at this point suggests 2012 will give us more of the same out of the core that allow to focus hard on development and execution.
The path and visibility of this company towards further value creation is I think extraordinary.
Im going to now turn it over the Andy and then well open up lines for your questions.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
Im going to run through a number of the drivers that led to the strong results that Don discussed before going through a recent financing and then providing some detail on our improved 2012 guidance.
Our record 2011 FFO per share was driven by our solid core operations improvements in bad debt a redevelopment impacts from a couple of key properties.
These results came despite some significant current year costs as we position Federal Realty for future growth including $3.4 million of closing costs associated with new high quality acquisitions.
Let me provide some of the details.
Total property revenue was up $11.3 million with a lions share coming from the same center pool as well as year-over-year improvements at Hampden Lane in Bethesda Escondido Promenade as we continue to benefit from the Ross and Six deals in the former vacant Mervyn's box.
In Santana Row as the retail and office building 300 Santana Row continues to provide strong year-over-year results and as the new 108 unit residential building Levare came on line in October.
Property revenue was negatively impacted by $5.7 million decrease in lease termination fees versus 2010.
Lease term fees has always been recurring part of our financial results and the $1.8 million of lease termination fee income in 2011 was the lowest level we've seen since 2003 and was less than half of our 10 year average.
For the year $3.7 million reduction of bad debt expense with some primary contributor in the lower rental expenses reflecting our continued strong corporate collections efforts as well as generally improving economic conditions.
A $6.5 million decrease in interest expense was driven by a 30 basis point decrease in weighted average rate over the course of the year and full year G&amp;A increases came largely from the $2.4 million of closing costs on Montrose Crossing in the fourth quarter as well as $1 million associated with Plaza El Segundo that were expensed throughout the year.
In total FFO was up 5.2% while FFO per share was up 3.1% to a record $4 per share result.
As our weighted average account increased as we issued 1.7 million common shares through the ATM in the first nine months of 2011.
Fourth quarter 2011 results were driven by the same factors as the full year result but were disproportionately impacted by the significant acquisition closing costs in the quarter as well as tough comps related in the fourth quarter 2010 ground rent.
Minimum rent increases for the quarter benefitted from the new Santana Row residential units.
On the acquisition side we received full benefit of this January 2011 acquisition of Tower Shops in the quarter but Plaza El Segundo and Montrose only contributed nominally operating results due to their late December closings.
The rental expenses continue to benefit from improvements in bad debt.
Interest expense was up $0.5 million as a result of higher average balances outstanding and the $2.2 million increase in G&amp;A was almost entirely attributable to closing costs associated with our acquisition of Montrose Crossing in December.
On to the balance sheet it was an active quarter with respect to borrowing and assuming debt.
On our last quarters call we discussed that we are in the market with a new seven year term loan.
We expected to size that deal of $200 million at a rate of approximately 3.5%.
Our actual execution benefited from better subscription and a favorable debt market conditions.
In November we closed on our new $275 million seven year term loan at a rate of LIBOR cost 145.
At closing we swapped our $275 million of LIBOR exposure through November 1 2018 for a fixed rate of 1.72% effectively fixing the rate on the term loan at 3.17% In connection with both Montrose Crossing and Plaza El Segundo we assumed debt with our acquisition of controlling interests in both transactions.
In the case of Montrose Crossing the $80 million 10-year mortgage was placed on the asset in closing bears interest at 4.2%.
At Plaza El Segundo we assumed our pro rata portion of the existing $175 million of secured debt associated with the property at a rate of 6.3%.
The Plaza El Segundo debt matures in August 2017.
Both assets have been consolidated on our balance sheet as have the entirety of their debt balances.
Finally we didn't utilize the ATM in the fourth quarter but in total issued 1.7 million shares at a weighted average price of over $85 throughout 2011.
The ATM is proven to be a great tool to manage our balance sheet and liquidity throughout the year.
Even with the assumption of secured debt associated with the recent acquisition the balance sheet remains in great shape with fixed charge coverage north of three times debt-to-EBITDA in the mid five and a leverage on a booked basis at 44% and 27% on a market capitalization basis.
In addition we were sitting on $50 million of excess cash at year end and have less than $200 million of debt maturities in 2012 and no outstanding balances on our $400 million line of credit.
Our long-term balance sheet management with a competitive advantage in being able to absorb the secured debt in both Montrose and Plaza El Segundo and was recognized in January by Moody's who placed our Baa1 rating on positive outlook.
With fourth-quarter behind us let me give you some perspective on how we are thinking about 2012 performance drivers.
Don spent some time talking about acquisitions and developments but our internal growth in 2012 will benefit from a lot of the hard work we have done from a leasing and operations perspective over the past several years.
Leasing deals for previously vacant space will be delivered in 2012 including a new 45 000 square foot [LA Fitness] in the previous Circuit City of Quince Orchard a new 38 000 square foot grocery store in the Safeway Box at Westgate Mall at higher rents both in the first half of the year.
And the new 25 000 square foot Dawson's Market grocery store at Rockville Town Square that is expected to be open for business in the second half of 2012.
These deals as well as a host of others are expected to drive 50 to 75 basis point occupancy improvement over the course of 2012.
That occupancy improvement will be heavily weighted to the second half of the year.
We will continue to see positive redevelopment impacts from both our residential building and the retail and office buildings at Santana Row and the Dixon Ross deals at Escondido Promenade as these projects will be operational for the entirety of 2012.
And we will get rent increases were strong new and renewal leases that will take effect over the course of the year such as a new lease with Michael's and renewal with Lord &amp; Taylor both at significantly higher rents at Bala Cynwyd in Philadelphia and the impact associated with the new fresh market at Congressional which held a grand opening in mid January.
These positives will be somewhat offset by new vacancy as we make way for future growth through redevelopment and re-tenanting opportunities including taking about a quarter of Mid-Pike out of service in 2012 as we progress with a significant development of Pike &amp; Rose on that side.
Recent vacancies of previous Toys R Us and Barnes &amp; Noble spaces at Huntington Shopping Center in Long Island which paved the way for better merchandising opportunities the higher rents for that property and Shoppers World in Shortsville Virginia as we progress with the redevelopment there.
Taken together these intacts provide the basis for an improved outlook for same center growth in the 3% range for 2012.
This improvement in our quarter outlook was an incremental $0.02 per share increase associated with the acquisition of Montrose Crossing which was not included in our previous guidance allows us to raise our FFO per share guidance to a range of $4.19 to $4.25.
The record 2011 results that we reported yesterday are a testament to the quality of our operating decisions over the past few years.
In addition our portfolio is well-positioned for the future with additional opportunities for core growth through occupancy and roll over a growing pipeline of very real near term development and redevelopment opportunities to supplement that core growth and a balance sheet which provides the flexibility to take advantage of market opportunities to fund our business effectively going forward.
Operator we will now take your questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from the line of Geoffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys just a few questions.
Don what interest would you guys have in maybe looking to sell off or monetize your multifamily even on a ground lease basis because that could allow you to control a long term the directional land that may be kinda capitalizing some of the pricing and you know you can recycle some of that capital? Yeah Geoff thats a fair point.
Listen most of what we -- most of what we built we are building a condos back we are building at the quality in such and it has been added and set up to be able to sell at the appropriate time.
What -- because we dont go out and do residential on a standalone basis basically we wanted -- because its included in the fabric of the retail development that we are in it's really important that we control it we know what it looks like we know what it feels like and frankly that is that we get the NOI from the rents for period of time and see how it all plays out.
So there is a balance between doing it you know today when when a lot of it is not done and ready yet.
We did obviously a few years ago exactly that with Santana the first 200 units on top of building three.
We would do that with more of Santana coming up.
We want to see how it all plays out for us and we want to be the beneficiary of the income for a while I assume.
The rest are strong.
And I guess maybe taken some of the mix of these projects whats the latest on IKEA at Assembly Square are they starting construction; I apologize if I missed that in your remarks? No you havent and you wont miss it because were now to all over the place if not at our land if this -- if it happened.
They put off basically making any of this -- any decision all for about two years in the middle of the recession.
We expect an answer if not to us they expect to make a decision and announce it to both the public and the city in the next what is it Dawn next 60 90 days actually.
Right.
Thats probably a little bit though.
So were close.
Theyve not said yes.
Now they may say no were not doing it.
And while IKEA at Assembly would clearly be a good thing I mean there is no question about it.
It brings in lots of traffic lots of people to the area.
I can tell you that the momentum that were getting on both the leasing side obviously the announcement of the peak without IKEA out there has made it so theyre less important to the project and obviously we work that hard.
So I hope they do it well they dont exactly in a little while.
And does the acquisition Montrose factor into the Whiteland I guess the Whiteland sector plan or is that more of a future save? Not particularly.
Its actually -- actually its outside of it isnt it just barely outside of this the? It is.
Its just outside the boundaries of the sector plan that were going to be developing Pike &amp; Rose under.
And its part of the sector plan two which will be coming shortly.
Yeah.
But the bigger thing for us Jeff and I know you know this area well.
When you now control Congressional Plaza Federal Plaza Montrose Crossing Pike &amp; Rose directly across the street why would just down the street Rockville comes there up the street I mean its pretty compelling.
I mean we have to have that effort.
And then thats why I wanted to ask questions is -- do you -- I think I asked you this last quarter but it was not where you thought to be really allowing assets transacted.
Im just curious kind of what youre thinking as far as cap rate there because Im trying to figure out if you think there is any applicability maybe to some of your other sort of main street type portfolios like Santano or Third Street Promenade? I thought I had said it last time maybe I didnt.
But I mean there it went for a sub four basically in the first year.
Now theyll certainly lease up to do.
And that lease up we looked at it got it out to maybe a five in a number of years.
And I dont remember the numbers exactly but its something  its something like that.
I dont know that that you can take and drill a straight correlation to any other particular asset.
I mean there are obviously every transaction has some very specifics in terms of the buyer and what were trying to accomplish.
But you know what you cant ignore Jeff and I think youre I dont know if youre alluding to this or not but as investors today youre trying to figure out where they can add value to real estate.
There is just no question that the heavily in-fill particularly year then streets like this with a mixed-use component have great futures.
And they got to be in the right palaces like everything else.
But when youre underwriting something youve got a chance of making your investment work from an IRR perspective to the extent youre in places like that.
So of course theyre going from very low initial cap rates its not really very much different than what you see in the residential area today for good comment to have sub five stuff happening a lot.
And so I dont I wont say you can take that and apply to every other situation.
But when you look at retail real estate and you talk about values youre always going to get a lot more demand and ability to push prices higher for newer street type of assets and does that apply to Santana Row does that apply to Bethesda Row I certainly think it does.
Does it apply everywhere I dont now?  I mean theyre very individual decisions.
And just the last question for Andy is whats the guidance for maybe accessing ATM in 2012? Jeff at this point kind of the incremental cost of the ATM relative to our debt is its really pretty comparable.
So we havent made a decision with respect to which way were going to go.
But it shouldnt have a material impact on guidance based on absolute rate.
It will have -- it could have a potential impact based on timing.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
On Don you mentioned the low five CapEx at Montrose and I know that was strategic for you.
It doesnt sound like there is kind of much to be done or you necessarily look too much on redevelopment their near-term given what you guided at Pike &amp; Rose.
But I mean how should I think of that as sort of your appetite for sort of low five cap yield right now? First thing you should think about Paul is the ability to put 38 acres together on the corner of a street light that.
38 acres.
This isnt a strip shopping center that 8 acres 10 acres or 12 acres 38.
And so when I look at that and I look at obviously the first thing we look at is the rates that are in place where they can go from their whether theyre going to be rolling down what the story is their.
And were very comfortable that generally the rents were below market there.
So thats a really important thing in and of itself.
But secondly youre absolutely right.
There isnt going to be construction starting on a residential project or anything else on that 38 acres in the next six months.
But dont count that out in the mid-term.
I mean Ive kind of said this a lot over the past in the past and I so believe it more and more and more.
Bigger pieces of land give you more flexibility and more opportunities to do things even if theyre under ratable thats the word not under ratable at the time of acquisition.
Montrose is no different to that.
I think youre going to love the 10-year IRR on Montrose Crossing.
Okay great.
And then on the development high point I mean youve had some definite successes in terms of pacing things and getting building a lot of momentum in several of those projects at the same time.
How do you thing about from a risk perspective what your comfort zone is in terms of the size of the pipeline relative to your base and how much would you look to grow that and would that be a constraint on acquisition opportunities that might have a multiphase mix use as part of that in the near-term?  Paul its a great question and its one that we are very very attuned to.
I never want you to think of us as you know primarily a development company or primarily a company thats an acquisition company and its why am I remark like that.
I try to make a big point because I really believe it in the $380 million bucks that we do year in and year out are growing but that kind of a base on the core property.
With that kind of a base Im absolutely willing to take the kind of risk that we have on Assembly and Mid-Pike and Santana I think you would too.
But as a general rule youre never going to see more than 20% of the focus of this company being on acquisitions and redevelopment.
Its basically a core plus kind of initiative here with great stuff that you can kind of count on to that stability but the ability to do an Assembly the ability to do a Mid-Pike you wont us adding three more of those things within the next year or two.
Well see how that -- even as the first phase of those projects get going there is still well over a $1 billion left thats going to go on those pieces of land after we get the first phases done.
And so how much of thats going to be ours how much of thats going to be a partner.
Lets see how the first phase does.
And so the ability to be able to kind of balance and that is a big word with me.
But balance this business plan between that level of risk on development and acquisition commences with a $380 million stable core portfolio is about what you should kind of expect.
I hope thats helpful; I know it does not exactly quantify the way you like but thats how I think about it No its a good color.
And then just last on you know you got great portfolios in both D.C.
and Silicon Valley and there is a lot of talk and certainly in the office in the apartment market about a shift in strength Silicon Valley being very strong in both D.C.
decelerating in both I know the retail is different in lot of respects are you -- how are you seeing that play out in terms of your portfolio? Well I got to tell you and I am going to start with Silicon Valley first.
Silicon Valley clearly has led actually in the markets we are in led us out of recession.
The first bits of strength that we saw and continue to see come out of Silicon Valley.
It's why we were able to build the first residential project that we did and put into service last year and beat the rents and beat the budget and beat the timing.
I mean it is its why we have now moved forward very quickly on the second residential piece it's why we got some great traction going on right now but its too early to talk about -- about the end of the Street retail wise and maybe even office wise out there.
So when I think about Silicon Valley whats happening out there will allow us to over the right time now build outs and completely.
We should if this market continues the way it goes in the next four or five years we should be built out (inaudible) not a lot more stuff to do but thats because of the strength of the Silicon Valley.
In Washington in the Washington region I will tell you I dont know whats going to happen going forward certainly as it relates to government spending and jobs but if you take a look at what has happened so far and what we are forecasting we see very strong very strong demand for our properties here.
I dont see that changing.
I really think I kind of said this in the past I am going to repeat it short loss in Washington DC at your own peril.
It is just too strong and deep and vibrant market to -- it's not a Washington of 1968 there is a very very strong business base here that frankly has gotten stronger and stronger.
I dont want to see it changing.
Our next question comes on line of Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
Please proceed Just going to the capital front Andy you have the $175 million 6% coming due in July the  unsecured term loan market you guys have demonstrated and others have remains very competitive very attractive.
And then you guys have all the development and redevelopment spend.
So just trying to get a sense for what your thoughts are on replacing the $175 million and if it would be materially upside just given your funding needs for the development? Yeah I mean Alex as I try to sit with the conversation which I mean we've got a fully under online that we can utilize.
We have access through the ATM.
We have long term debt options I mean they are long term assets we want to fund them on a long-term basis.
And the difference in cost between an incremental FFO yield on the new equity relative to what it is that we are seeing 10-year unsecured are kind of low to mid 4s.
We have to wait and see how the markets react and how the year treats us and we'll make the decisions along the way but I dont think that its going to have a material impact one way or the other earnings estimate.
Thats why we also gave you a range.
Okay but as far as I guess keeping the debt investors happy do you feel keep compelled that you have to come to market every few years or if you take a few years off I guess they will still love you regardless? Well those are your words not mine.
But yeah I mean I dont feel a need for us to be in the unsecured market once a year once every other year.
It's a great place -- I feel like our relationships with the fixed income investors are very very strong.
We've seen some real positives the deposit outlook that we got Moody's that can be a real positive there which is we're constantly evaluating what our alternatives are.
And then we look at where our funding needs are and we pick the best choice and I think that we've demonstrated that we've been very good at doing them.
Okay so just continuing that on the capital front if we look towards the dividend just given all your access the availability of capital right now is something like a 7% dividend increase is that sort of upper single digits is that reasonable or is it focused to retain more cash for the internal uses?   Yeah Alex from our perspective our goal is always the way that we try to target it is paying out a 100% of taxable income.
Taxable income is growing at a slower rate than you are seeing FFO.
So 7% to me right now seems very very strong but I absolutely see the dividend record continuing and if we have the ability to push it more than the penny or two per quarter that we've seen and we'll try to do that.
Alex keep an eye on this year.
Obviously its a very busy -- obviously the economy is still fragile and we're going into a significant development period.
So those two things create caution.
Having said that this is a recovery.
We are -- we can call it a fragile recovery we could call it reversible and all that but it's clearly a recovery and so the more confidence we get the more likely we are to increase that dividend above what weve done last year so.
Okay.
Just a final question.
On the disposition front just given the appetite for quality centers you have a few centers in the Chicago area in Illinois and then one in Michigan.
There arent markets that we typically hear you guys talking about a lot.
Is this also maybe taking advantage of the strong demand for assets and using that as a source of liquidity? There is Alex -- Alex its a very good point.
What has happened and we look at that for quite some time.
What has happened is weve regularly been surprised by been able to do better than we thought we could on those properties.
And so the idea of okay lets get that lease tied up lets get the income to one of the strongest points.
Frankly although weve held this back a little bit but strategically youre exactly right.
We very likely will not be in Chicago or certainly Detroit in any kind of a big way.
And so you may see that going forward.
I dont want to say that any decisions are made; it is not up in that way.
But we certainly will look at it.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector of Bank of America.
Please proceed.
A follow-up question to Alexs.
I guess could you talk about Florida a little bit in particular I know just a couple of years ago you bought was it Del Mar Village in book.
I guess anything happening there that you see more opportunities or is that not one of the core markets? No it is.
Ill say it is and I appreciate you asking that Jeff.
We like Florida and we like the East Coast of Florida a lot.
Now with respect Del Mar in Wellington.
Yeah good in Wellington we could not have bought it overtime.
And believe me if this company was made up of those two -- those two assets you wouldnt be investing very much because it is theyre absolutely not creating value in fact theyre destroying value as we roll leases down.
And Im really happy that we dont own a lot more that is that stuff that would go off with a high basis so well four or five six and seven.
Compare that to the acquisition of the Tower Shop which is much more of a Regional Center that we bought this year and its like night and day.
It continues to show us that that its just plane with whatever market youre in you got to be in the best in the best properties.
You have to be in those places where you can create retailer demand small shop demand in Florida at least in those two properties remains weak and frankly too much small space small shops space for the market place.
And yet it if were to show you the results from Tower Shops between what we paid for and the reason leasing that we have done is you would say my god this cant be in the same markets.
So its very good.
We absolutely continue to look and I think we will be successful in being able to buy more in those three counties.
We are very bullish on it long-term but you got other right properties.
And a follow-up so I guess your comment about small shops Don.
There has been a lot of discussions about the mom-and-pops and whether mom and pops are recovering or not.
And I guess from our broker contacts I think its been a little bit less recovery with mom-and-pops more on maybe the small boxes national tenants taking 5 000 to 10 000 square feet I guess can you talk about that a little bit? Yeah I think thats -- listen I think thats a fair point globally.
I think globally if you were to ask us are we having more luck and making more progress with the DSWs the TJ Maxxs the Rosses Nordstrom Racks (inaudible) those type of national 10 000 to 30 000 foot tenants the answer is absolutely very very strong particularly in the great locations.
And when you compare and contrast that to small shops there is absolutely more weakness.
And although within that when you talk about quick service restaurants and food uses really great.
But the service type of stuff in the soft goods is weaker.
But again that is a global common and you really got to take that down to the individual markets and the individual centers in that market.
And in that we see a very wide variety and not unlike the rest of the stuff the better the quality of the real estate the more luck and successfully have it.
And then understanding Pike very well I definitely appreciate your comments about the strategic acquisition with Montrose.
Maybe it would be a little helpful could you provide any more comments on when you say the leases are below market are you talking about some of the big box tenants you mentioned some of the smaller spaces there timing can you quantity that at all? Can I do it here?  I dont -- I cant do it really well here I can tell you overall that we are looking about four or five bucks below market based on our guesses of market.
There are a number of leases that coming up in the next couple of years that we are going to big pops on.
So thats great I mean I dont want to talk about the restaurant pattern front but there is a good example right as something right that will be in shorter term.
When you look at the numbers that the boxes are doing there its a wonderful thing in terms of the ability for those tenants to renew when they are up at significantly higher rents.
So I feel great about that.
If maybe we can do this down at City Group in Florida maybe we can do this at Mary but well have something prepared on Montrose that gives you better visibility towards where were trying to take it.
Okay last question for Andy.
Andy you mentioned improvements in bad debt.
I guess is there anything interesting in that you know that trend to talk about whether its regions or types of tenants? Not really I think that weve done a very good job of you know improving our collection efforts internally and I think that weve been pretty conservative with respect to reserving the tenant issues that have been out there and what you see over the course of 2011 was the culmination of those efforts.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of UBS.
Please proceed.
Andy Im wondering if you could quantify the dilutive impacts on FFO in '12 versus '11 and I guess taking the quarter proportion of Mid-Pike out of service and also kind of aggregating with the other sort of re-tenanting stuff that youre doing? $1.5 million or so?  $0.02? Yeah it probably about right.
$0.02 $0.025.
$0.02?  And how does the timing work in terms of that space coming off line versus other lease up there because I think your forecasting sort of slight up 50 occupancies for the year?  How shall we think about the movement of that? Second half Christie I think if you look at that coming out you should be -- we should start construction on Mid-Pike gosh late summer right.
So the September-October time period is where were looking now to get the thing to do and some prices to get nailed down.
The trickier part is you know the other tenants keeping the other tenants going in the part of the center thats not being demolished and the timing there is going to be more month to month.
So if I were looking at that I would kind expect some stuff going down mid-year and kind of rolling in the second half.
Okay and then you had provided I think same store NOI guidance of about 3% for this year.
So if I look at the same store NOI growth including redevelopment versus excluding redevelopment because of sort of that the Pike &amp; Rose and the other stuff which one is the 3% and how shall we be thinking about them relevant to each other? Yeah I know.
The 3% is the including redevelopment and that will absolutely be negatively impacted associated with things like the Mid-Pike coming offline but certainly it will be possibly impacted by things like up full a year have been proving operations over as Santana Row and a couple of the other redevelopment projects.
So the excluding redevelopment number should be higher? No I think that the excluding -- it should be pretty typical.
I think that the excluding redevelopment would probably be in the mid 2s and youll see the including redevelopment in the 3s.
And can you remind me what kind of financing whether its constructive financing or other do you expect to put in place for Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly Row? Our expectation is that we are going to do that corporately.
We have no anticipation that we are going to do construction financing.
Its the reason why we manage our balance sheet the way that we do because of the ultimate flexibility for us to go on finance it utilizing the line fixing markets in the equity markets as we seek that.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of J.P.
Morgan.
Please proceed.
In terms of acquisition you just came off busy second half of 11 big start of 2012 and youre looking at a redevelopment pipeline thats getting a lot bigger by the next few years.
How do you think acquisitions play into the mix of investment spending over the next few years?  Does it feel like its a little bit less of priority or the same as it has been over the past year? Oh Michael absolutely the same as it has been.
Its hard with us right because you can't -- because its lumpy.
We are going to do one or two or maybe three in a year.
Its really all about and always has been about with us shaking loose opportunities on our hit list.
I mean weve identified the acquisitions we want Montrose was a great example but we dont control the timing of getting them.
That will not in any way be less of a priority or more of a priority.
It is what we do.
We try to build the portfolio of the greatest stuff.
And so today I can tell you -- let me give you some breaking news from my perspective okay?  Today or last night we put in a bid on a property that we really liked that may or may not have some redevelopment opportunity that we thought we aggressively bid on and we basically got word this morning that we are not even in the same ballpark.
And we will not.
Were just not going to chase the numbers that just cant make any sense for us acquisitions like that even if they are on the hit list.
I mean talking about seriously stuff buy stuff in this particular case were not doing.
So whether we get one done or two done or none done I dont know but its every bit the priority that it always has been.
Okay.
And just a quick on for Andy.
Andy you talked about lease term fees being down significantly in the 11 year-over-year whats a rough range thats included in 2012 guidance? Yeah I assume we did $1.8 million in 11.
I think that were going to end up getting a little bit of that back we will probably be in the $2 million to $3 million range.
Whats in the guidance then? Its $2 million to $3 million.
Our next question comes from line of Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hi everyone.
Just a follow-up question on the hit list I mean is the activity on those properties that youre tracking is it changed much in the past six months or so or is that youre seeing more opportunity to go after some of that stuff? I dont think so.
I dont know Jeff is on the call right? Yeah.
Im here.
Tell me Jeff what are you seeing? Well this is a kind of a strange start to 2012.
Normally what well see in a given calendar year is a lot of broker RFP activity in the fourth quarter which translates to a lot of new stuff coming to market right after the first of the year.
We didnt see that this year.
Now I talked to a lot of brokers on a regular basis and they all seemed busy working on stuff thats going to come to market later in the year but the 2012 got off to a very slow start.
So who knows how it will materialize the rest of the year but were definitely off to a slow start versus prior years.
The individual owners that we talked to on our hit list.
Sometimes were in a strange conversation were sitting in the market like Don said what were seeing properties and not just street retail properties or urban like huge properties but really strong neighborhood and community shopping centers trading at spectacularly high values cap rates its up five or close to five IRRs that are six maybe on a good day.
And its sort of understandable why institutions are applying a lot out of their portfolios right now because they dont have much of an alternative but individual owners arent taking advantage of this pricing environment so the head scratcher for me.
So I dont know how this year is going to turnout I just know were not seeing the normal flow of deals that weve seen every other year since Ive been doing those which has been a very long time.
Okay thanks for that color.
And I just want to -- you said that individual owners that are driving the pricing that high is that what youre saying competition wise? No no no its primarily the institutions that are driving pricing right now.
Okay.
Well the pension fund advisors or the operators backed by pension fund capital.
Okay.
Gotcha.
Okay lack of alternatives and that kind of thing? Yeah.
So it makes it tough for them to sell right now because whether theyre going to do it for money I dont know that individuals that own great assets should think the same way I mean thats why I scratch my head.
I mean its a great time if youre an individual and youre not going to be a definite owner taking advantage of really well everybody views as a second bite in the apple to take advantage of certain really really great pricing and theyre not doing it like they typically have.
Okay thank you.
And just I know the leasing momentum it sounds like it maintains here in early 2012 but just wondering if you could apply some color on -- I know it may just be a [cool] thing but the new leasing volume this quarter did seem to be a bit slower than its been quite a while.
Was there anything driving that or just hesitation on tenants parts? No I wouldnt draw that conclusion at all.
Its just 90-day period.
Okay.
No conclusions drawn on that our leasing is strong.
Okay fair enough.
And then just the last question on maintenance CapEx it was up a fair amount this year year-on-year?  Can you provide some -- just some commentary on what was driving that and if the sort of $21 million level that you did in 2011 is sort of a good benchmark for 2012? Yeah I mean were anticipating probably be a little bit less in 2012 than what we saw in 2011.
Okay.
Was there something driving 2011 so much higher? Nothing.
Nothing specific.
Okay.
Just the timing of project.
Our next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay of RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
With the recent rebound in housing starts has this changed your outlook on multifamily developments? No.
No it hasnt.
The -- remember when we talk about multifamily developments what were always doing is looking at that investment as part of our overall retail project.
There is no standalone multifamily business that that were in or we desire to get into.
So you have to look at it through the glass of the mixed use project that were doing and in the case of mid pipe where well be doing that in the case of Santana remember these are retail locations that we know extremely well.
And so when were building these things for the long-term were very very optimistic that we will be able to do the multifamily too just as we have in the past and just we have it congressional.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley of Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Hi its actually Michael Bilerman.
Don you think about Montrose and El Segundo and I guess the put rights that the partners have to you at the end of next year and then if those are not exercised it goes much further out in the future.
How do you think about sort of buying in those interests and how will fair market value be determined? Its good question.
Well you did Jeff you want to take Plaza El Segundo.
Yeah.
I mean Plaza El Segundo weve got a couple of different situations with the partners as stated in the deal.
A couple other partners are in for the longer-term on a shoulder-to-shoulder basis with us and when they decide they want out and weve the right take them out it we will at the fair market value.
But their interests are relatively small to the overall asset.
So I dont think it affects our overall asset pricing that much.
The other partner that stayed in wanted to tradeoff some cash flow risk for a little bit more certainly on the pricing which we were happy to do and we get a bit at that apple a lot sooner than the other two.
So that that prices got a little bit variability to it but not much and its what we would have paid today if we had the opportunity to do that.
So not too concerned about that either.
And then -- weve got one partner if you will its a less competent a deal at Montrose Dawn what do you think of that? Really no different than we just said with which was El Segundo it is the seller is willing to do by this they love to have flexibility that if they choose to catch up they can I suspect we wont be seeing that exercise for quite sometime.
And then when you think about El Segundo obviously the mortgage is a 2017 maturity obviously its a extraordinarily highly levered asset how does that sort of play into if those put rights are not done at the end of next year and we get to 2017 and it has to be refinanced.
How do all the dynamics work obviously youre under 50% partner but you get 75% of the cash flow just trying to think about how new equity if it had to be reequitized at that point would have to be injected in? The question how our partners would do that or how we would do that Im sorry.
Right I guess yeah whats the shared if that could be reequitized or lets say you couldnt get a loan at that point lets say you completely have come from the outset whats your -- what sort of view or funding for that relative to the partners? Well its -- as you might imagine very complicated and very detailed.
But I think the way you should look at that is when that -- when we do have the ability to pay that mortgage off one we dont have to put as much debt back on the asset.
And two that probably gives us an ability to call in some of those interests sooner than we otherwise would and if doesnt the math is probably favorable to us.
Okay.
And Andy just from a guidance perspective I think you talked about Montrose being $0.02 accretive to 12 at least in the guidance.
How did the dynamics work from an FFO and AFFO prospective for El Segundo I assume the more digits is above market and that has an impact in your consolidated.
Im just wondering how youre going to flow that through your income statement both from an FFO and AFFO or FAD perspective? Yeah I mean and Michael that we talked about Plaza El Segundo on last quarters call.
It was in the guidance that we had previously.
I mean Plaza El Segundo is about a penny accretive accretive to us in 2012.
And thats a cash or thats a GAAP penny? GAAP.
And from a cash perspective it would be less because youre not -- you're marking to market other loans youre getting higher? Were marking to market the loan were marking to market the leases were marking to market everything.
And so would it be dilutive on the cash basis at least initially or? Its about flat.
Okay.
And then Don just -- I guess a question that you always run a very simple story from an ownership perspective obviously youve the Clarion joint venture yet the stuff in a venture New Berry and these two deals have obviously just youve partners in this was it a little bit more complicated in owning 100%.
How do you think about someone else selling off multifamily how do you think about now some of these assemblages that youve created of bringing partners in and raising capital from that.
I recognize that you want to have a portfolio to get this stuff.
But would you be willing to have less of a share of the greater stuff to sort of monetize some of the value that youve created by bringing all the stuff together? Yeah thats a great question Michael.
The short answer to that is surely we would.
The longer answer is I got to stay balanced.
I mean and when I say balanced I firmly believe that there is a premium that we receive because of the understandability and simplicity of the company.
And even when you had listened to the last two questions that you had on Montrose and Plaza El Segunda while the physical deal because there are partners is have a few more bells and whistle to it.
The underlying management leasing and economics of all those projects or both of those projects are in our control.
So to the extent we arent able to put additional capital on those sites we would play out those deals and until basically we had more control.
To the extent we can add were going to like what we'll be able to do at Mid-Pike and maybe near Pike &amp; Rose and maybe be able do at Montrose in the future absolutely consider taking those things and bundling in putting it in a more of a venture with just some other very patient capital.
As long as we can maintain management as long as we can maintain leasing as long as we can maintain basically maintain the future of the project.
With no further questions in the queue at this time I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Kristina Lennox for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you everyone.
And if you would like any more information on the Investor Analyst Day please feel free to contact me directly.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce the conference leader Ms.
Kristina Lennox.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Andy Blocher Jeff Berkes and Chris Weilminster.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our first quarter 2012 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the trust's operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we could give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Before I turn the call over to Don Wood I'd like to remind you that next week on May 16 to 17 we will be sponsoring an Investor Analyst Day in San Jose.
If you would like additional information please contact me directly.
And now Don will begin our discussion of our first quarter 2012 results.
Don? Thanks Kristina and good morning everyone.
A great quarter for us in so many ways from the record quarterly earnings of $1.04 to the credit upgrade from Fitch to A- and a positive outlook designation from both S&amp;P and Moody's to the strong double-digit lease rollover growth to the construction starts and assembly in Santana Row to the seamless integration of Plaza El Segundo and Montrose Crossing into the portfolio everything came together this quarter for us quite nicely.
And then the second quarter started out the same way and so as Andy will talk about in a little bit we're going to raise earnings guidance for the full year.
What I'd like to do is talk how the quarter starts around the productivity of our core leasing because it provides the best window we have into the expectations for future cash flows.
The first quarter was pretty extraordinary 22 leases for 461 000 feet of comparable space completed at an average rent of $31.66 17% higher than the $27.15 it replaces.
Just to put that in perspective we've only leased 461 000 feet of space in the 3-month period 3 times in the last 60 quarters that's since 1997.
So it'd be very helpful in 2012 and 2013 cash flows.
An important contributor to the quarterly leasing result was a very significant re-merchandising of Huntington's Shopping Center in Long Island where we replaced Barnes &amp; Noble and Toys R Us with new and very accretive deals with Nordstrom Rack Alto [ph] and Chili's.
While we certainly deployed capital to reconfigure the deals make a ton of sense both financially and with the objective of improving merchandise for the benefit of the entire shopping center.
Huntington is a great example of a very well-located real estate where demand does exceed supply and where we can drive economics.
It sits adjacent to an assignment [ph] who's very successful Walt Whitman Mall.
Geographically the economy in Northern California continues to gain ground with job creation in the tech sector really benefiting our residential rents at Santana along with increasing tenant sales.
Washington and Boston also continue to feel very good while Philadelphia has flattened out in the past couple of quarters more small-shop tenant failures relative to the other regions in Philly.
You might recall from my past comments that Philly held up remarkably well during the depths of the recession but it seems to be acting weaker now; stable just not growing all that much.
It is so important to have a diversified portfolio not just by tenant concentration but by regional concentration and retail property type too.
The portfolio remains 93.8% leased flat with last year but up from the fourth quarter.
You should also expect physical occupancy to decline for the year as the recently executed deals begin to be delivered.
On the operating side of our business all is clicking along very well for the time being.
On the acquisition side of our business nothing new that's imminent though we're doing a lot of looking.
But I will say that the integration of our last -- of the 2 large year-end purchases have gone very well with meetings with both current and prospective tenants confirming our due diligence and validating our optimism about creating value at both Montrose Crossing and at Plaza El Segundo.
At PES specifically we're getting closer and more optimistic that we do in fact have a development that will work financially.
Preliminary costs retailer demand and rents seem to make sense on that hard corner of Rosecrans and Sepulveda.
More on that in future quarters.
On the development side construction on 2 major projects is underway with a third scheduled for a summer start.
The first of that is Santana Row where we've broken ground on our large $70 million-plus 212-unit residential building professionally called Building 8B at the moment and we expect it to be done in 20 months with 2014 being the first stabilized year with a 7% plus on levered yields.
By the way the 108-unit building that we completed late last year called Levare is already 100% leased.
It took just 5 months to get there.
Rents exceeded estimates and will earn an unlevered 9% return on that $34 million investment.
Looking forward at Santana planning is aggressively underway for additional retail office and residential investments somewhere around -- totaling somewhere around $225 million on the Santana Row site.
We hope to be underway on all of those pieces leading to a full build-out over the next handful of years.
There's a lot of value still to be created at Santana.
Second and across the country just outside of Boston Assembly Row is now under construction.
AvalonBay is driving pilings on the first of their residential buildings.
We'd begun construction on the large building that will house among other things a parking garage and theater and track work has begun in preparation of the new T-stop.
Expect a 2014 opening on this first phase with the opening of the new T-stop trailing by 6 to 12 months.
Retail leasing interest is very strong both from outlet tenants and restaurants and we'll start to report on and name tenants as we move through negotiations the letters of intent the signed deals.
We're very excited to be underway at Assembly.
And thirdly over the summer I expect to be able to report a construction start at Mid-Pike Plaza where the first phase of our new mixed-use development called Pike &amp; Rose will kick off.
No changes to budget or timing on this one either $250 million for the first phase with the expectation of a late 2014 opening.
As you can see a lot's going on for Federal over the next few years: a $0.5 billion of development dollars for the initial phases of existing retail destinations that we've controlled for years; an operating platform firing on all cylinders; new acquisitions with leasing and redevelopment opportunities to exploit; and an open aggressive eye  for more.
We're proud of our performance in what's still a very uneven recovery.
We're really looking forward to the ICSC convention in Las Vegas later this month.
We've got a lot of product to promote what with leasing at Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose in full swing and a very proactive approach to expand our relationships and showcase opportunities throughout the portfolio Vegas should be particularly productive this year.
If you're out there make sure you stop by and say hello.
So we sure hope to see many of you at Santana Row the week before which is just next week as we host our first West Coast investor tour in a decade.
Hope you'll come it will be worth it.
That's it for my prepared remarks today.
Great quarter shaping up to be a great year in a modestly improving economy.
Now let's hear from Andy Blocher.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everybody.
The $1.04 of FFO per share in the first quarter was a record quarterly result driven by continued strong operating performance 5.5% same-center property operating income growth excluding redevelopments and 5.9% including redevelopments which included a continuation of low levels of bad debt a lack of snow in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast higher percentage rents and somewhat higher-than-normal lease term fees.
The results came with no associated occupancy improvement.
Let me provide some of the details of the quarter that we can discuss the balance sheet before going through the assumptions behind our increased guidance.
Minimum rent increased $7.8 million over the first quarter 2011.
$1.2 million of that minimum rent increase came from the redevelopment pipeline as both Levare the 108-unit residential building which opened at Santana in October is now fully leased; and 300 Santana Row the retail office building contributed significantly to that result.
The redevelopment of Escondido Promenade in Southern California where we replaced a vacant Mervyn's with a new Dick's and Ross also continued to contribute to our redevelopment performance.
Minimum rent increases were net of the impact of activities that hurt current period performance but will positively impact future performance including taking a portion of Shoppers World out of service to make way for the redevelopment there and Mid-Pike where demolition will take place as we begin construction of Pike &amp; Rose in the next few months.
And the Huntington Shopping Center as new vacancy was created as we execute the significant re-tenanting that Don discussed.
While not in the same-center pool minimum rent increases also include the benefit from owning Plaza El Segundo and Montrose Crossing for the entirety of the first quarter.
Net of financing these acquisitions contributed about $0.01 to first quarter FFO per share.
Recoveries declined $1.9 million despite the addition of the acquisition properties due to lower snow removal costs in the first quarter of '12 compared to 2011.
The impact of lower snow was approximately $0.01 to FFO per share when you net the lower recoveries against the lower rental expenses.
We also saw an increase in percentage rent as a number of our tenants have seen significant year-over-year sales increases particularly at Santana Row and Bethesda Row which contributed to our 4.6% increase in rental income.
Other property income increased $2.3 million largely from an increase in lease term fees off of historical -- historically low levels we saw in 2011.
In providing our 2012 earnings guidance assumptions in November I had indicated that we expected to see an increase in lease term fees throughout the year and this quarter we did.
On the expense side we saw a 5.9% decrease in rental expenses despite the addition of the acquisition properties with the bulk of it coming from the lower snow that I already discussed as well as the continuation of our decreased levels of bad debt that we've seen from the past several quarters.
The strong performance of our core portfolio as measured by our same-center growth is predictably noteworthy considering the positive same-center growth that we produced on an annual basis throughout the economic downturn.
There are no easy comps here.
As we anticipated interest expense increased $3.7 million as the loans related to Plaza El Segundo and Montrose Crossing's acquisitions came online late in '11 and with the full quarter's expense from the $275 million term loan we executed in November.
In total funds from operations increased 8.8% to $66.7 million and 5.5% on a first-year basis to a record $1.04 result.
Moving on to the balance sheet for a moment we had limited capital markets activity in the quarter as we raised $21 million through the ATM at an average price of $96.58 in the first quarter.
At the end of the quarter we maintained approximately $50 million of excess cash on the balance sheet we have full availability on our $400 million revolving credit facility and have great access to both debt and equity capital alternatives.
With only $192 million of debt coming due in 2012 and another $197 million coming due in 2013 we remain in a great position to finance our upcoming debt maturities and fund our large pipeline in development while maintaining our flexibility to fund additional acquisitions without negatively impacting our high-quality balance sheet.
Our diligence in managing the balance sheet was recognized by Moody's in January when they placed our Baa1 corporate credit rating on positive outlook followed by S&amp;P putting our BBB+ credit rating on positive outlook in April and Fitch upgrading our unsecured debt rating to A- just a few days later.
All of these ratings actions contemplated the quality of our real estate the consistency of our portfolio results but despite the economic downturn and our approach to managing both operating and financial risk over the long term.
The upgrade to A- places Federal Realty in rarefied air.
There's only 2 other U.S.
REITs that have achieved this rating.
The impact of these ratings' actions only increases the financial flexibility we have as we address our future financing.
Finally we increased our 2012 FFO per share guidance to a range of $4.24 to $4.29.
The assumption changes to the new range include a 75 to 100 basis-point increase in overall occupancy in 2012 versus a previous assumption of 50 to 75 basis points.
These occupancy increases are expected as we execute the redevelopment of the Shoppers World the re-tenanting in Huntington.
And as we deliver the Border backfills about Santana Row and Friendship Center.
Cash basis lease rollovers for '12 in the 10 -- or we're expecting in the 10% to 15% range which would be the strongest rollovers we've seen since 2008.
Same-center property operating income growth in the 3% to 4% range the top end of an increase of 50 basis points from the guidance we provided last quarter and increased common shares outstanding reflecting the $21 million of shares issued through the ATM in the first quarter of '12.
We're certainly very pleased with quarter results and our prospects for the future.
And with that operator we'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like there's a lot of activity surrounding your Pike &amp; Rose site.
I wonder if you could describe some of that development activity in that general area and all the things that are going on.
Sure Craig.
The White Flint district which encompasses -- which starts down by Lerner's mall and then comes up a hill and peaks right at the top where our property is at the corner of Old Georgetown and Rockville Pike is all under -- will be under development at some point over the next few years because it's all part of the overall sector plan.
And so there -- this will be identification if you will of an entire area.
There are -- there's more residential list programs.
Some of those other companies I'll be doing that include -- at JBG will be in there.
The Lerners themselves will be in there as part of that and there are a number of other developers who are part of that project part of the overall district.
So you'll see more residential.
There will be more office and certainly more retail.
And one of the things that we are doing as part of this is we've been very very involved in this process all the way through.
In fact Evan Goldman and Don Briggs our 2 guys who really have marshaled this thing beautifully frankly all the way through have a great relationship with all the other partners.
So I think if you look at this area Craig 10 years from now you won't believe the transformation.
But we certainly will be in the ground first in terms of new stuff as part of the district and so we'll be delivering in 2014 ahead of most others.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just -- I'm just wondering if you're at a place with Assembly Row that you have a sense of the mix of restaurants outlet tenants and other? I mean what would the breakout be by those sort of 3 categories? Yes in total we're putting in another 325 000 square feet there and most of it is going to be outlet.
And so you'll see roughly a -- not sure I have the breakout exactly right here 150 on outlet and then you'll see service and you'll see the theater which takes a big piece of it.
The theater itself takes 62 000 of that away and the rest will be service and restaurants.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Andy I just wanted to follow up on the maturity schedule.
With regard to the $175 million of notes you have coming due this summer is that something you would look to refi in the public bond market or maybe with a bank unsecured term loan? And can you talk about sort of the potential cost of these options if you've had preliminary discussions at all? Yes Christy.
We have the ability through the accordion feature on the term loan.
That market is drying up to some extent on the 7-year basis.
And at this point I think it make sense for us to go as long as we possibly can based on where the market is currently.
We're in a very good position where we're currently contemplating long-term debt equity financing or a combination of both.
From a near-term FFO perspective the impact between long-term debt and equity has really minimal impact on FFO.
And one of the things that we haven't seen yet is any real trading in our bonds since Fitch upgraded us to A- and that's something that I want to get a better handle on but indicative pricing currently on the 2 -- on the new 10-year note would probably be in the sub-4% range.
And if we were to go really long and go out to call it 30 years we can go out and do something in the 5 1/4% range.
So we're thinking through that right now.
We're blessed with having a lot of options.
It all comes down to the quality of the balance sheet but we haven't affirmatively made a decision yet.
Research Division</strong> Given some of the low rates that we've seen on some of the REIT preferred deals lately is that an option that you'd consider? Certainly we consider everything.
The issue with respect to the preferreds is I feel like I get kind of a REIT market price with respect to the preferreds which doesn't fully contemplate all the qualities that we have which are reflected in things like senior unsecured notes and certainly with respect to our equity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the lease term fees can you attribute this quarter's volume to any specific tenants or movements within the portfolio? And I think last quarter you gave a range of $2 million to $3 million for the year.
Is that -- does that still hold? I think that the range that we're talking about is probably going to be in the $3 million to $4 million range.
There were -- there was one lease term fee in particular for a tenant down at Third Street that was the biggest part of it.
It was about $1.8 million of the $2.4 million total.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly at what point did the H&amp;M take occupancy at Santana Row? H&amp;M will be taking occupancy early this summer when we're done with our work.
And they should -- we anticipate that they'll be opening in the fall of this year before the holidays.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the upgrade to the A- you had mentioned that this enhances your financial flexibility.
But just sort of curious with the higher metrics that you need for the A- are you guys well within those so that if you pursue your development and redevelopment it's really a nonissue? Or does the upgrade mean that you have to rejigger some things to stay within the new parameters? Yes Alex great question.
One of the things that I'm most proud of with respect to our upgrade is when we sat down and met with all 3 rating agencies we were very upfront about the development pipeline we provided conservative guidance as to how it could potentially be funded.
And the fact of the matter is if you read through all 3 of the 2 positive outlooks and the upgrade from Fitch it notes that we need to maintain metrics that we've effectively been maintaining for 3 to 5 years.
So it's not a matter of we ran our business in order to get to this upgrade.
The upgrade is a logical conclusion from the way that we've been running our business.
So there are no material changes in the way that we're thinking about the balance sheet and no changes in the way that we're running things like those development projects which is it's the best way that we can get there.
It's just the logical outcome from the way that we're running our business.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the re-leasing schedule on Page 19 maybe this is from the Huntington activity but new leases were up pretty big renewals were sort of flattish but TIs for both were up big from the prior quarters.
Is this just Huntington or were there some other things going on in the quarter? Three big things Alex that impacted that.
Huntington for sure had some good-sized numbers there.
Also Shoppers World where we're in the middle of that redevelopment.
So technically we got a little bit of double counting going on there because it's in the TI number but it's also considered on the redevelopment schedule on the capital there.
But that's just kind of how it shows.
Those 2 were big.
And then on the renewals the big number on the renewal was the renewal that we did decide to do for Gucci a 10-year deal out at Santana.
We did agree to a deal that did include a lot of capital and we did that to lock them in for 10 years at the property to be able to lease off of them as sales of the rest of property continue to rise.
So those 3 things were significant capital contributors.
You take them out we still have double-digit rent growth.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just final question is when we speak to Washington D.C.
office brokers they're pretty bearish and actually surprisingly bearish even given all the headlines.
Are you seeing anything in your retail portfolio that's commensurate with the bearish activity that the office guys are talking about? Or is retail in the D.C.
Metro market neighborhoods just sort of a different parallel universe and not really affected by the slowdown that's going on? Alex I think that's right.
I can tell you I heard the same thing and so I've been particularly wary and trying to look for signs within the retail portfolio of softening or some of the same things that the office guys are seeing.
I do not see them.
And kind of the results quarter after quarter seem to suggest that.
I will tell you that the one thing that has become crystal clear is that at least on the retail side there's not -- the quality of the location is more important than ever that the retailers are stepping up for the best locations.
They are not stepping up nearly as much though for the secondary locations including not even -- not taking it because they're not taking the part -- or grabbing the lesser rent at the secondary locations.
They're just ignoring the secondary locations more and more and only choosing the primary.
So we haven't seen it in our portfolio but I think if you talk to others with portfolios you may get a different answer.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnell with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I can just -- just maybe build off Alex's question a little bit.
I think Andy you touched on this.
First congratulations on the upgrade in the quarter.
I just -- I guess I'm curious how much of that shift was driven by just the timing of having Pike &amp; Rose and a Sunday square materialize around the same point in time? Maybe it's important to be taking down your leverage as you have those 2 large projects going on? Yes Jeff I don't really see it that way.
I see -- the way that we presented it to the rating agencies was very much just a balanced approach.
I think that we've demonstrated that over the long term even prior to having the ATM.
I think in the previous 8 years we have raised equity 6 times in those previous 8 years.
We've been very much focused on the unsecured debt markets and not so much on the secured debt markets.
I just -- I don't think that that -- I really saw that as a possible impediment that they got very very comfortable with not the size and scope of the development and how those projects were coming online.
So I don't necessarily view that as a positive or a negative.
LLC Research Division</strong> And maybe just a broader question about your leverage philosophy.
I mean I know you guys just got the rating upgrades.
I'm not asking you to depart from it.
But for a platform that doesn't take a lot of ground-up construction risk generally speaking you're not an ongoing developer traditionally and historically you have one of the lowest levels of variability in your core earnings.
I guess I'm wondering do you think an A- rating is sort of overkill if you will for the platform and maybe BBB+ is sort of more optimal for the REIT? I'm just curious of how you guys think about it.
Yes I don't necessarily know that.
It depends on the REIT.
I think that for us I mean we are a consistent performer.
And like I said the way that we think about how it is that we run the company which leads to a strong valuation includes things like the consistency of our earnings the level of the same-center pool where -- the solid base for which we have eliminated exposure to development and maintaining very well leverage.
So I don't know that you can look at any one of those pieces in isolation.
You have to look at the entire package.
Maybe Jeff just what I'd add to that is that -- and the question kind of assumes that we were looking for an A- rating and that's really not the case.
I mean the driver for us is running the business such that we can get investors comfortable with the best chance for an increasing stream of cash flows.
The fact that we've done it for a long time and of course we're always in front of rating agencies and of course we always want the highest possible rating that they will give us but it's not like the business plan changes in order to achieve a particular rating and that's kind of what I'm trying to say.
So while we're out in front of them and we always are by the way not just these last few months but regularly obviously over the years I think it has much more to do with their comfort in the company's conservative philosophies for a long time.
And so surely A- beats BBB+ from a cost perspective.
And if we were doing things that were significantly different in the business plan to achieve that A- I think your question has a lot more validity and it's really right on point.
But we haven't changed our conservative philosophy nor we do we expect it.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's fair.
Actually Don just maybe 2 more questions on ICSC.
Is there anything specific you hope to depart from ICSC with I guess a specific goal that maybe you can share with us? And then I don't know if Berkes or Briggs is on to comment but I'm also just curious for their sense or maybe you can chime in on their behalf.
I'm...
Yes.
Well I won't give you -- it's not a square footage of lease that's signed or a square footage of leases to LOI or particular things like that.
It is to significantly advance them all in the leasing of Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose.
That is the overall objective that is incremental to our normal overall objectives with respect to the rest of the portfolio which obviously still applies.
But the way ICSC is falling this year -- the way our projects are falling if you will in terms of construction starts et cetera relative to ICSC in Vegas this should be -- it's a perfect time for us to be able to showcase what it is that we're doing and to take conversations further into the LOI phase and LOI conversations further into the lease signed phase.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you have a sense -- another part was I'm sure ICSC is sort of feeling better than last year and the year prior.
But do you have a sense how or a way of measuring how maybe this upcoming ISCS year maybe compares to the years prior to 2008 and '09? Not a clue and let me -- not a clue.
It seems like every manager has asked that every single year every leasing person has asked that.
And I can honestly tell you other than attendance numbers that I get through ICSC and how qualitatively the place feels those are really the only measurements.
It is so hard to be able to -- and you may read in the paper quotes from guys that say "Wow this was the greatest ICSC in the history of ICSC " or "It felt a little softer." So they're such subjective comments that the proof really is in the ensuing 6 to 9 months of lease productivity that includes ICSC as well as a whole lot of other factors.
So real hard to get a gauge on what you're trying to ask.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just last question on Assembly Square.
Is there a final final date if you will when IKEA has to move ahead on their project? And I guess if they don't is it fair to say that you guys are the logical buyer? I guess I'm wondering is there a reason why you wouldn't want to buy that land? You just took it a little further than I'm willing to say right now.
But yes listen the decision by IKEA from what I understand is if imminent is too strong it's not too far off.
It's within a few months off.
I've heard rumblings that they're not going to go forward.
I've heard other rumblings that they're not finished yet with their decision-making process and it's going to be what it's going to be.
I can tell you there are a number of things.
With the team starting and with the response that we've gotten thus far with our leasing.
It's not nearly as important as it used to be.
If they don't go forward certainly we'll want it.
We certainly have an interest in what happens on that piece of real estate from a standpoint of investing on it.
But I suspect we won't be alone.
There'll be others that would be all over that too.
Your next question comes from the line of Cedric Lachance with Green Street Advisory.
About 1 year ago you hired Michael Khouri to go after mall tenants specifically.
So looking back over the last year can you give us a sense of the progress you've made in terms of attracting mall tenants to your properties? I sure can.
In fact I'm going to start and then I'm going to ask Chris to finish that.
You may or may not know that Khouri was wooed over to Vornado 4 or 5 weeks ago Cedric.
I don't know if you knew that and they were able to give them a bigger job.
And at least up until Steve's letter potentially more of a future.
I don't know we'll have to see.
But Khouri did a great job for us.
And it wasn't only in the matter of getting mall tenants effectively to sign leases with us.
But it was more that he got a lot of mall tenants to compete for spaces with existing tenants that we had.
So that helped in -- I'm guessing this number I probably should do this even a little bit better somewhere between 25 and 30 leases where there was more competition effectively more demand for space.
Because what Khouri was bringing in to compete with are existing leasing agents for the existing tenant in the space.
So even if that mall tenant didn't come in and in a number of cases they did the economics that we wound up being able to get from the existing tenants was significantly better because that's what competition does.
Chris anything you want to just add? I would just add in that he was very productive in producing some new deals for us with smaller-unit retailers.
He really helped with our North Face deal in Bethesda Row.
He helped us get Chili's teed up for the deal that I mentioned at Huntington as well as 1 or 2 more that you may hear about in the future as well as exposure to Crazy 8s which is a retailer that we've got in some other centers.
So we -- I think Michael was very productive and it was a great program that we're following.
Okay.
And in terms of looking forward will you be replacing him and will you continue that initiative as actively as you have over the past year? Cedric it's a great question I tried to get there before you even asked it.
And we've talked about that ad nauseam here.
We'd love to replace that role.
Replacing that role is not easy.
Finding the right person for that particular spot is not easy and Michael fit it like a glove.
So we can't just bring in if you will a mall guy.
That kind of won't fit in over here and only takes -- only creates disharmony if you will on the team.
So it's got to be the right guy.
But we will actively look to replace that role whether it's put together the same way we had with Michael or whether it's incorporated in a different -- within a different function with leasing I'm not sure.
But it was a very valuable role and we'll need it to keep going forward.
Okay.
And I think Don it looks over the past year you've been I think conservative and guiding people in terms of expectations for longer-term re-leasing spreads and longer-term NOI growth.
But when I look at the environment it seems to be consistently improving.
If you look back versus 1 year ago would you say that your expectations for longer-term same-store NOI have increased? And if so by how much do you think you've increased? Cedric if you go back and you read my conference call comments starting from the third quarter of 2011 you'll see that I clearly became more bullish and more optimistic as I saw some results and some things I knew that were in the pipeline coming forward.
That did improve those expectations and that was consistent in terms of what I said in the last third quarter call fourth quarter call and that's certainly again in this call.
So clearly I am feeling more bullish.
What I'm not willing to say yet is whether I believe that over the next 5 years over the next 7 years that retail leasing if you will is out of the woods because I don't know that yet.
I want to see some more time pass.
I still believe that the -- and I very much believe that the country is over retailed.
I still believe that that is the consistent and will continue to be.
And so what that does is just make me and our whole team a lot more picky if you will about what deals we're doing what -- from an acquisition side from a leasing side from a development side.
Because you better be in a place where demand exceeds supply like Huntington.
And there's just not -- there's a lot more places where supply exceeds demand.
I wish I could tell you move up your long-term NOI growth numbers from 2% to 2.7% but I'm not in that frame of mind yet I'm sorry.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First of all Andy on the balance sheet is there anything in earnings guidance for additional equity for the balance of the year? Yes.
Mike I tried to make it clear.
Apparently I didn't when I was answering Alex's question.
From -- it's the reason why I made the comment earlier from an FFO perspective.
The yield on the debt and the yield on the equity are somewhat comparable.
Just from an FFO perspective I'm not going to say that it's the same long-term cost.
So both of those alternatives are contemplated within the range.
Obviously like I said earlier we haven't seen trading in the bonds to reflect the A- rating from Fitch.
I want to see that before we make a determination as to which path we're going to proceed under.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just thinking about equity over the next few years with the development pipeline I mean should we think of it such that you got an ATM and that's a nice way to help fund the development over time as the capital requirements come up? And maybe if there's something a little bit larger on the acquisition side that's how you would think more about traditional equity offering to help fund that? Yes.
I mean the couple of things that would drive us from utilizing the ATM to kind of a standard way overnight type of deal would be the amount of equity that we wanted to get and the timing under which we wanted to get it.
So if there is a determination that we need to get a bunch of it very very quickly that would be an indication of a regular way offering.
The ATM has really just been a supplement to our capital-raising activities so we found useful in doing some matching and hitting the market in order to fund certain capital needs.
The other thing I'd like to add to that Mike is what's your big picture what you ought to be thinking of is that upon delivery as those developments are put into service we certainly expect our balance sheet to look similar to the way it looks today.
And so certainly there may be a couple of bumps along the way in terms of a bigger equity slug or a bigger debt slug depending upon the marketplace.
We're going to end up where we want to end up in a very similar position than we are today coming 3 and 4 years ago as we -- 3 and 4 years from now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And going back to a prior question where you're talking about CapEx but you also touched on the leasing spreads.
If we look at the new leasing spreads that I think were up about 30% or so on a cash basis was there something 1 or 2 tenants that was driving that as we've seen in the past? Or was it a little bit more broad based this quarter? No.
It was -- in addition to the things I talked about before in Huntington where we had some great leasing spreads they are the same way at Shoppers but we put in capital to get them.
If you kind of took all that stuff out and you look at the balance it was definitely more broadly based.
And so -- and that has been a continuation of a trend.
As I say other than Philadelphia Philly has been flatter over the last 3 quarters 3 and 4 quarters basically than it was earlier.
So other than Philadelphia which was pretty flat the balance was broad based and stronger.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
I wasn't sure if your comments were more specific to TIs or if you were incorporating spreads on that as well.
And then last question Andy on the same-store NOI numbers if you would isolate the impact of snow I mean how significant or how much of a change would there have been to the year-over-year comps? I mean snow would be call it 50 to 75 basis points.
[indiscernible] What Don was saying is basically $0.01 a share but 50 to 75 basis points on the same-store growth number.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Michael Bilerman Quentin's here as well.
Just thinking about the disbursements of capital for the development how do you sort of see that evolving over the next sort of 2 years in terms of when the big capital outlays will come? And I'm asking that just in a sense of how we should think about the pre-funding on the equity basis which we've sort of danced around a little bit on the call? It's -- I'll tell you Mike it is very -- it's pretty even spread when you start with the fourth quarter or so of this year.
But it really gets going into the four quarters of 2013 and then the first 2 quarters or so of 2014 '13 and '14.
It is pretty evenly spread and you'll see it going out both at Assembly and you'll see it at Mid-Pike.
Mid-Pike will be the bigger driver because it is -- we're doing all of our capital $250 million.
At the same time you'll see the residential outflow in the earlier part at Santana Row.
So when you balance all this together there won't be the need for a big chunk of capital to be funded in any particular corner.
At least that's how we certainly plan it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you think about $460 million of new capital because you've already spent $88 million over the course of 7 quarters or 6 quarters? Yes.
Use 8 quarters because there will be a lag.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so you have a little bit of free cash flow that you're generating call it $50 million a year for that.
That certainly helps on an equity side.
I think Andy you have about $140 million left on the ATM? Yes actually we -- either we have or we will have as part of our new shelf registration of recharge the ATM back to $300 million.
But we will keep using the ATM Mike.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay so it sounds like yes things could go either way in terms of doing an offering and pay down existing debt and no FFO impact just given where the stock trades.
Or potentially just wait and just do ATM as you fund your development and use your free cash flow that way? Right.
All -- those are basically the alternatives correct.
Research Division</strong> And when -- the $13 million that's maturing this year when did those maturities occur? By July.
July.
Research Division</strong> In July.
So it sounds like everything is going to come to a head pretty soon in terms of making decisions? That's correct.
And Michael remember we have $50 million of excess cash on the balance sheet and an undrawn $400 million revolver.
So that provides flexibility as well to the extent that marketing conditions change.
Research Division</strong> And where sort of -- in terms of the metrics that the agencies have put forth towards you in terms of debt to EBITDA debt to a sort of gross asset value.
Where is sort of their comfort range relative to the current ratings? Comfort range I mean I guess Fitch most importantly because they're the ones at A-.
Kind of a 5.5 range for debt to EBITDA fixed charge in the 3x type of range and absolute leverage about where we have it now.
As I said in my earlier comments if you go back and look historically which I think they referenced in their release that they put out for this you'll see that's really where we've been over the period of time and the only time that we really got out of that is as an example fourth quarter of last year when we took on all of the debt with no associated EBITDA with PES and Montrose Crossing.
So we are running our business the way that we would typically run our business.
We just get the benefit associated with the better rating.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Don just in terms of next week you sound pretty excited for the Investor Day.
And going into the West Coast you said first time in a decade to do a big tour out there for the company.
What's the goal for next week? I mean what do you want people to come back with after they've been out there and seeing the assets and heard you speak? Yes I want them to see how much future potential there is at Santana Row and I want them to see how much future potential there is at West Gate and what is -- I want them to meet the West Coast team.
Because I think that look a lot of investors are New York-based and when you do get out to California you get out to L.A.
you get out to San Francisco.
And so a lot of investors still think of Santana Row as that big development project that Federal Realty did.
But the bottom line is this has been a stable operating asset now for 10 years.
And showing how that has matured and when you look at how that has matured plus now is the time to build out the balance of it over the next 5 years or something like that I think you'll be -- I think investors will be very excited about that.
I know I get very excited every time I go out there.
So the ability to get a big group I think we've got 60 or so of Federal Realty investors and some of them are our largest most influential investors coming to that.
So to be able to make that real and not just 0.5 hours in a wheat pack [ph] suite or something at NAREIT is a whole lot different.
We're really excited about it.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Stephen here with Paul.
I had a quick question about the cash rollovers.
You talked about  expectations of 10% to 15% in 2012.
How much of a driver will junior anchor re-leasing upside be? Yes.
I mean we don't have that breakdown specifically on a go-forward basis Stephen.
I'm happy to pull it and we can...
I can tell you Stephen it's always a driver.
It's always going to be an important part of the lease rollover.
And whenever -- basically when you look it's pretty regularly 2/3 of what it is that we do is in renewals and 1/3 is in new leases.
And that varies a little bit but that's basically what happens throughout the company.
When you look at those new leases which is where we do expect to see some good increases in some of the deals that we're doing they will move the numbers.
They also tend to move the numbers for the small shop tenants around them.
So you see -- this all hangs together in this business particularly at Federal shopping centers because they're not power centers.
They'll have 2-year anchors with a lot of small shops around them restaurants other types of uses.
So you'll see it all together.
But clearly junior anchors will play a big part of it.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
Have you seen -- have you kind of been involved in any discussions about downsizing that some of the other strips and other landlords are focused on? No -- certainly every conservation we have with every retailer is all around where you guys are going what you're trying to do.
We're trying to obviously match their needs with our haves if you will.
And not surprisingly that those conversations largely start with a location.
And the better the location the more flexibility of how much how far off prototype they'll go whether -- how creative they're willing to be.
Can we do 2 floors stuff.
All that kind of stuff goes with it.
But I can tell you we're extremely involved with every retailer that we deal with in terms of understanding where it is that their next prototype is going.
And certainly it's why one of the big reasons I believe that the country's over retailed.
I absolutely believe that smaller GLA is in the DNA for a lot of retailers.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my last question is could you provide an update on the acquisitions pipeline? Yes.
As I said I think nothing imminent right now but lots of stuff happened out there.
Is Jeff Berkes on the call from California? Yes Don I'm on.
Hey Paul.
Hey Stephen.
It's like we talked about last quarter it's slim pickings and skinny returns right now and that really hasn't changed.
And given that we had a big year last year particularly given that we closed 2 big deals right at the end of the year which we're very happy with we're looking hard but don't see or haven't yet seen a real reason to stretch and pay the prices that others are paying for some of these assets that don't have a good go-forward growth profile in our view so we'll continue to be patient.
We'll continue to use a couple of arrows in our quivers that others don't have which is a great structuring capability and a balance sheet that allows us to take on some secured debt if we need to and pull the trigger when we find something that we really like.
I'd give you one real-life example.
There's a -- we're not naming the property there's a property in our backyard here in Rockville that is on the Pike on Rockville Pike that is being marketed that we are -- we didn't feel the same way as we felt about Montrose Crossing which was a dominant big piece of land great corner et cetera which we would stretch for to get it done.
This one is much smaller.
It's much less important frankly to the job of leasing on the Pike.
And we were in there up to a number that seemed to make sense for us and we got blown out of the water is what we hear.
And so we're -- we were out it and there's a lot of other people chasing it and they're going to pay a big number.
But we're pickier it's just not dominant enough.
So if we're buying it it -- we have to be confident that demand will exceed supply so it's got to be a dominant shopping center.
Yes I mean just to put a sightly finer point on it if we don't see a prospect of growing NOI going forward let's forget about cap rate for a minute because yields on everything are low right now.
But if there's not a good go-forward growth story with the asset we're not going to buy it.
And we just haven't seen anything in the last few months other than the stuff we closed last year that we really liked from that perspective.
At this time Ms.
Lennox there are no further questions.
You may continue.
Thanks and thank you everyone for today.
We're looking forward to seeing you next week.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce the conference leader Ms.
Kristina Lennox.
Maam you may begin.
Good morning.
Id like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realtys second quarter 2012 conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Andy Blocher Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster Jim Taylor and (inaudible).
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our second quarter 2012 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the Trusts operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realtys future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial conditions and results of operation.
Now Id like to turn the call over to Andy Blocher who will begin our discussion of second quarter 2012 results.
Andy? Thanks Kristina and Good morning everybody.
$1.04 of FFO per share in the second quarter matches our record first quarter 2012 result and again was driven by continued strong internal growth which include a higher portfolio occupancy and a continuation of low level of bad debt.
Let me provide some of the details of the quarter then we can discuss the capital market activities before going through the assumptions behind our increased guidance and the dividend increase.
Property operating income increase $8.5 million versus second quarter 2011 $5.1 million came for 2011 acquisition the Plaza El Segundo and Montrose Crossing.
On a same-center this property operating income increase 3.5% including redevelopment and 2.7% excluding redevelopment.
Increases in the same center portfolio were driven by improvements in minimum rents through year-over-year occupancy gains and redevelopments coming online such as 300 Santana Row and Levare the latest residential building at Santana Row.
Increases in other property income were driven by lease termination fees.
You may recall that weve been guiding to increase other property income in 2012 and establishing guidance in November.
One just want to go through our improved 2012 guidance.
We continue to see low absolute levels of bad debt.
The second quarter bad debt increased on a comparable basis based on the very tough second quarter 2011 comp.
So roughly $5 million increase in interest expense for the second quarter 11 largely comes from mortgage loans associated with the acquisitions of Plaza El Segundo and Montrose Crossing we did last year.
In total funds from operations increase 3.9% to $66.8 million and 2% on a per share basis to $1.04 results in the second quarter.
On a year-to-date basis FFO was up 6.3% and 3.5% on a per share basis.
Very strong operating performance reflecting the strength of our market and the relative strength of our properties within those markets.
Moving on to the balance sheet for a moment.
In mid July we retired $175 million of 6% notes utilizing proceeds from our $250 million 10-year unsecured notes issuance.
The 3% coupon on our notes represents the lowest coupon ever executed by any REIT in the REIT market for a 10-year term.
Demand for the issue was significant which allowed us to increase the targeted size from $150 million to $250 million and tightened pricing significantly throughout the execution process.
I couldnt happier to have this deal be my last step on markets transaction for the Trust as I believe it represents the combination of all the significant positive changes weve made at Federal Realty over the nearly 12 years Ive been.
We also issued another $16 million of common equity through the ATM at an average price of over $101 per share and we remain in a great balance sheet position with $80 million of cash on the balance sheet over $400 million of capacity on the credit facility no significant debt maturities until late 2013 and demonstrated access to both debt and equity capital at historically attractive prices.
With our strong year-to-date performance and visibility for the remainder of the year we increased our 2012 FFO per share guidance to a range of 427 to 431.
A big driver of this increase is the result of the positive $0.02 per share net impact were expecting from the combination of the payment were able to receive from Safeway to facilitate the sale of many of its Genuardi stores to Giant Don will go through this in more detail in a moment which will be reflected as a $0.09 improvement in our third quarter results.
The $0.05 of additional expense coming from the CFO translation and $0.02 of expected dilution coming from increased size of the debt issue and additional equity capital onto the ATM.
Other key assumptions to the new range include an improved occupancy outlook with yearend 2012 occupancy expected to approach 94% roughly 150 basis points increase from year end 2011.
These occupancy increases are coming from the redevelopment at Shoppers World the retenanting at Huntington Shopping Center where Nordstrom Rack Ulta and Tillys have been delivered.
And the backdoor of the Borders locations at both the Santana Row and Friendship Center.
The bulk of the financial impact of these occupancy improvements will be seen in fourth quarter results.
Cash basis reach all of our expectations for 2012 remain in the 10% to 15%.
Same-center property operating income growth in the 5% range including (inaudible) and increased common shares outstanding reflecting about 90 million of shares issued through the ATM for the entire year 2011.
Lastly our continued strong performance and outlook led us to increase our quarterly common dividend for the 45th consecutive year.
We increased our dividend by $0.04 per quarter of 5.8% from $0.69 to $0.73 resulting in an annualized cash dividend of $2.92 per share.
The increase is consistent with our plan to pay out 100% of taxable income comes after raising the quarterly dividend by a penny in 2010 and $0.02 in 2011.
A record of 45 consecutive years of dividend increase as well as the fact that we always pay those dividends in cash is the best indicator of the strength and stability of our core portfolio and our balanced investment strategy which will provide a consistently improving result over a very long period of time.
This record in the REIT sector was also ranks us 21st among all publically traded companies in the U.S.
this is a tremendous source pride for our Board Trustees management and employees.
Finally I just want to thank all of you for the support Ive received since the announcement of CFO transition.
I have enjoyed all of my almost 12 years at Federal Realty and extremely proud of the accomplishments my team have had especially navigating through the financial crisis over my four years here as CFO.
I built a great team here at Federal Realty that I now will continue to execute to support the business strategy going forward.
I couldnt be happier to hand the reigns of our financial organization to somebody that I know as well as Jim and trust so much.
I look forward to hopefully working with many of you again in next (inaudible).
With that Ill turn it over to Dawn.
Thanks Andy good morning everybody.
A very eventful quarter and frankly month of July for Federal in so many ways and one that really set us well for the next few years.
First we ask Jim Taylor as you know to bring a deep industry experience to Federal and join our senior team as Chief Financial Officer.
We executed $250 million 10-year unsecured bond deal the lowest coupon ever done by any REIT anywhere and anytime.
We raised our quarterly dividend for REIT rerecord 40 50 in a row and this year by significant $0.16 a share annually nearly 6%.
We broke ground on our $250 million first phase Pike &amp; Rose development here in Rockville Maryland.
At here decided not to move forward with the second Boston store on land next to our assembly road development which we feel is a net positive to our plant and we duplicated the first quarters record earnings and feel confident enough for increased earnings guidance for 2012 to the second time in two quarters.
What I like to do talk of the quarter starts around the productivity of our total lease since it provides the best window weve into the expectations for future cash flows.
Like the first quarter second quarter leasing was again pretty extraordinary with 106 deals for 356 000 feet of comparable space completed in average rate $36.08 11% higher than the $32.64 it replaced.
We had never done that many deals in the quarter before ever.
To further put the leasing block perspective we now leased 817 000 feet of space in the first half of 2012 companywide.
We release that much G&amp;A in the first six months of year just once before back in 2004 and those deals will generate $3.3 million of more rent annually then the deal they replaced that boards really well for Federal for 2013 and 2014 cash flow.
With that level of activities occupancy can help it go up and it did were now 94.2% leased and 93.4% physically occupied both up from last year and a quarter ago and theres certainly more room to go from there.
Geographically the economy in Northern California continues to gain ground with job creation in the tech sector only benefiting our residential rent tenant along with increasing tenant sales on the retail side.
Washington and Boston also continue to feel very good but Philadelphia still marginally softer stable just not growing well that much.
Its so important to have a diversified portfolio not just by tenant concentration but by regional concentration and retail property type too.
Acquisition activity remains light with a real active great quality product changing hands in our markets.
Development side of the business thats getting much focused around here as we move through this year and next.
Construction on all three of our major projects is under way.
But first is our Santana Row where were well underway on our large 70 million plus dollar 212 unit residential building.
The building will be marketed by Misora at Santana Row and we expect to be done in 20 months the 2014 being the first stabilized year with the 7% plus unlevered deal.
Looking forward planning is aggressively underway for additional retail office and residential investments totaling upwards of 225 million on the Santana Row side.
We hope to be underway on all of those pieces leading the full build out over the next several years.
So a lot of values still to be created here.
Second and across the country just outside of Boston Assembly Row is under construction.
AvalonBay is progressing on the first of their residential buildings.
We began construction on the large building that will house among other things a parking garage and theater.
And NBCA has begun track work in preparation of the new T-Stop.
We expect a 2014 opening on this first phase with the opening of the new T-Stop trailing by 6 to 12 months.
Retail leasing interest has a real momentum and well be making some tenant announcements later in the year.
In terms of IKEAs a recent announcement the Forgo second Boston store area store on the land adjacent to the assembly well have some decision to make if this plays out although be very clear that IKEAs decision was not a surprise and weve been working under the assumption that they wouldnt be building on that plot for some time.
Through discussions with potential retail tenants and others we dont expect this decision can navigably impact the leasing of our product and the lease.
IKEA has expressed their intention to sell the parcel and well certainly stay very close to the process but we have and all decided that will compete for it more to come on that in that regard as we move forward to the year or next.
And thirdly we recently brought Mid-Pike Plaza where the first phase of a new mixed-used development called Pike &amp; Rose is underway.
No changes to budget or timing on this one either $250 million for the first phase with the expectations of a late 2014 opening for a couple of the mix use buildings that were doing and the larger residential building following after that.
As I said earlier its surely been an active summer for us and three access in particular will impact our earnings this year and therefore our earnings guidance as Andy talked about.
The first involves the frictional cost that inevitably come for the senior management change and a transition from Andy Blocher to Jim Taylor will be no different.
The combination of Jim signing bonus and the severance and the duplication of the payroll for the balance of the year will result in nearly $3 million or $0.05 per share that wasnt anticipated earlier in the year.
Most of their change will be recorded in the third quarter.
Secondly the combination of very favorable debt and equity markets coupled with visible capital needs for the development program that were now underway on have caused us to move up the timing of our financing.
That was the reason we upside the most recent bond offering we did the $250 million from $150 million and we originally planned why we hope to raise about $50 million or so of additional equity in the second half of the year than we first thought and then Ill probably come to the ATM program.
While prudent and extremely beneficial long term the result will be dilutive relative to our forecast by a couple of cents a share.
And finally and a testament to the quality of our locations and the resultant strong lease language that comes from that.
We received a $6 million and $0.09 share payment from our tenant Safeway necessary to facilitate their sale of certain Genuardis food store locations to Giant of Carlisle.
Giant of Carlisle is a unit of Royal Ahold.
That payment was uncertain till a few weeks ago when the transaction was approved by the Federal Trade Commission and ultimately closed.
It is an effective lease termination fees and will be reflected in property revenues in third quarter.
Those three events and plans the CFO transition costs the cost of the incremental capital raise or to be raised and the Safeway lease fee not to mention stronger leasing and operational activity that were seeing and the net effect of increasing our expected profits this year and therefore our earnings guidance by $0.02 a share.
As you can see theres lots going on for Federal in the next few years $0.5 billion in development for the initial phase of the existing retail destination that we controlled three years and operating platform firing on all cylinders recent acquisitions with leasing and redevelopment opportunities to exploit and an open and aggressive eye for more proud of our performance and we have still a very uneven recovery.
And one more thing before I open the call to your questions.
For the past dozen years Andy Blocher and I have worked side by side to some great times here at Federal along with some really great times here at Federal along with some really tough times and everything in between.
Weve become good personal friends and I couldnt have more respect from him as an executive partner Chief Financial Officer and a compassionate human being with the utmost integrity.
Were going to miss him a lot.
The mark you created on this company is and will continue to be evident for many many years to come.
Wish him all the best.
I want to publicly thank him for being such an integral part of Federal Realty success over the last decade.
I now like to take any questions that you might have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Yeah let me echo I guess Andy its been a pleasure working with you and I certainly wish you success in the future as well.
Don I guess as part of the CFO transition what should investors read into the hiring of Jim Taylor is there a reason you chose from Jims background that you see a need for something may be larger or more strategic in the future or I guess is there a message there? I do Jeff and there is a couple of things.
First of all Jim has been a key advisor to the company with First Union to Wachovia to well and he is still for the better part of a dozen years.
He knows the inside and out and I can tell you Ive got the utmost respect for his strategic advice and his business development expertise.
When we took Jeff Berkes and Jeff moves to the West Coast to take on the role of President of the West Coast I really felt like I was missing that here on the East Coast as a whole when Jeff went West and the opportunity to get somebody that our senior team knows as well as Jim somebody that knows this company as well somebody that every other CEO that Ive talked to has  who has called me has said man you took away my best advisor I cannot tell how many people  how many CEOs Ive heard that from the ability to have somebody like that in the CFO role is a pretty unique opportunity and one that I didnt want to pass out.
I hope that helps.
Thats helpful and just on Assembly Row a few questions do you have an update for us on leasing there I think last quarter you were saying that there is a substantial number of LOIs.
How many of those become more concrete? Yeah theyve all become more concrete but they havent become leases yet and or a few of them have but I dont want to just do a one off kind of thing so I want to buy another quarter or so and I want to basically give you a real good idea coming into this year the timing has always been the end of this year we felt we had some things to announce we will have that probably before the end of this year because thats tracking really really nicely and so Ill lay that out for you there.
I dont want you to as you think about that project Ive got some great restaurant news you have some great outlet news of the theaters you know is obviously locked in I think youre going to like the merchandising plan but I want that to cook a little bit further before we start talking about that specific.
And on the IKEA side is there a use you do not want to see there whether or not youre involved and do you think another developer can actually be competitive for that site given the complexity of the overall project and I would argue that the city probably has considerable sway in what ultimately is put there.
I absolutely think another developer could be it could be influential and are competitive rather on that side.
I mean there hasnt been a new (inaudible) up in Boston in 27 years as you know and in a 12 acre piece of land next to a development that boasts Federal Realty and AvalonBay have committed to I mean thats got to be a really attractive thing with respect to how complex it is how entitled it needs to be what it should be those are all very fair points too.
But so that balance is clearly it clearly is going to be considered by any potential owner of that land.
And like I said before we are going to look at the Jeff not defensively but offensively.
And so if there is a 12 acre site next to a great project that were working on where we can pencil something that makes sense to do then well do it to the extent that if that price goes to a crazy place or the entitlement risk and the complexity and all that stuff makes it such that there is not a deal that make any financial sense there then let somebody else do it.
And thats really is truly is how I feel about it if that I hope that helps in your thinking its offense with respect to a new development site there for Federal not defense with respect to the existing assembly project.
Just a last question on Super Value can you just give us any more specifics there I think your average in place rents about $10 a square foot I think your average anchor rent is about $16 are those situation that could trigger I guess Ill call them redevelopments if they come back to you or is it really just going to be more of the usual block and tackles releasing? Itll be a combination of both.
Were looking at eight I guess seven different units between Acme up in the Philadelphia market and Shoppers down here and Washington things like.
All of those I cant wait I would love to get them back and what we do with respect to getting them back well run the gamut as it normally does from replacing grocer in some cases to larger redevelopment possibilities that it opens up but when I look I am just looking down to the base rents.
The base rents in total for those 10 bucks a foot pretty on good 10 bucks a foot in those markets that were at with 338 000 square feet making up those seven locations yeah that will be okay.
Okay thanks guys.
You bet.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Let me just start off wishing Andy the best of luck going forward.
Thanks Craig.
On Valley Kenwood I believe the two of new anchors are LA Fitness and Giant Food now? No they have been there for a long time.
We did LA Fitness probably 10 years ago Craig something like that and thats in Acme right an Acme is one of the Acme location I was just referring to but we did and there is also Lord &amp; Taylor thats in the middle of a great new to the inside of that store and the deal we cut with Lord &amp; Taylor allowed us to add additional retail to the front of the center on the hard corner around the hard corner which is just getting done now or being leased opening up that.
Okay great and on the IKEA it would seem like you would have an advantage there because not only would you be taking advantage of the new T-Stop but as you build Assembly Row youre going to add value and if you control the land it seems like youd also be able to integrate that in the project.
I dont I am sorry let me let you ask your question go ahead.
No no I just  to me it seems like as you mentioned on the previous question that youre going to be aggressive but it just seems like to me a real opportunity much the same way when people build malls they would buy the surrounding land around that site? I couldnt agree with you more it is.
But having said that you have seen some of the deals that have happened in real estate land over the commercial real estate land over the past year and some of them are just laying crazy and to the extent it gets just laying crazy or out and so just in terms of how we look at it obviously were making a big bet on the 50 plus acres that we already own and control.
This adjacent piece as you point out correctly makes all the it makes all the sense for us we should have a competitive advantage it should work out I feel some crazy stuff going on out there and so we gotten ourselves internally very very comfortable on not owning it because it is going to be developed and most of the uses that will apply if not all the uses that will apply to that to all acres which is not appropriately known right now for a lot of those uses by the way will benefit our project next to it.
So if you were going to say to me hey Don you can go grab and you can go put something in there and you can earn a 2.5% return on it Id say no thank lets somebody else go on to 2.5% return and well benefit just quite via proximity.
So thats all I am saying.
We will look at it offensively as a new development.
Okay thanks.
Yeah.
And your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Just on the debt deal and how that might affect your kind of your view of I mean obviously it has some effect on you cost to capital it is your cost to capital but how do you think in terms of your required return on investments and both from perspective of acquisition where cap rates are obviously a lot lower but then also just your return on redevelopment? Yeah Paul its yeah I mean Ill tell you that very candidly it was eye opening.
I mean that is one great piece of paper for Federal Realty.
And there is no doubt that with our advantage in terms of cost of capital and Jim in this role and the opportunity is that are out there that you may see us being more aggressive youll certainly see us being more aggressive in terms of the number of things that were looking at.
Whether any of those effectively turn into actual deals actual things that we do remains to be seen because while we do have an advantage in terms of our cost of capital we in no way are going to get anymore lacks on the quality of that real estate which is not going to do it.
So its got to be the right product and to the extent is that right product either on the acquisition or development side I dont know as you know weve got plenty of development right now to do.
The there is no doubt that $250 million at 3.14 effective yield does impact our view on our folks capital a little bit.
And then in terms of your appetite for sort of the more complex projects given that you already have sort of a number in the works.
I mean how do you think about phasing any opportunities that would come along I mean would you look would you be interested in investing in something that would really involve starts along the same time highs as your existing projects or....
Yeah.
Its a great question Paul.
I mean the answer is no.
I mean weve got our plate is absolutely full right now with respect to that.
Now and in addition by the way the project that were working on this is not were talking about first phases right now were if we do these things right weve got we got a reservoir of opportunity for a dozen years with respect to those.
That doesnt mean that we wont look for other development opportunities in the future but we got to get these up and operating first.
On the acquisition side either at the property level or more broadly we will clearly be looking at a lot of stuff here.
And just lastly on occupancy youve continuously been in 95 range youre not there now there has been kind of the borders and other things.
But given the quality of the portfolio and the solid same-store numbers I mean what kind of visibility do you have to getting back to your kind of your traditional occupancy level? I think youll see additional occupancy gains as we move through this year.
I definitely believe that 95 95.5 for this company is pretty darn near fall off.
And we used to see some of the competitors in the heyday up in 97 97.5 frankly I think you given up rent if youre out there because you need that balance between pushing for rent in the right tenant and the vacancy is a long-term commitment.
So I would Paul I were going to see what happens with this economy over the next couple of years I can tell you right now there is good momentum.
And momentum is hard to stop and so thats why we think weve got the visibility for the balance of this year its why we raised the guidance there despite the fact of major cost of changes you imagine additional debt cost et cetera were still able to do that.
I think you should feel good.
Okay thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler ONeill.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning and Ill join in the queue with people Andy well miss you but Im sure well see you sometime in the near future.
Its not like I am dying.
Very true very true.
Just Don going back to Jeffs question Jim certainly has a different background than Andy and one is hard pressed to think of him just issuing debt once a year and doing a little ATM issuance Id imagine he would get pretty poor doing that.
Should we think about more M&amp;A more corporate activity portfolio acquisition a guy with his skill set would be ashamed not to use it so whats your take.
And then also as we think about the A minus rating how should we think about a step up in activity balancing that with the A minus rating? Thats fair.
First of all Alex  I really wish you were in this room to seen Andys reaction.
When you said just doing a dead deal once a year something like that Andy is sitting there with his arms raised so you will get a call in around noon.
Sure.
I cant wait for that call.
From...
Looks like on the JV CFO.
But listen first of all with respect to this company you know or I hope you know I hope everybody on the call knows that this company is all about balance is all about high quality real estate a steady stream of increasing cash flow and there is no one individual other than frankly in this position because I have my job that cant change that belief and that business plan of this company.
Having said that Alex clearly with Jims background he is not going to be spending as much time on the Investor Relation side as Andy does we will have to make sure that were covered there.
But it will free up time for looking at capital allocation alternatives that as you point out with Jims background should be greater than today.
That may or it may not mean that there are additional uses of the capital coming in the future it depends on what it is that we find the rating agencies who we met with absolutely understand that in terms of the discipline that is a hallmark of this company and that it would be wrong to look at that change and say oh my God there is going to be a whole bunch more stuff that gets done.
There is going to be the whole bunch more stuff that gets looked at reviewed discussed strategically reviewed that kind of thing.
But whether happened or not it is fits in the box of the Federal Realty business plan that is and has always existed fundamentally.
So thinking out three years or so you would expect Federal to look similar to as it is today or you think that it could be bigger it could enter new markets? Yes yes yes.
Okay.
I dont have to say rather than kind of the longer way Id said it.
Yes its fine okay.
And then the final question is last on the last quarters conference call you guys spoke about your redevelopment at Huntington having driven passed their recently Simon is obviously well underway at Walt Whitman.
You have a lot of road construction there on 110 and Northern Parkway what are is there any opportunity at Melville your asset there? There is its a great  as you know thats a great color.
I mean the reason Simon putting money into this into that mall is because its a very successful mall and has opportunity.
The reason were putting money is to that extent is because its a terrific ancillary use of property to the mall and has a great opportunity.
Melville is in the same categories there.
The leases are more restrictive with respect to getting some of that stuff done.
I mean as you drive by Melville you say man this is a nice piece of land it should be more that can happen there.
There may be some day but there are lease restrictions in community points of view there.
Now we have to work through and just like we do in any of our other properties well be doing that we are doing that and its in this portfolio of a pretty darn good 19.5 million square feet.
Okay thank you.
You bet.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys its Joe Dazzio here just one question so youre going to be using the ATM I guess a little bit more over the balance of the year and I was curious I guess as you look through 2015 do you have a rough estimates how much equity you think you need to raise and/or in the some kind of split you have in mind between common issuance or perhaps bringing in JV partners as a funding source.
All under review Joe all under review.
I can tell you that we found a lot of growth coming over the next few years and that not only comes from the developments that are underway on but it comes from the existing portfolio which is being leased up more is performing really well.
We got a lot of growth we got a lot of stuff to do weve got bunch of redevelopment and I mean the magic formula or part of the magic formula this company is a conservative balance sheet no question about that.
We look at all the possible opportunities that are available to us everything from common to preferred to JV equity and kind of debt interest paying to debt that was just done.
So you should not expect to see any long-term difference in the overall capitalization of the company that doesnt mean any particular quarter or any particular year for that matter doesnt see it spike one way or the other it depends on the marketplace and weve got the flexibility to use all of them.
I wish I can give you a better answer to that as we get a little further and evaluate the JV opportunity potentially along with the ATM along with overnights along with asset sales to put in there.
There will more to talk about as we go forward but I cant give you any number today.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
And your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Just quick question regards to strategically one of the thing that FRT was focused on was again kind of moving traditionally mall based retailers over to more of the shopping center feel.
And Im just kind of curious if there is any update on that initiative and if any new suspect is in regards to getting tenant to move out of the mall and more into the street mall? Tayo it is a constant focus of this company and its one that we have had pretty doing on success.
And one of the things if you remember when we talked about that what thats all about is truly trying to create additional demand incremental demand for our shopping centers particularly the more urban shopping centers the street retail stuff where weve got an easier settle that way and have an advantage of pricing effectively and tenant taxes over them all.
We have examples where I can show you that the mall tenant is operating.
We have better examples frankly where the mall tenants have looked at and helped us increase the  created a horse rates if you will on the for this retail type product.
And therefore weve gotten better rents from our existing tenant valued here both.
Thats not a onetime initiative thats a business philosophy that we continue to have.
We really made a focus on and about two years ago started that focus.
That focus is now ingrained in Chris Weilminsters leasing department.
Got it.
Thats helpful.
Just wanted to add my own comments as well Andy you will be missed and just call me anytime youre ready to go shoe shopping.
Thanks.
Well explore that deeper later.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions).
And your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Just an asset specific question in terms of Santana Row Westfield it seems theyre getting closer to doing a pretty large redevelopment expansion I believe department store in good and luxury in launch space.
How are you sort of thinking about how that might impact Santana Row once it gets out of the ground? Well I got to tell you Quentin Im going to ask Jeff to jump in here in a second.
But weve been competing with Westfield across the street now for 10 years in operations there has been nice improvements that theyve made over there there have been plans that have not happened if its great real estate and there is always going to be opportunity at Westfield or at Santana to expand to do something different.
The nice thing about this property in Santana is it has become not particularly competitive with the mall its a different story its a different product thats being offered there and it has certainly solidified itself.
So when you see the tenant sales numbers that we see increasing when youve seen the long standing dominance of its restaurant product thats there I cant when you see the residential premiums that were getting the hotel premiums that were getting I couldnt feel more positive about the future of Santana Row no matter what happens across the street with respect to Westfield and Jeff I dont know if you want to add anything to that but go for it.
Yeah still TBD is to whether or not that happens.
I think given the positioning of the anchors on the type at (inaudible) that could be in that positive for Santana Row quite frankly.
There is a lot of back and forth traffic between the property if you stand out at the entrance to Santana Row on a Saturday afternoon and look at the number of people that walk back and forth across the street its pretty impressive and having a couple of big anchors right at top of the street at Santana Row I dont think hurts us at all.
But expand on that Dons point we really go for in our minds what we view is a different tenant and thats a tenants thats really focused on their merchandize and their presentation that appreciates being in the kind of environment that we have here at Santana Row and weve specially over the last couple of years had great success.
Weve out here today you see big H&amp;M the biggest H&amp;M in the South Bay under construction in the former border space you see a brand new Fed store which looks just amazing and is off to a great start and weve got four other small shop restaurants in look through or four other small shop tenants have put through a restaurant under construction right now and over commitment of demand for the former H&amp;M space and a lot of other positive things going on that are really too premature to discuss.
So who knows whether that happens but not a huge concern from my standpoint.
Could you maybe give us an update on any progress on potentially leasing the office space around the back there on (inaudible).
Yeah youre speaking of the lot 11 space Yeah.
So from an entitlement standpoint everything is progressing as expected and on schedule.
We have a council hearing next week weve got through our planning commission here in a couple of weeks ago and got unanimous approval so from an entitlement standpoint everything is moving forward as expected construction costs are actually shaping up to be a little bit less than what we thought when we originally got into the project but we dont have everything nailed down there and tenant demand were out in the market were talking to tenants weve got interest but were not close with anybody yet.
The positive momentum is here in this part of Bay area theyre still strong so its a matter of time I think until we find the tenant thats the right fit for the building whos got the right financial statement and well go from there so everything is moving forward as expected.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
The other property income line in the quarter I think have some terming coming in what was that was that Genuardis as well or was that something different? No it was other lease termination fees from Espree and from 3rd Street Promenade from facilities at Boston at Santana this you know Rich give me a good opportunity to talk about lease termination fees as everybody like to do for a second.
I am just sitting looking this year clearly well have boy a lot of lease termination fees we view that as a wonderful thing there are very few times when we effectively get paid up upfront for leased commitments that we dont do a whole lot better in terms of the releasing of this space economically the combination of lease termination fees plus the new rent is often much better than before.
This company always will have lease termination fees as a key part of what it does thats because our leases are really strong.
And our leases are really strong not because we have the greatest orders in the world our leases are really strong because the properties are in great locations.
And so it gives us a chance to add more leverage in terms of tenants used lease changed their old operations changed they want to do a number of different things.
So the ability for us if you look at Federal that in the last year we had a low year in lease termination fees we had less than $2 million.
The year before that we had $7.5 million the year before that $6.5 million the year before that $7.5 million.
Basically over $5 million bucks a year $5.5 million bucks a year in lease termination fees over the last five years on average.
And if you look at taking that money and what has happened to those spaces in terms of the releasing.
This companys value is clearly significantly more than if those original tenants stayed in the entire time.
And the same thing is going to happen with respect to Genuardi this big we have said that we just got and frankly Ill be ready in next quarter to tell you I want to talk about all three of those deals with Genuardis and what that does to the future value of those properties and of Federal.
So I guessed I just want to make sure that any analyst who looks at the company understands the how integral lease term fees are to our business because of the strength of the underlying contract that allows us to get paid so regularly.
Thank you.
That was a great explanation.
I appreciate that.
I want to ask you if I could well were talking about the Genuardis the two as I understand from the press release went to Giant and the third is vacant is that right? Thats right they are basically Giant of Carlisle assumed certain Genuardis locations in Pennsylvania but we had three Genuardis locations two in Pennsylvania in Philly and one on the Cherry Hill side on the Jersey side in Cherry Hill called (inaudible).
Giant didnt pick that on up and so that is today still a Genuardis but will close.
Were working hard on the releasing of that and thats one of the things though little premature Genuardis hasnt been closed there yet but Im not blowing you away before we do with that along with the other two that are in Philadelphia.
Okay so the Im trying to understand exactly so the rent that you have before on the three versus the rent that you have today what is the difference in that and then how long before that changes? Windwood there is new tenant that assumed the lease so no change in rents.
No change okay.
Flowertown there will be big increase in rent and Ill get more into the detail why it is later on and Cherry Hill where the Genuardis is closing will have downtown down time for the period of time and then will have a big increase in rent.
Okay so the time to release one of the one the one thats going down will probably take a year or something like that? Yeah you can figure it 12 months sure and then well beat it.
Okay and what is the can you give the rough idea of what kind of lost rent are you talking about there? Yeah 6-700 000 bucks a year.
Okay got you.
Okay good thank you and then Don is there any other change besides the CFO plan or are you looking at other aspects of management or is it just a single...
Rich first of all if I were do you really think I would this conference call to announce it and number one and number two absolutely not.
This is an opportunistic change this is an opportunistic point in time when a senior advisors to the company became available to fill strategic needs and a business development need that we took advantage of.
I think its good smart business personally but not the idea that it push out a lot anything else would be wrong.
Okay good thank you.
Okay.
And your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Please proceed.
Yeah Michael Bilerman speaking.
Can you hear me? Yeah Mike.
Just in terms of Jim what sort of multifamily experience did you have  do you spent a lot of time multifamily with those clients? Yeah Michael its Jim.
I did I spend a lot of time with Long Bay and BRE Axes and a number of the other public companies.
My coverage really did focus a lot although I ran their group I focused a lot on both the retail and multifamily names.
And then so I guess as you sort of think about the situation and obviously has been an advisor to the company for a long time and friendly with Don I guess how do you sort of see Federal in that sense continuing to morph and keep on adding residential? Well I think if you know residential is a percent of the companys overall revenue kind of mid single-digits and I think that residential made sense for certain of the companys asset as a way to continue to drive value from the retail thats there but I dont expect the company will change this will be predominantly a resale company.
Okay.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Thanks guys.
And actually Andy dont call me if you go shoe shopping.
Actually I just had a question Don I mean just want to circle back in this as your response to earlier questions made it just sound like youre kind of mixing things up there a little bit and maybe I guess I just want to understand that a little bit better because a lot of people do rely on Federals consistency.
Should we be anticipating by that remark that you see maybe a shift in philosophy and how you think about leverage or you talked about begin bigger in different markets does that mean.....
No I didnt Jeff.
I think maybe I misspoke or you misheard or I wasnt as clear as I need to be.
There is no question that the D&amp;A that has set this company on the path that its been on for the last 10 years will absolutely continue.
That the only that there is no any person that can comment other than the CEO and I dont intend to be going anywhere that can change that philosophy.
The philosophy works I fully understand that its this steady stream of cash flow transparency consistency is that is what works and never get me to change that.
Having said that there is no doubt that having someone of Jims background is going or should be able to serve up additional activity.
That should only be a positive because its not going to happen unless they are in line with that business plan consistent with that business plan and profitable with respect to that business plan.
So I think from an investor perspective or analyst perspective in a weird kind of way if you like what Federal is then I think youre going to then it can only be upside by additional activity going through the filter that is the same filter that is made for everyone in this.
So I dont see the down.
Okay but thats helpful thank you.
You bet.
And your next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed.
Good morning Andy just like to the echo the fun sentiments and Jim welcome.
Thanks.
Focusing on the Third Street space and there was an eye opening trade in the press this week and another Third Street space granted Apple changes the equation and your space is smaller but is there anything that you can do with your space to transform the value equation? Well we got a bunch of spaces on Third Street.
If you look today at whether they are at or below market youre going to see that clearly theres a lot of money yet to me made on Third Street Promenade for us.
Do we control enough of Third Street Promenade made to be able to be transformational with respect to the street probably not probably not but when you look at the street when you look at how its impacted by the redone mall how it feels I can tell you were very very bullish on the future but that future value will come primarily from releasing to some tenants who thats one of the places where tenants want a set a flag and so there is always Ill use the word cool sometimes cool is cool most of the times cool is profitable.
Its not likely to be transformational to the whole street because we dont control the whole street were enough of it.
Okay thanks and then just going back to the management change I am going to give Andy a little more credit of being at JV CFO.
Thats good because it was going to be ugly once you hung up.
So Im just wondering with Jims skill set who is going to bring the Andy skill set to the table for you guys going forward? Describe whats your....
Well it just on the...
(Inaudible) The capital markets the accounting et cetera? Well you havent met the combination of Jim and a lady who I dont know how much youve met with and thats Melissa Solis who was our Chief Accounting Officer obviously its not going to be same as Andy it will be different.
(Inaudible).
Well itll be fine.
And with Melissa who you havent spent a bunch time with but you will more and more weve got a very very we got a start here basically.
And it will be very good for her carrier itll be very good for the people that she is dealing with in the analysts and investor community to get to know her a little bit better.
You know that one of the things I love about what Andy has done with the process is he has made sure that you know Dawn Becker he has made sure that you know Chris Weilminster he has made sure that you know Jeff Berkes.
So one other things we talked about years ago is you got to see the depth here the depth here is really one of the best assets of this company and here is an opportunity for you to get a little bit more visibility to that with Melissa.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Yep.
At this time there are no further questions.
You may continue.
Thank you.
And this concludes our second quarter earnings conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the Third Quarter Federal Realty Investment Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lourisa and Ill be your operator for todays call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode later well conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kristina Lennox.
Ms.
Lennox you may begin.
Good afternoon.
Id like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realtys third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
After this sweet storm in few days I hope everyone is doing well in recovering post Hurricane Sandy and I would also like to thank you all for you understanding with the technical issues earlier today.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Jim Taylor Dawn Becker Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our third quarter 2012 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the Trusts operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realtys future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial conditions and results of operation.
Ill now turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our third quarter 2012 results.
Don? Thanks Kristina and good morning everybody.
And first of all let me apologize to you for what is effectively a three hour delay in getting our conference call off today we did had some problem with the conference call provider were not sure whether it was Hurricane Sandy related or for that matter Andy Blocher is advertising the call.
But we are glad that youre on the phone with us now at this point.
So let me get going.
In a few minutes we will hear from Jim Taylor in what is his first investor conference call as CFO of Federal.
There is absolutely no need to go easy on him during the Q&amp;A session today.
its a great start Jim.
But before you hear from him let me go through a very strong third quarter for Federal and what we think it means for the balance of this year and for next.
Reported FFO per share of $1.12 compared with a very strong $1.01 comparable to last year.
As I intimated in last quarters call there was noise in the third quarter which benefited from a big $6 million and $0.09 a share lease termination fee from Safeway.
Im going to give you more on that in a bit but also carry the CFO transition costs associated with Andy severance and Jim sign on bonus totaling $2.1 million or $0.03 per share on the other way.
So $0.06 of this quarters earnings to be considered unusual or one-time in nature; of course we will continue to make my case of lease termination fees on an ongoing and normal part of our business but this is a big one and should be considered when thinking about our run rate.
Okay leasing primary driver of this record quarter.
Like the first half of the year third quarter leasing volume was again off the chart in terms of our historical production.
A 100 deals more than 0.5 million square feet of comparable space completed in an average rate of $28.43 a 11% higher than the $25.63 replaced that now makes over 1.3 million square feet of deals in the first nine months of 2012 more than most years 12 month production and more space than weve ever leased in the nine month period ever.
All that volume equates to $4.7 million of incremental rate.
Rent is on a comparable space mind you not just newly developed retail space.
That was contracted just these first nine months compared with the previous leases.
Many of those deals are already benefitting 2012 results and all will certainly benefit 2013 in future years.
You might have noticed that in total the 51 renewals that we did during the quarter actually generated 1% less rent going forward than the previous deals.
No trend or macro-issue here just one of those 51 leases with a big roll down that skewed the results and that was with Barnes &amp; Noble and Willowbrook shopping center in suburban Philadelphia.
We decided to renew Barnes for five more years significantly less rent because of their strategic importance at that particular shopping center at this time.
Without that deal renewals rolled out 3%.
And you know those decisions of leasing decision happen once in a while.
While we may have a similar impact on one in the fourth quarter or in any quarter along the way you have to look in total I mean looking at the overall leasing position and products portfolio frankly I couldnt be more bullish.
With all that unprecedented level of activity occupancy can help it to go up and it sure did.
Were now 95.1% leased and 94.2% physically occupied both up substantially from last year and from the quarter ago.
Let me give you a bit more detail there were five big anchor deals done during the quarter but none is bigger than a new state-of-the-art Giant Food Grocery store at Flourtown Shopping Center suburban Philadelphia that with a possible by the sale of certain Safeways Genuardi stores to Giant division of Royal Ahold.
That same sale when compared to the all three of our Genuardis locations allowed us to not only upgrade Flourtown at a very significant rent premium but also to maintain a first class grocer at our premier Wynnewood Shopping Center and to give us the opportunity to significantly transform Ellisburg shopping center in Cherry Hill New Jersey with a great higher end specialty grocer and by the way collect of $6 million termination fee from Safeway.
We conservatively estimate $20 million of immediate property level value creation because of these transactions and $40 million over time given the deterioration Genuardis was experiencing.
Some just doesnt happen at lots of shopping centers and its part of the reason we think that lease termination fees should be viewed as a regular part of our business.
Our leases are generally very strong from the landlords perspective.
And in our locations they tend to give us a better chance to unlock potential that wasnt reachable the day before.
I also want to mention one other under the radar initiative of the company that is really yielding some strong results and contributing meaningfully to the bottom line.
Its an ancillary income program that has been expanded from simply the Halloween and other seasonal temporary tenants to such initiatives as an aggressive paid parking program and expanded number of our properties and very recently our solar energy program thats being rolled out at eight of our shopping center properties in the Northeast.
Together ancillary income now generates about a $11 million annually about $3 million in the third quarter which is up from about $5 million annually just five years ago.
The increase has been steady and resulted in a compound annual growth rate of 15%.
And we fully think there is far more room to go with this program.
Okay lets move on to acquisitions and development.
In the last couple of months weve been working on a couple of shopping center deals as I look like were going to make and assuming the balance of the due diligence period goes as expected we should close the both by the end of the year.
Well obviously share a lot more information on those centers after closing but from a big picture perspective the two centers combined if both deals close would allow us to put nearly a $150 million to work for over a 0.5 million square feet of space.
In addition with Jim Taylor heading up the function on the East Coast and Jeff Berkes on the West Coast were looking at a lot of products but still find real estate in our market that have a clear path of value creation to todays prices.
But were doing our share and I think well be doing more.
In terms of an update on the three major development sites that are under construction lets start on the West Coast at Santana Row.
I went back to look at my second quarter comments about Santana and they also apply.
Were moving ahead on schedule and on budget at Misora which is the latest residential building with a $75 million budget a 7% plus cash-on-cash expected return in a 2014 initial stabilized year.
Looking forward much more to come as we continue to plan for additional retail additional office and additional residential investments totaling somewhere between $225 million $250 million may be even a bit more on the Santana Row site.
Second across the country just outside of Boston Assembly Row is under construction.
AvalonBay is progressing on their residential buildings.
We began construction on the large building that will house among other things a parking garage and theater.
And the NBCA track work is underway preparation of the new T-Stop.
We expect the 2014 opening on this first phase with the opening of the new T-Stop trailing by 6 to 12 months.
Retail leasing at Assembly has a real momentum with negotiations with multiple tenants for each available states well underway.
The first phase includes about 300 000 square feet and about 30% of that is committed to-date under executed leases to tenants like Brooks Brothers like Chicos like Legal C Bar among others.
As good news as we didnt expect to have sign leases beyond the theater deal until year end lot more familiar names that I can talk about yet but the merchandizing is shaping up very nicely.
We continue to evaluate the IKEA site to determine whether it makes financial sense for Federal but dont have a point of view on that yet more to come.
And thirdly the first phase of Pike &amp; Rose as I said our Mid-Pike shopping center is well underway including site work and foundation work on each of the three buildings comprising phase 1 no changes to budget or timing on this one either $250 million for the first phase with the expectation of late 2014 opening for the first couple of mixed-use buildings and the larger residential buildings following after that.
As you can see lots going on for Federal over the next few years $0.5 billion of development spend for the initial phases of existing retail destinations and we have controlled for years and operating platform firing on all cylinders with leasing momentum that is particularly strong and both recent acquisitions and new ones coming with leasing our redevelopment opportunities to exploit and then open an aggressive eye for more were proud of our performance and what is still a very uneven recovery.
At this point let me turn it over to Jim Taylor to talk about the balance sheet earnings guidance and some initial impressions of the opportunity and risks that we face.
Well then open it up to your questions and our entire senior team is here and available to address them.
Jim?  Don thank you.
Thrilled to be on board and part of such a great team.
First I trust that all of you on the call and your families have come through Hurricane Sandy okay.
At Federal we have all survived an attack and aside from some minor sustained roof damage in a couple of our sites we came through it largely on scale.
All of our centers are up and operating and again any damages minor.
Before I address financial results and outlook I wanted to share my perspective with someone who knew the company as an outsider for almost 14 years has now spent the past 90 days as part of the team.
First Ive been thoroughly impressed by the quality and depth of the people in this company.
Granted it does take a great portfolio of rental assets to produce organic growth that is as predictable as it is impressive however our leasing operational and legal team led by Chris Weilminster and Dawn Becker know how to drive the very best performance from our assets.
And in theory our merchandizing mix or week leases can recap at even a very best location when you see these teams operate out close you realize that the Genuardis lease team fee at $6 million is no accident nor as a resulting value creation opportunities that are available to us at Ellisburg Flourtown.
They are the natural outcome of that singular focus on driving performance.
I have also been impressed by the quality of our information systems and our finance team led by Melissa Solis.
Of course having known the company for 14 years I expected to find strengthen this organization but the quality and depth of this team and his leadership has exceeded my highest expectations.
One surprise that has really struck me since joining the team has been truly the universal spirit of finding ways to drive shareholder value whether its leasing legal leasing tenant coordination redevelopment legal expense management et cetera the mission within the company is clear and embraced by all on the team.
Looking forward for me the key challenge will be sourcing and capitalizing on install acquisition opportunities that are accretive from a long-term growth perspective to our core portfolio.
Our pipeline is active as Don mentioned and we believe that there maybe opportunities for us to continue to identify assets like Plaza El Segundo and Montrose Crossing our two most recent acquisitions that fit our criteria.
These are assets in locations where we are confident that will always be strong relative tenant demand.
Rest assured we will maintain our disciplines as we evaluate potential acquisitions but were very focused on making sure we turn over a lot of stones.
Hopefully youve all seen our recent press release announcing the addition of Harold Nafash to our acquisitions team reporting to Barry Carty.
I am extremely excited about the contributions Harold will make to our team particularly in the Northeast region.
We are up for the challenge.
Turning to results allow me to provide some further insights on this quarters performance our capital markets activity our increased midpoint guidance for 2012 and our outlook for 2013.
Don covered our FFO for the quarter which again was up 12.7% on a growth basis and 10.9% of a $1.12 per share over the prior quarter.
Again success of this increase is attributable to the Genuardis lease term fee net of the CFO transition cost of $2.1 million.
No surprise here the other main driver of our quarterly performance was our growth in same-center operating income which excluding the lease termination fee was a strong 4% up including redevelopment and 3.5% excluding redevelopment.
Our same-center growth was driven by the strong leasing activity of our core portfolio both in rollover and occupancy and redevelopment.
This quarter we achieved 11% increase in cash balance as Don mentioned and over the last four quarters weve averaged 12% increase or our same-center lease percentage at quarter end increased to 95.1% from 94.2% a year earlier.
We should expect to see the benefit of these newly signed leases over the next few quarters.
On the redevelopment side we continue to benefit from 300 Santana Row and the apartments on Lot 6B in addition to the ongoing delivery of redevelopments at Bala and Willow Lawn.
These were partially offset by the downtime from the redevelopment at Shoppers World as well as demolition of marketing expenses for the first phases of Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose.
The acquisitions of Montrose Crossing and Plaza El Segundo has drove the balance of the increase in property PUI which when you factor and that assume drove approximately $1 million in FFO benefit.
Both of these acquisitions have outperformed our initial acquisition underwriting and we are vey pleased with our operating performance to-date.
Our G&amp;A expense increase of $1.6 million was driven by the $2.1 million of transition cost the CFO position I mentioned offset in part by lower transaction cost incurred during the quarter increases in interest expense due to the higher average balance during the quarter were largely offset by lower rate.
Turning to the balance sheet; during the quarter we raised an additional $52 million under the ATM program at an average price of $107.43 per share and refinanced $175 million of 6% notes with $250 million of note that a coupon of 3%; these transactions leave us in a very strong and flexible capital position with approximately $147 million of cash on the balance sheet at quarter end and $400 million of capacity under our revolver.
We remain in very solid shape to match fund appropriate acquisitions and plan redevelopment and development activities through the capital markets.
Well keep our balance sheet metrics at appropriate levels and thereby provide ourselves maximum flexibility.
With our strong year-to-date performance and visibility on the remainder of the year we increased the midpoint of our 2012 FFO per share guidance to a range of $4.29 to $4.31 per share.
Looking forward further we feel very good given the quality and stability of our core portfolio and strong leasing performance to provide visibility on 2013 FFO per share in a range of $4.50 to $4.56 which adjusting for the impact of the Genuardis lease term fee and the CFO transition represents a solid 7% FFO per share diluted growth at the midpoint.
Here are few things to consider as you are updating your models we anticipate that occupancy in the core portfolio will remain relatively flat in 2013.
Our same-center growth expectations are in the 3% range excluding the impact of the lease term fee.
Note that we still expect to generate this level of same-store growth even with the drag of redevelopment at Mid-Pike and Santana Row.
From a capital standpoint in addition of the cash we currently have on our balance sheet and capacity in our revolver we expect opportunistically cap into the equity and debt market with issuances under our ATM and refinance of our senior notes which mature in December of 2013 all this will be accomplished again with keeping an eye toward strong credit metrics and our balance sheet flexible enough to find appropriate acquisitions as well as $250 million to $300 million of plan development and redevelopment spend as detailed in our 8-K.
In sum we had a terrific quarter have a positive outlook for 2013 and a balance sheet with flexibility to fund our growth.
We look forward to seeing you all in San Diego in a little over a week.
And with that operator wed like to turn over the call to questions.
Thank you.
Well now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) We have a question from Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
Good morning guys and good afternoon I should say.
(Inaudible)  Yeah sorry its crazy day.
Just a few questions then I apologize Don because I ended up getting on a minute late so Im sorry if this is repetitive.
But just on the CFO transition cost I think on last quarters call you had mentioned that is going to be about $3 million or a nickel largely in Q3 and it came in under that.
Is that because there is going to be some that spills over into Q4? Or No I think and Ill ask Jim or Melissa.
I think its going to be any sort of job sooner from frankly and so we didnt have the cost that went into the fourth quarter and secondly into the early part of next year.
I think thats a big piece of it.
That is most of it Jeff.
And sum we were about a penny lower than we thought we would be in the estimated transition cost.
Okay.
And then concerning just your guidance for 2013 as we look at Pike &amp; Rose can you walk us through I guess maybe how much displacement you think is going to come as a result of that moving towards the development process either just to hit the occupancy or at revenues maybe even talk about how it flows through the quarters in 2013? Jimmy I know you went through that in the second.
But with respect to the Japanese a bigger point here thats irrelevant now and for 2013 but also for 2014.
No its a follow up.
Great as I move this stuff there is really three or four categories that you got to think about.
One is as youre intimating loss rent right.
There is a Mid-Pike shopping center thats being taken down or that was existing stream of income continues to delude effectively as you head out through the development.
Thats number one.
Number two the same time there is heavy marketing expenses that are necessary in order to introduce the world to the new product both at Mid-Pike or all at Mid-Pike at assembly and at Santana.
In addition to that there is demolition when we physically not down the building there is costs that come from that.
And obviously as we get out into 2014 it gets a little money or because as capitalized interest does it match up exactly with the new rents coming on.
Youve got further dilution there from an earning perspective.
Obviously all of these things are very value additive as we move it from one to the other.
So I dont know if you want this specific numbers how you want to get to it on this call Jim Melissa youve got the side.
But those thats the concept Id like you to think about for the next two and three years effectively.
Yeah Jeff when you look at the drag Don referred to you whether its loss rent or marketing or demolition just in 2013 youre looking at anywhere from $2 million to $2.5 million that we have forecasting 2013 of that drag.
So when we talk about our same-store growth its net of that drag if you will.
So again Im glad you asked the question because I want to emphasize were still forecasting 3% same-store growth with that drag in it.
Okay thats helpful.
And then just maybe Don I would like to switch gears on Assembly Row you mentioned the IKEA site is there a timeframe is such as a big deadline when youd have to go after that property? Or is it not that hard and fast at? Thats a good question.
In the negotiations were in right now were pretty comfortable that were going to have until the first part of 2013 to kind of to decide whether that we want to do there.
And as you can imagine Jeff where were talking to folks its got to be entitled.
There is a lot of issues there that we want clear visibility on before we were to do anything on the sites there.
Yeah but at the end of the day it doesnt make sense as a standalone investment I just had just as soon as somebody else do what they are going to do there.
And believe me the base of a brand new key [stop].
Somebody whatever it does or somebody else is going to be developing on that 12 acre site.
But yeah we will be into the first piece of 2013 before we have that visibility.
And then are you able to give us a rough sense of how the lease deals are getting structured there? I know its early but just in terms of the other rents achieving which you are hoping yes this pickup clauses and how are things sorting out? Yeah thats it and it is early and a couple of that are in place.
There were a couple of guys we want those tenants and its very typical in a development deal that will be subsidized deals and others rent is exceeding with what we were going to be able to get there.
So as you can imagine were in the throes now with the first real phases of lease negotiations.
And that will play out however that plays out over the next year or so.
But the initial stuff is were pretty much no surprises.
Yeah I hate the deals where we have to subsidize a bit more.
I love the deals where we are more successful in getting the rent that we thought or better so a balance.
And just one last question why didnt you guys look at Westwood the property down there in Maryland? Because I think in I am sorry I was actually thinking of something else when you said that.
I got a couple of things to talk about on that.
But basically that is a real its a real complicated deal thats going to be.
And basically unlocking value there and Jeff and his team its a great team.
And they very well maybe able to get to the value that they need to get to.
They are going in prices certainly going to require them to get to that values to make any sense.
And when we kind of look at what has to happen to get their best kind of price it was too steeper frankly.
Okay thanks guys.
Yep.
Craig Schmidt from Bank of America is on line with a question.
Well good afternoon.
I was just wondering that you know Pike &amp; Rose I mean we will be talking to for a while and now are starting to really be eponymous.
I wonder what has changed when you know you first started the mission what youre going to do for that property versus what youre doing today and what have you learnt given the no you have some potential other large redevelopment efforts that are coming up after Pike &amp; Rose.
Well Craig when you sit back and you think about the pieces of land that federal has inherently land banks in its portfolio there really isnt a better one out there than Pike &amp; Rose.
And so one of the things that we set up early on and I think its still the right thing to do is the spacing of that project.
And so you know taking off biting off this first piece of that while keeping the rest of it operating makes a lot of sense in terms of balance and risk mitigation.
I think as we get into the leasing of the residential piece particularly there which was hard to we wont know that for sometime.
What we are finding is that the demand were getting for additional residential maybe even condo as that market starts to comeback in hotels is higher than we thought it was going to be at this stage.
And so I don't have a good word on economics of those things yet because we're in that those initial stages.
But I think everything that weve learned have validated the quality of the real estate in the piece of land that that we have.
I dont like what were doing in the first phase.
The tricky part for us is going to be how to grow it all out.
Do we bring in a partner with us to get there over what period of time do we do that and what particular uses such as a hotel such as for sale versus for rent in some of the sites; that still have to be vetted.
So in terms of where we thought we would be we are.
As you say its upon us and in a way we go.
But when you look at that piece of land coupled with the assembly piece of land coupled with after the Plaza El Segund and the point coupled with Santana and there is a large land bank here; that that has to be vetted in a very reasonable way and a company that its primarily an operating company and well always be so.
So that balance is what youll be hearing more about and as well decide about over the coming quarters and years.
Okay thank you.
Mike Mueller from J.P.
Morgan is online with the question.
Yeah hi.
Maybe a question or two for Jim at first I think you know the answer of this but for your 2013 guidance there are no acquisitions in there correct? Don mentioned a couple of that may close by year-end? Yeah Mike thanks for clarifying that.
There are no acquisitions and of course those materialize as we hope well provide further guidance at that point.
Okay.
And I know you mentioned tapping or using the ATM to tap the equity markets can you put any parameters around that at this point? Were very careful about that.
We like to keep our activity when we feel its advantageous to tap into it under 10% and the average daily trading volume and even then were not going into the market how positively were looking at it opportunistically.
So when you look at our plans for the coming year we have plenty of capacity to access it when we want Okay and even Mike can I just add one thing to the acquisition comments that you asked about us.
Sure.
This acquisition that we're making is going to be really good stuff and really good stuff expenses so it is true the guidance does not include acquisitions but it is not like we're going toward the type of product that is going to be extremely accretive from an FFO perspective if you will in the early years normally.
I just want to make that point.
Okay fair point.
And then I guess on the flip side even though there may not be any disposition to guidance are you currently marketing any properties for sale? No we're not marking them yet but we are looking at certain asset to think about that and basically thats really about doing a lease thing and making sure that those properties aren't in best shape to be disposing.
So little may be more to say on that in future calls but not right now.
Got it.
And last question at assembly you rather offer couple of tenant needs at Brooks Brothers is on there maybe a restaurant or two.
Is the Brooks Brothers is that in outlet and is the focus that which you're trying to lease on the retail side still outlet oriented? Absolutely absolutely; thrilled with that frankly.
This is combination this is going to be new product its outlet with restaurants big theatre and people living above it.
So well this is we can tell from the supply-demand characteristics that that we're doing we never build in the right product but this is pioneering to some extend in terms of that merchandising.
So thats where we're working through heavily right now thats were Brooks is thats what Chicos is thats with the other conversations that we are having with tenants and negotiations are so you should absolutely expect to see basically an outlet mall with the addition of resident great restaurants some service and residents living above.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
Quentin Velleley from Citi is online with the question.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi.
Just in terms of acquisitions it seems like the sort of more confidence and enthusiasm that you can sort of do more deals and the appointment of Jim and a new acquisitions manager in the Northeast.
However my understanding is that the pipeline of high quality assets is actually pretty small and yield firm and if not getting firmer outside of those two potential deals that you spoken about that youre looking at the moment what can you sort of tell us about the acquisition pipeline for better quality assets?  I think Im going to jump in in front of you Jim or in front of your Jeff whoever going to say something about that in that.
And first of all to completely agree with you Quen I completely agree with you with your characterization of limited supply and of the stuff that we would want and a firmer environment not a loser environment in terms of being able to get that having said that this isnt its not a business that should turn on in the public company in our business plan thats a turn on and turn off at your leisure.
And so by the time things do turn this is about doing the hard work that undercover work the digging up work now its about making sure that we have the right team in place in a guy like Jim in a guy like Harold oh boy I hope you do you do diligence on him because I think itd be impressed with the guy that we got there.
So that during that regular process we do want to over you will unlock an opportunity or two or three here but its not because of as you suggest and overall macro losing the environment and increasing supply that we see coming that made those moves obvious.
Yeah and Quen I would just add this is not a quantity game.
This is a quality game as you point out.
And as Don alluded to there is a lot of prospecting work that we are doing to make sure that were in front of the opportunities as they arrive but its difficult to predict what that will be.
I just think were what were really focused on is making sure were in a position to capitalize them as they come available.
And maybe Jeff can you just add your thoughts on the West Coast?  Yeah I dont know there is any difference in what you guys have said in and how you started to Quen I mean it is very difficult to find kind of assets we like where we can get comfortable and an ability to grow NOI over time.
I do expect were having a number of conversions like Jim and Don both said we are always sort of scratching and clawing out here to find whatever we can find.
And were having some good conversations right now but nothing to talk specifically about at this point.
Right.
And just a question for Jim and I know you only been there short period of time.
But maybe if you could give us a few thoughts in terms of whether or not there is any you have any difference in opinion on property investment development and allocating capital versus what the Federal way of doing business as banks? I dont I dont I think whats really impressed me as I alluded in my remarks are really the mission of the company is very clear and it is embraced by all on the team.
Our retail cant be characterized by particular type of asset or class of assets but there is a common underlying theme and that is that we like own location where were confident tenants to be there thats the simple formula and so whether thats a three retail asset or a small grocery anchored community center or a super-regional power center or big box center again thats kind of the underlying theme and I think that the results kind of continually speak for themselves as you look at how the companies performed.
Our performance is not only outperformed we are consistent in that outperformance so hard for me coming in as the new guy to suggest that the company ought to be doing anything differently Quentin.
From a development and redevelopment perspective again it all ties into the same theme which is these are locations where we have good belief in terms of what the demand will be there.
I think we are seeing it materialized in Assembly clearly at Pike &amp; Rose and obviously at Santana in terms of the future developments that we have ongoing there.
So again my addition of the company is not been one to really change that focus at all if anything I just try to extenuate what we are doing here in the eastern half.
Okay thank you.
Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus is online with the question.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi.
Jim can you quantify exactly what the impact is from the redevelopment on your 13 same-store guidance? We have again we have lost income in marketing expenses that are dragging down our same-store performance of about $2 million to $2.5 million.
And that lost income principally lost income at Mid-Pike as that center begins to shutdown they accommodate the Pike &amp; Rose development.
Okay thanks.
And then as you look at the possible opportunity on the IKEA can you talk a little bit about your potential competition there is there anybody looking at that beyond the retail use and I guess do you see yourself given that you control rest of the property possibly being able to justify paying more given some synergy that we can see?  Am I negotiating with you now that was going on in this Yes I have a friend that are out there so.
Are you from IKEA? The Actually Jim Taylor he is still representing me Nice Nathan thank you.
Then look I dont personally have specific knowledge of who else is involved in the process per se because it is a quite process that if you will with IKEA.
What I expect that there is other demand for that site and other people with other uses absolutely I would are there some real impediments to doing that from the standpoint of entitlement that would make that hard to do sure but those are just developments assumptions that have to be made and underwritten.
So I was clearly belief there are other folks there.
In terms of us doesnt make the most sense for us yeah it probably does but we own a lot of land there.
Weve got a lot of opportunities to continue to grow there.
Without owning that 12 acres of land so we got through and as you can imagine in the negotiations in any company within the company well do we need to do that to protect the existing assets so should that be looked at separately how should it be viewed its something that we debate and argue very specifically around here.
And we have come down to as a result of that process a pure belief that piece of land should stand on its own from a development perspective in terms of what we would be willing to do.
If it goes to somebody else that would be okay and but if we think we can do it do we think we can compete as well or better than somebody else yes we do because well we know it that you see (inaudible) process in which we've been through before all those subject agreements.
Am I correct in assuming that there is no sort of (inaudible) that would give you any say in terms of what somebody else could do that? I believe that you are correct in assuming that.
Okay and then Don you've previously expressed caution to analyst and investors about the future growth profile of Federal getting back to where it was pre-crash given the recent strength in the shopping center industry have you changed your thoughts on that at all?  Yeah I like that may its well put very polite and said that but the bottom line is in the days of 4 5 6 7 the ability to raise rent significantly what was something across the Board that really boosted every portfolio out there.
Certainly thats harder to do I can tell you what I'm really excited about is the value that we will be creating in the development pipeline as well as some of the acquisitions that we're doing.
It's just it can happen in the 2013 2014 2015 timeframe because by the very nature of development there is going to be dilution in the form of those four things that happens before there's accretion and so if you sit and you model Federal out at 8% to 10% growth if you will through 2014 2015 and 2016 and its hard to do that.
Now we aim for both cash flow investors and NAV investors.
And we try as best we can to be a balance and to be able to make it work for everybody but it is about NAV at the end of the day and trying to create that value.
And when you choose development as a component of your business plan then youve got to look at a longer time pretty mature so were going to create the value but it wont be that FFO growth in 2014 and 2015 almost can.
And how about the growth of ahead of your existing portfolio the congressional Bala Cynwyd et cetera.
As good or better than ever and that stuff is just I mean its the rock.
There is were going to do $420 million or so of property level NOI this year and as Jimmy was saying despite the fact that there is dilution from the marketing and the development stuff were still growing at three so strip that and have a four and thats freight on good math thats pretty good.
Okay.
And then just to finish off the question I think you started answering before with Jeff the Pike property that Weingarten acquired.
Was that something that you had looked into? We did.
Its a half a mile of the street or less from our offices here as you know.
Right.
We are not shy about owning real estate on Rockville Pike.
I think weve proven that more and more including 250 million more than were putting and Montrose Crossing.
But thats a small property.
Its got some I think about a ground lease its only ground lease its got some pads out in front that that our pan big old numbers.
And so when we look that we will see how were going to make more money here based on the value of going in and I mean may be Weingarten can do it we didnt see a clear way to value creation.
Even at 74% leased.
Yeah.
That's because you certainly have to pay for that.
It's not like GBG with selling that saying hey its free because its not leased.
All right.
Believe me you have paid for that.
Okay all right.
Thanks so much guys have a great weekend.
Same to you Nathan.
Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors is online with the question.
Hi.
Hi Cedrik.
Just wanted to go back to the rent question a little bit and thinking about your portfolio and two segments anchors and small shops if you were to mark-to-market all your leases to-date in each of those segment so what will be increase in ramp on a percentage basis in each of these segments? Well I'd tell you on this call; I don't have the ability to do this in segments.
I can sit there and tell you that we got about 23 bucks in place and I believe we are sitting if you were to go through our system and you would understand all the market leases of all of the leases in total that you'd be looking at 8 bucks more or 9 bucks more something in those that kind of line from adjustment to market.
I don't know how to do that Cedrik for you; I dont have the ability to do.
Im looking across and people saying have not in terms of how much of that is segmented the way you like that to be segmented that Im sorry but there is certain point from my perspective at least is that there is still a very significant amount of market upside in the portfolio.
Okay.
Whats your ability to capture and the reason I'm asking about the anchors is that obviously its a lot more difficult to roll those leases so whats your ability to capture those 25% 30% upside in those rents overtime? Cedrik its been happening for an awful long time around here.
And one thing I will tell you about this portfolio one of the great things about this company is there is not much of a mystery to it and so when you look at that you can grab every 10-Q or 8-K basically for the last 10 years or 15 years and all that information is there it will show you the following thing almost always we recapture more than its contractually coming to because stop and I think the greatest example just happened this quarter as it relates to that the Genuardis sale and what that did at our shopping centers so that there is a brand new there is a recaptured boxes effectively that are out there long before those leases were up it happens all the time.
So Im not trying to dust the question I dont know the specific answer beyond the contractual aspirations that we disclosed but when you go back and look at what actually happened compared to the contractual aspirations its almost always more.
So we have the ability to get to it because weve proven weve had the ability to get to it.
Okay.
And in terms of just moving Santana Row with the residential market being in better shape at very leased in the Bay Area do you have the ability to convert some of your rental units in to condos and is it something thats rising on the radar? We have the ability to do it and now Im going to turn it over to Jeff Berkes because Im dying to hear what he says there.
Yeah as you probably know from discussions with us over the years everything here at Santana Row is set up as the condo and all the units are individually mapped.
So if we wanted to do a conversion it would be relatively simple and straight forward.
So we did back in 2005 and 2006 when we sold the units and buildings three four and six.
So we like having that flexibility here and going forward whenever we put a residential building we will build that flexibility into the legal ownership structure.
Right now I got to tell you we like having the income from the rental units.
And at least through the past couple of quarters and going forward we expect to be able to maintain or grow that income and that condo sales market has not yet caught out to that rental value.
We keep an eye on it.
We keep an eye on it every month or every quarter.
And to the extent we start to see things like we saw back in early 2005 which was incredibly strong condominium pricing.
Well take advantage of it but we dont see that happening yet although we do monitor it closely.
Okay.
Cedrik let me answer and just add one thing to what Jeff said as I completely agree with.
But every single building that we build there is not just on obviously standalone.
Its integrated into the entire district which is now at Santana Row.
And so theres different property tax.
Were aiming for different type of people when were building eight Misora building that were building right now for example.
Its were looking for we will have lower price points.
There will be some smaller units in there to get people into Santana and the Santana experience maybe some younger people at a lower price points because we already have product that they can move to into a higher price point.
Some of this stuff leads itself or lends itself to being condo to be sold if you will as condos down the road some of it does.
So it really is a master planning exercise which as Jeff said is in part impacted by the timing if you will of the markets but it's also impacted by the product.
It is that were building to always be able to create the ability to own or to rent at a lower level or rent at a higher level within the property.
Okay great.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We have a question come from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Yeah great Jim just in terms of cap interest in terms of your forecast for next year you're running year-to-date about $7.5 million.
I assume just as the redevelopment development spend starts to pick up that the 2013 number would be greater than the 2012 number.
And therefore have a little bit of an offset relative to $2 billion to $2.5 billion drag that you are talking about previously.
Yeah thats right if you look at what we expect to spend during the year and our current plans for financing that spend our cap interest will be going up in 2013 but somewhere between $7 million to $8 million.
So and then this year will end up I don't know whats the impact of the fourth quarter you've been running about $2.5 million a quarter so is that a decent number for 4Q? Yeah thats a decent assumption Michael for the fourth quarter.
And so effectively your guidance for next year sort of has a positive call it $0.03 impact rather than a negative $0.03 impact.
Thats related to cap interest and again we are incurring capital to fund that development so its really the spread if you will between the rate at which we are tapping it for GAAP purposes and where we're raising that capital to little bit less than that but that's about right.
Okay.
But when we talk about thats obviously going FFO but I was covering before Michael was more of the impact on our NOI line.
Right but Im just thinking that people were sort of take in the queue that the guidance is a little bit lighter certainly as below where the street is today that people were coming to the conclusion that there is just drag from redevelopment not thinking about that there is actually a positive impact from spending capital when youre spending it at your line of credit rate and capping it at your weighted average interest rate at lease from an FSL perspective.
Yeah but again its just a couple of cents Mike.
Right but it indicates the drag that were talking about.
Are you The drag is higher than that net benefit but yeah I understand your point.
Are you capping any expenses at all from any of these redevelopments? Any of your operating expenses? No.
Okay and then Don I apologize I missed.
You talked about two deals during your opening comments where they each of a $150 million size or that was an aggregate? No Michael that was in the aggregate.
And those two deals that youre talking about that would be a $150 million going in.
How much incremental capital if youre able to get those deals would those have associated with it? You was looking very little and actually at least for a couple of years.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
Kristina Lennox do you have any final remarks.
This concludes our third quarter earnings conference call.
Were looking forward to see everyone in San Diego.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes todays conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Federal Realty Investment Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and Ill be your operator for todays call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later well conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Kristina Lennox.
Ms.
Lennox you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I would like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realtys fourth quarter and year-end 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes In addition to our fourth quarter and year end 2012 supplemental disclosure package we also filed our 10-K yesterday.
Both documents provide you with a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the Trusts 2012 operating and financial performance and both are currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realtys future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provides a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial conditions and results of operation.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our fourth quarter and year end 2012 results.
Don? Thanks Kristina and good morning everyone.
I couldnt be more pleased with the way we closed our 2012.
Topline revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 10.5% fourth quarter FFO per share growth of 14% same-store operating income growth of 5.4% year-end occupancy of 94.9% versus 94.2% just three months before; 479 000 feet new and renewal leases at 12% higher rents and a great new big California shopping center acquisition with under market rents that closed right before year end.
This quarter really puts an acclamation point on one of the company's best years ever and I think that were set for another strong one in 2013.
Let me spend a few minutes recapping 2012 and then springboard into expectations for 2013.
2012 was the year of the leasing agent.
A year ago if you look at our lease expiration schedule in the 8-K for the year 2012 you will see a chart that suggest that 800 000 feet of space would need to be released in 2012 if every tenant exercise our option and 1.3 million square feet of space would need to be released if no tenants exercise their options.
A reasonable assumption would be that we would actually release somewhere in between those two amounts.
But unpredictable things happen in the portfolio of highly desirable space.
On a comparable space basis we got the turnover of 1.8 million square feet of space and we did it at 30% more rent than the former lease.
Increased occupancy accounts for about half of that difference with asset portfolio management would be other half.
Things like the relocation and upsizing of H&amp;M at Santana long before the lease was up is a good example.
So with the relocation of tenants out of Mid-Pike Plaza before their leases were up and the other Rose &amp; Pike shopping centers than we own like Cost Plus to Federal Plaza to make room for new development at Pike &amp; Rose.
All-in-all that 1.8 million square feet of leasing created an additional $6.4 million income stream some of which benefited 2012 more of which will benefit 2013.
And our one last leasing though we just completed a deal with a leading specialty grocer last week at Ellisburg Shopping Center in Cherry Hill that we expect to be transformational shopping center.
This was the center that was the source of last years $6 million lease termination fee from Safeway and as part of their stay on close down joints.
Between that termination fees of $6 million bucks the new grocers rent and it's effect on the overall rents and cap rate of the balance of the shopping center we believe we just added up with $20 million of value at Ellisburg.
As I said a great flow upon last 12 months of leasing.
Expenses remained heavily managed and under control too.
The EBITDA increased 13% to $102 million in the fourth quarter and increased 12% to nearly $400 million for the year.
On a same-store basis fourth quarter property operating income rose 5.4% and for the full-year it rose 6.1%.
Now that 6.1% includes that big Safeway lease termination fees but even without it same-store POI grew 4.5% in 2012.
These are numbers that we haven't seen since the 2005 to 2007 period of time and like that period of time they benefit from the increases in occupancy that we recorded in addition to the rent bumps.
With the record leasing unit I referenced occupancy couldnt help but go and it sure went up 250 basis points in 2012 to 94.9% and on a lease basis up 190 basis points to 95.3%.
Now we dont expect to see significant occupancy gains like that in 2013 while we do expect a strong leasing year in its own right and as I said before to get additional benefits from last years leasing.
Basically this portfolio is healthy or healthier than ever and now generates over $400 million of incredibly stable and growing cash flows that have been severely time tested.
When you combine that with an extremely conservative balance sheet and a very favorable cost to both debt and equity capital we feel really good about using a measured approach of that capacity for smart development smart redevelopment and income producing acquisitions.
And in that way lets move on to capital allocation and a discussion of acquisitions and development.
Let me start with our year-end acquisition of East Bay Bridge Center in Emeryville California.
We bought the 438 000 foot grocery anchor power center for a $117 million.
Its anchored by Target Home Depot Pak-N-Save by Safeway Sports Authority and others.
The property sits near the Bay Bridge adjacent to the intersection of three major highways all with very heavy traffic volume in a densely populated and supply constraint trade area where there is more demand than supply particularly for buy space.
Take a look at an aerial on Google Earth and you will see what I am talking about.
In addition to the real estate we liked to deal because all of the box leases were negotiated in the early 90s and are coming up on their 20 year anniversaries.
Virtually all the in place rents are anywhere from half to two-thirds of market; while we certainly wont be able to unlock all of these below market rents immediately some of the tenants have fair market rent options and we should be able to recapture a couple of the spaces in the next two years or so.
In addition while larger tenants has strong annual increases so when you combine that with the old rental NOI growth is quite strong and the risk of not achieving that NOI growth is very low.
And finally this is the 32 acre site on a great piece of land that should have whole lot more density on and it does; good things can help will that happen here overtime.
On the development and redevelopment side we are making great progress on all fronts and we are above and beyond on construction on the latest residential building in Santana on the first phase of Pike &amp; Rose and hand in hand with AvalonBay at Assembly; check out federalrealty.com for construction statistics in all three sites in San Jose California Rockville Maryland and Somerville Massachusetts.
Our latest residential building at Santana called Misora is further along with the first moving expected by year-end 2013.
We remain unscheduled and unbudgeted at about $75 million and residential demand has remained very strong throughout this construction process.
We will expect cash and cash yield to be above 10% when stabilized although with a little luck we even may break through to (inaudible).
At Assembly Row I just got back from a couple of days of back to back meetings with our key partners of the Somerville site including AvalonBay management representing the transit authority our general contractor and mayor and feel very very good about our time table and the product that we are going to deliver there.
Retail merchandizing has taken shape with fully proved and signed LOIs with Saks Off with American Eagle with Puma with a lot of other great local and national merchants in addition to the Brooks Brothers Chicos theater and restaurants deals that I started to report on last call.
At this point you know I have executed leases and signed LOIs for more than half of the phase one retail income stream and strong momentum for the balance as we move into the spring leasing season.
I am also encouraged that the key stuff mailed earlier than anticipated perhaps as early as July of 2014 that is very good news.
With this progress you will notice in our 8-K disclosure that we've added a building with about 90 000 feet of office over retail to our first phase rather than doing a third residential building with AvalonBay for an incremental $40 million at a return as accretive to the project.
We've done that number one to take advantage of growing office and retail demand since the project has gotten under construction.
Two for better scheduling and control of that scheduling and three to capture more of the upside that we believe we are creating in Phase 1.
Delivery of this building is affectionately called Building 2 will now coincide with the other three Phase 1 retail deliveries in the summer of 2014 which is many months earlier than the previous residential plan and thus will deliver a better Phase 1 experience.
Finally the Riverfront Park as the front door for Phase 1 will open this summer with whole schedule events to build upon growing local enthusiasm for the project.
We couldnt be more pleased with the progress.
My only other comment at assembly relates to the IT apartment where we continue to make progress toward a financially viable product on that site but we are not there yet.
Remember we tied up this land through an asset through May of 2013 and we have spent every last bit of time to ensure that we can create value.
Got a way to go in that respect and you shouldn't count on that land acquisition as a done deal more to come in future calls.
And finally in Rockville Maryland Mid-Pike property is rapidly becoming Pike &amp; Rose.
Construction is in the air until the first three phases built and two of the three first phase buildings without changes to budget or timing.
$250 million for the first phase with the expectation of 2014 openings for the two mixed used buildings and then the larger residential building following after that.
Retail leasing is progressing very well due to the expected dislocation and so far residential market rents continue to grow with big expectations for Pike &amp; Rose.
And finally maybe just quick just a quick comment on last years acquisitions Montrose Crossing and Plaza El Segundo both of which have outperformed our year-one underwriting and looked that it have been even better at this secure portfolio than we first thought.
In that vein its looking increasingly good and we are going to be able to add strong retail base to redevelopment through the hard corner of Rosecrans and Sepulveda at Plaza El Segundo which we call the Point.
While we have a few of the typical development hurdles to get over everything is headed in a positive direction and most importantly tenant demand is particularly strong.
That's it for my prepared comments this morning.
2012 was an amazing year from a fundamental real estate operating performance perspective and we look forward to doing it again in 2013.
Let me now turn it over to Jim to talk about our financial results and the outlook in more detail.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
And as Don mentioned in his remarks 2012 was a record setting performance for the Trust in terms of revenue average rents per foot on signed leases property operating income total funds from operations and FFO per share.
I'm going to walk through some of the key underlying drivers of this outperformance cover significant balance sheet items and liquidity and finally provide some details on our increased guidance for 2013.
For 2012 for the full year we recorded total rental revenue of $583 million a record for the Trust and an increase of $44 million or 8% over 2011.
As always our primary driver of rental growth came from the same center pool which continued to benefit from strong roll over growth and increases in occupancy.
We also realized the full year of benefit from redevelopment investments in our portfolio including Lavare our 108 unit apartment building in Santana which delivered and exceeded our projected yield by 200 basis points.
300 Santana Row our 80 000 square foot office building which met our pro forma yield and the addition of two pad sites to balance headwind which also met our pro forma development underwriting.
The benefit of these investments to our properties was offset from a timing perspective by the loss of rent from Mid-Pike as we took down part of that shopping center to commence the first phase of Pike &amp; Rose.
Finally we also realized increases in other rental income from our same center properties primarily in parking revenue.
In addition to the same center growth the second primary driver of the growth in rental income came from a full year of operations for our acquisition of Montrose Crossing and Plaza El Segundo.
As Don mentioned both outperformed our initial underwriting and demonstrated the great execution of our leasing and operating teams in integrating these assets and leasing them.
Other property income increased $11 million primarily reflecting a termination fees from Genuardi's at Ellisburg Esprit at 3<sup>rd </sup>Street and Priscilla's of Boston in Santana Row.
While the 2012 terms the activity represents significant increase over our long-term average it's the recurring part of our business and reflects the strength in the underlying leases that we have with our tenants.
Taken together these factors drove property income of $428 million another record for the Trust and an increase of $46 million or 12% over 2011.
On same center basis our property income increased 6.1% with redevelopment and 5.6% excluding redevelopment.
Again as Don mentioned in his remarks this growth not only reflects the strengths of our core portfolio but also our disciplined leasing operating and investment strategy.
Below the POI line net interest expense increased $15 million in 2012 to $113 million driven primarily by higher average outstanding balances reflecting the mortgages that we assume at Montrose Crossing and Plaza El Segundo partially offset by lower rate and slightly higher capitalized interest to $10 million for the year.
G&amp;A expense increased $2 million reflecting charges associated with the CFO transition offset by lower transaction costs incurred on acquisitions during the year.
Despite this increase in G&amp;A we remain disciplined with the expenses during the year increasing our EBITDA by 130 bps to 65.6%.
For the year we recorded total FFO of 277 million again a record for the Trust and aggregate increase to 10% over 2011.
On a per share basis we recorded $4.31 of FFO per share another record for the Trust and 7.8% increase over the $4 we generated in 2011.
For the fourth quarter we recorded $71 million of FFO or $1.11 per share an increase of 14% over the prior quarter.
You will note that that puts us at the high end of the guidance we provided in November as the transaction cost associated with East Bay Bridge that we previously disclosed were partially offset by occupancy gains in earlier rent commencements.
As for the whole year in this quarter overall performance was driven by the strength of our same center portfolio which produced 5.4% including redevelopments as well as having a full quarter of Montrose Crossing and Plaza El Segundo.
Rollover remained strong as Don mentioned and the average rents per foot on newly side leases of $32 another record for the Trust.
Slightly higher interest expense from the quarter was due to loans again our Montrose and Plaza El Segundo offset by lower acquisition costs.
Now turning to the balance sheet we continue to pay off mortgage debt during the quarter as it became prepayable.
Retiring $35 million in mortgage is associated with Bethesda and Mount Vernon.
In connection with our acquisition of East Bay Bridge we assume the $63 million mortgage that bears interest in (inaudible) and matures in March of 2016.
Starting at quarter we rate $17 million under our ATM at an average share price of $104.46 maintaining discipline as our share prices became less opportune.
Even with this lower issuance activity and the assumption of secured gap with East Bay Bridge our balance sheet remains very strong.
Our fixed charge coverage range in the mid 3s and our debt-to-EBITDA below 5 range and our overall debt-to-market cap in the 25% range.
From a liquidity standpoint we entered the quarter with $37 million in cash and nothing drawn on our $400 million revolver.
This was impacted as the balance sheet position provides us with maximum flexibility from the funding standpoint in 2013.
Looking forward to 2013 strong leasing activity that we executed this past year provides great visibility and continued strong same-store performance.
We expect same-store growth to be in the 3% to 4% area before redevelopment and closer to 3% with redevelopment due to the drag associated with the loss of rent at Mid-Pike as we shut down the later or the second part of that shopping center.
Much of the increased in that same-store growth will be driven by the rollover growth in occupancy gains we realized in 2012.
We expect rollover to remain strong and average occupancy during the year to remain relatively flat.
Additionally we have always spent the modest level of termination fee given the negative level of activity we had in 2012.
On the expense side we expect margin to remain relatively steady and a forecast of slight decline in G&amp;A expense as we look forward.
We expect East Bay Bridge contribute approximately $0.03 of FFO in 2013 but have assumed no further acquisitions.
Again we expect to capitalize on attractive acquisition opportunities during the year and will update guidance as any transactions are announced.
From a capital perspective we expect to refinance a 165 maturing debts during the year through offering and expect to fund the development spend of $250 million to $300 million through a mix of the line debt issuances and the ATM all with a focus on keeping our leverage metrics stable and taking advantage of favorable long term rates.
Taken together these assumptions provide the basis for our increased FFO guidance per share of $4.53 to $4.58 which represents an increase of 5.5% at the midpoint over 2012 or 7.3% excluding the impact of Safeway lease term fees.
We are very pleased of our portfolio leasing performance can provide visibility on that level for us in 2013 all the while keeping occupancy relatively stable and again reflecting the drag of taking Mid-Pike off line.
We are very excited about the coming year.
We are looking forward to seeing many of you in Wells Fargo Conferences in the coming weeks and with that operator we would like to turn the call over for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jeff Spector from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
My question kind of focuses on the East Bay Bridge acquisition.
I noted a lot of the leases you have mentioned are nearly 20 years old so an opportunity to push rents but is there also an opportunity to (inaudible) tenancy.
There is (inaudible).
This is actually one of the first acquisitions that we've seen in a bunch of years where literally every tenant is under market and then a number of them are doing extremely strong sales a number of them are not and that's rarely where the opportunity lies.
Jeff is on the call from California thats his deal.
So let me hand to Jeff back.
Yeah we've got a couple of tenants in the line up and its pretty obvious if you look at the line up and see who the tenants are who that might be that we either have an ability to really move their rent when their base terms comes up because their fair market value options or potentially recapture and improve the line up.
So we will definitely be looking at doing that.
The great thing about this asset and the reason we got so excited about buying it and I should probably mention too its something we've been working on as you might expect for a number of years.
We've been talking to tell us first one there owned by prologues and then again obviously after they are acquired by TTG about buying those asset and been on the radar screen for a while.
I'm very happy that we are able to make deals because its unique in that not only are the in place leases well below market but there's a significant shortage of box base in this trade area and when we are looking at Boyd analysis for the trade area there is a long list of tenants that arent represented and would want to be represented in this trade area.
So we are pretty confident that we are going to be able to take advantage of that and there are definitely a couple of retenanting opportunities in the box lined up.
It sounds like there will be some expansion.
What can you take FAR 2 at this site? You know thats a big number.
You know the city the bulk of the properties sits in the city of Emeryville.
Emeryville is a very progressive business oriented community.
They are very much in favor of increasing density on the site.
Obviously we have in place tenants with leases that dont necessarily allow that and thats something that we will have to work through and I won't say the sky is the limit but it's close.
We just need to work with the existing tenant base and then manage that as we're able to replace tenants and that kind of thing but clearly thats in our (inaudible).
what we did at Mid-Pike which is now becoming Pike &amp; Rose.
We've done that throughout our recent history and throughout our portfolio.
So well definitely have an eye towards that as we work the asset.
For anything good to happen at projects like that you need a city or county or whatever jurisdictions its in to be helpful and both Jeff and I I think we kind of look when this was done within a couple of weeks we had a letter from Emeryville welcoming us as the new owners and things that we should sit down and talk about the future the property which we just view as such a positive thing and I wish more city frankly would take that kind of approach.
So this one started out real well.
Yeah it seems like an exciting project.
I literally had to check the density numbers twice just to make sure I was coming out with the right numbers there.
I guess your comments in the right place there.
Our next question comes from Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Don just more general question.
I mean with your portfolio occupancy at 95% and I think thats pretty much in line often times that your sub market vacancy I think its certainly relatively lower than your peers.
Whats been the recent trend in asking rents for small shop space and how you think we should be thinking about market rent growth prospects in the next two or three years.
Thats a great question I will tell you Jeff we went back and looked at kind of small shops over the last 10 years to get an idea of where occupancy really goes and what kind of pricing leverage we have and often in periods of time in economic distress in our portfolio the small shops get down to 89% and 90% occupied.
Having dealt with the case here again in terms of the last couple of years that is changing.
So with that changing obviously comes some pricing pressure and it is hard for me to not feel an under current probably supported by the housing foundation in the country that is getting better.
To the extent that housing foundation continues to grow and it does it is more likely to happen if it continue to happen in the market I think in which we operate I can expect more to be able to have more leverage that way.
Now in any particular quarter or any three months or six months period thats not necessarily the case but I do think we have some more pricing leverage than weve had in the past and I would expect that continue into 2013.
And then just if I could a question on the (inaudible) office your opening remarks were helpful.
But its going to be a two part question.
Weve had decision that shifts influence at all may be in a change in appetite from Avalon now that they are get their hands full with Ardstone and I guess obviously this is a follow up if I could.
I was just curious like sort of flavor of office you are building if you will because you have the biotech buildings obviously just and these Cambridge and are you looking for a single user or is this multi tenant how you think about? Very fair question and let me address the first point.
No it is not.
Its got nothing to do with Avalon actually at all.
When we first did this deal we did the two building with Avalon 1 and 3 and then we were in active negotiations with Avalon 4 for building 2.
Building 2 has from a residential perspective there the question is the best way to (inaudible) and stuff adds cost as we look at that and had that conversation that conversation was being dragged out.
The negotiation was being dragged out it was taking time.
At the same time that was happening Jeff those office users we just got in a lot not in terms of the big campus type office users but the full floor 70 000 square foot users of and its broader based its not just biotech its broader based because Cambridge is filling filling up very quickly.
The Bay is filling up very quickly in terms of where its going we see demand that hasnt been there in the past few years.
So to be able to control the timing of opening the first phase of the project and not have a construction site affectively impacting that first phase and also to take advantage of that increasing demand on that 30 000 foot users; I mean three full floor users would be great one for the whole 90 would be great.
And we have inquiries in both of that both in those categories.
So it seemed very obvious particularly with when we put the numbers together the numbers certainly look acceptable and accretive to where we were.
So that's why the decision happened the way it did.
I mean anyway you look at over the full build out of Assembly over 10 years or 12 years or whatever its going to be an office component is certainly part of the plan in any of our mixed use project its really important to have that date on population base there and so the ability to do that in the first phase in a very measured and small incremental way may all sense well to us.
And just the last question I guess on Assembly maybe two parts one Ive seen some talk that you guys were looking at signing a way to get the zoning changed there that you could accommodate a big box grocer does that imply to Wal-Mart or a Target or even the Wegmans has been sort of looking around this market and Are you talking about the IKEA site? Yes.
No it doesn't imply that at all.
Its simply a matter of flexibility and us trying to look at all options to be able to you know look I don't want to land bank 12 acres next to it so what we have for the next 10 years I want to get same good idea of what the opportunities are for value creation and so we want them to do that we want maximum flexibility that's what's this is all about.
And is there any update on the Kraft familys interest in the adjoining soccer stadium they seemed to have some talk about that in the press? Yeah we've seen a lot of talk about it in the press as far as you know as far as we know there is continued demand and maybe even stronger demand than we thought but who knows in terms of the execution or something of that size.
Our next question comes from Andrew Schaeffer from Sandler ONeill.
Two questions first given that you partnered with AvalonBay on the apartment front in Assembly Row and what was your thought process on bringing on an office partner and why not Boston Properties if so? Yeah that's a very good question Andrew and you know we control nearly 50 acres there and so the idea of future phases with a larger office component will undoubtedly well have an office partner how the structure of that deal will work whether with Boston Properties or somebody else I don't know but this is much more scale you know its a $40 million incremental investment and only 90 000 square feet of space.
So we should control that first phase including the timing we are happy to do that.
We are doing the same thing at Mid-Pike and Pike &amp; Rose with our first phase where we have 80 000 square foot treatable office and again lots of demand there.
So we are hardly becoming an office company but and we will not become an office company but certainly thats a small component of the mixed use project if so its on the table for us.
And just to add to it it is work worked in Bethesda where OPNET has been a great tenant of ours on Woodmont Avenue for a dozen years.
And secondly kind of going back to your small sub-tenant basis I wonder if you can break out those lease spreads last quarter? But you know what we certainly do that offline if Yeah.
Well we can certainly do that offline so have you.
Our next question comes from RJ Milligan from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Just a quick follow-up on Jeffs question on Assembly Row you guys mentioned the office demand was increasing I was wondering on the other side of that did you see a softening in the multifamily demand? No.
Not at all now again that's a much better question for Avalon since that will have the economics but I can tell you that I was up with Avalon management just last week had great conversations.
They are very interested in doing work on the residential side at the Assembly; those conversations were about and very bullish from what they said on the first phase so you can get more detail from Tim and his group.
Okay.
And then my second question is in your beginning comments you talked about 2012 being the year of the leasing agent.
I was wondering a year from now when we were on this call for 2013 what's going to be the year up; where do you see the greatest potential for upside to your numbers if you can execute; is it acquisitions leasing again development redevelopment where do you see upside to your numbers? Thats a great question RJ and I got to tell you there is like 15 smiles in this room and in the call right now because they had a leasing over here when I said it's the year of leasing.
All you have to do is say nice things about the sales team and really motivate them like crazy.
We still see strong leasing; in all period we do see strong leasing; I think we're being pretty aggressive in terms of our assumptions.
I know we're being very aggressive in trying to get the rents that we're pushing both small shops and anchor; you know the development leasing which is a big piece of the share will certainly not contribute earnings to the share but as we continue to lease projects that are under construction and so people can see and then feel and everything else that's where we feel we feel really good about the potential upside of the future.
Our next question comes from Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Just going back to East Bay Bridge I noticed significant rental upside in there and I believe you would sort of paid a low 5s initial cap rate for it how should we be thinking about the IRR for that project particularly just in terms of rental increases and rate tenanting as opposed to some kind densification?  Very good go ahead Jeff.
Assumingly we do what we think we can do which is again Don said there is not a lot of risk to not achieving (inaudible) on an IRR 10-year unlevered.
Right and then and the best buybacks there I dont think you are in that who earns that I am not sure of this some kind of opportunity there down the road?  You are right we do not own that thats owned by a private individual out of Southern California and it wasn't part of what we bought.
Okay.
We talked a lot about the densification of the site; we certainly didn't in anyway underwrite our future development or anything else that way on the site.
All I am saying is one of the reasons we buy or we are really attracted to large pieces of land in places like this is because there are things that wind up happening all the time in over a five-year of period time or 10-year of period of time that we never thought would happen because its more flexibility on land of this size and these kind of locations.
So I cant who knows about the best buy owner who knows about the densification but when you are downside its protected as this one is and you can look at that a pretty sure increase in NOI over the next five years and why wouldnt you take an opportunity like that.
And then I guess if you look at the West Coast with this acquisition and Plaza El Segundo expansion at Santana and Westgate Mall.
So your West Coast book prints increased quite significantly.
How are you thinking about the urban and street retail assets you have over on the West Coast is there an opportunity to expand are you seeing acquisition potential or alternatively given sort of some pricing is there an opportunity to sell some of our small assets? You will take that Don or you want me to? No go ahead you are the President of the West Coast.
The first part of your question are there other acquisition opportunities of course we are always looking for those so as you mentioned the areas where we are investing is right now are pretty expensive so we are careful in evaluating those opportunities and clearly we understand the market really well on the 3<sup>rd</sup> Street Promenade and we understand the market really well on Colorado Boulevard in Pasadena and so on and so forth but if something comes up certainly because of our base there and our operating capability and leasing capability we take advantage of those but I would expect those to be relatively incremental.
In terms of disposing of them that's not something we are really planning on either and the reason is particularly on 3<sup>rd</sup> Street and couple of our buildings on Colorado Boulevard we have the same characteristics there the way I look at East Bay Bridge which is well below market rent so we expect to at some point in time harvest and like Don said you cannot predict whats going to happen and maybe we get some of that space back sooner than anticipated even if we don't its worth waiting and out because there is good upside in those properties and I hate to part with them at this point.
Yeah I want to put that question in the context of Federal Realty in its entirety though and you know we are managing a 20 million square foot portfolio and in that portfolio I felt that we were under represented in California despite the issues in California and I know them well but in spite of this I felt that we were under represented and that why Jeff took on the role that he now has out there that's why he built the team out there that's why you know the Plaza El Segundo acquisition the point development that will follow now East Bay Bridge is it does create enough critical mass out there where we are we've become more of a player.
On balance it is no more important to market or a less important to market than Washington DC or Boston or Philadelphia or for that matter South Florida which I wish we were stronger in.
So on balance what happened out on the West Coast has happened very very deliberately and if you look at the type of things that we do own we are still all about an increasing stream of cash flows and those type of assets on those pieces of land do that and give us the opportunity for more redevelopment in future years.
So I can't level with that (inaudible) on the West Coast Our next question comes from Christy McElroy from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to follow-up on some of the small shop leasing questions.
I'd actually also love that breakout on spreads between small shop and anchor if you could possibly send that around when you have it.
Don you mentioned and answered to Jeffs question more pricing leverage versus in the past on small shop is that more specific to you given your occupancy and the strength of your leasing or would you say that that sort of true of the market overall as well.
I'm just trying to get a sense for market rent trends because obviously there are still a lot of small shops you can see out there? You know Christy its a good question I'm not sure I'm the best guy to answer it frankly because I don't know because everybody else (inaudible) I only know about our or I can tell you that even within ours within our small shop leasing it's not across the board even it is clearly the better properties and the better locations that we have more opportunity to leverage in.
So its even federal portfolio is a microcosm of the bigger issues I have to say its probably not broad based but I don't know that that's really an individual company-by-company you know question you know.
And could you comment sort of give your view on anchor demand looking out over the next you know three to five years this isn't new but given the sort of overhang that's out there among retailers that have too much space office suppliers book stores consumer electronics the likely give back space as leases expire can you sort of give your bigger picture thoughts on how many closures we could potentially see in this country and what the demand looks like for absorbing some of that excess space? I will Christy but I'm looking at across the table and Chris Weilminster loved to answer that question first.
I have looked at the total amount of GLA that will come back on the market.
I cannot find in that direction but I do think that what you've seen over the past three or four years of amount of supply diminishing because of the demand of new concepts or regional trend given the markets that they were in before we don't I certainly don't worry about it clearly as of Federal Realty's portfolio I think we've always taken the anchor boxes by turn over and create a great opportunity and great value for the Trust.
So my overall opinion is that there's enough demand that will pick up the excess supply if the book stores and if the electronic retailers disappear.
Maybe more on a more macro basis on that.
You know I love to hear Chris say that.
He is in charge of this portfolio but you know as I think about that from macro perspective I do worry about that.
I mean I absolutely believe that there is too much space versus demand on a national basis.
You know and then you got to get down to company-by-company and locations-by-locations and it's obviously the supply all the way around but it's got to be in a place where there are at least two people fighting for one space.
It's not rocket science.
You have to have that and I dont believe that that is the case broad based across country nor do I believe it will be the case broad based across the country.
I think you see it in the secondary mall area.
I think you see it in secondary shopping centers and no I would not effectively want to run a portfolio of those kind of space from NOI increasing from an NOI perspective because I don't think that there are two or three or four tenants fighting for each anchor space on a macro basis.
Just one really quick follow-up.
Did you guys disclose your physical or commenced occupancy at year end? Yes we did.
We were at 94.9 in our cat.
Our next question comes from Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just want to go back to Emeryville a little bit.
Since you are talking about the potential to add so much square footage there are you looking at mix use of the portion use at the site? Cedrik I will jump on that one.
We're not looking at developing and adding anything to East Bay Bridge thats not why we bought it.
We bought it for the steady stream of the income stream there.
All we are saying is that when you have big pieces of land like this over the years things turn up and things can happen.
We will certainly explore those types of things but you should not expect any significant capital outlays in terms of development at East Bay Bridge in terms of densification for that in at least the next few years.
Okay and just looking at your key market at Washington DC broadly speaking what do you see from the demand perspective on the part of retailers in the metro area and if you could segment it a little bit between the grocery-anchored space and the power center space that would help to?  Yeah Cedrik I got to tell you.
I am very (inaudible) about it.
I have been nervously optimistic for or cautious for the past couple of years given all of the function in the federal government and uncertainty and it certainly has impacted the office market in Washington DC.
I can tell you on the retail side at least in the markets that we are doing business it remains one of our strongest markets and I think that applies Chris on the grocery side.
I mean still when you look at (inaudible) when you look at it would be nothing but outside potential for that any (inaudible) any of our grocery stores back I mean is so much demand for our assets in their locations that we everyday Don saying about the market there is jobs being added to the market I think the outlook is that there is another 40 000 jobs to be added in the DC market next year with everything going on and I wish we had more space Jim and I had a long conversation last night and he said how do we call to give me more space cause we just there is not much demand for whats going on for our assets.
I think Don always brings in more macro picture right I think the secondary markets where there is not a lot of residential growth are the ones that are more challenged but the physical locations of our real estate drives very demand and so.
And (inaudible) that sales trend looks strong too for those they report.
So we are not seeing anything but (inaudible) If you really think about rent growth over the next couple of years do you think DC is going to outperform the west coast in your portfolio? That's a good question and I don't know the answer to that.
I can tell you that when we look at in place rents versus markets rents in those two markets (inaudible) we own and the west coast that those general trends are about equal.
As down the west coast we got we will have a big role down in the best buy building at Santana that will come up.
is that late 14 or early 14.
Is that late 14 or early 14.
In 2014 there will be a big adjustment on that one building and that does that will probably cost us a $1 million or so a year.
But that will be more made up for in other areas other than one-off like that the difference between in-place and market looks very similar in Washington DC versus the west coast.
Our next question comes from Michael Mueller from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Jim I was just wondering in terms of the guidance whats baked in there in terms of funding for the development pipeline over the next couple of years? Yeah we have got of that $250 million to $300 million spend over the coming year and we are looking at a mix ATM and debt issuance.
I think we have given in our earnings guidance disclosure where we see our average shares outstanding which presupposes about $150 to $200 million of equity.
We are going to be optimistic Mike thats part of why we began the year with the liquidity position that we have.
We don't want to be backed into any one particular strategy and want to make sure we have all our options open to us so we can maximize our funding costs or optionalize I should say.
Our next question comes from Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Don you mentioned before that you would like to have some more exposure to South Florida and you acquired a few assets there few years back but really nothing since.
What would you say has been the hold up and where do you see things going where do you stand in that process.
Its a good question the first couple of assets that we bought have under performed.
We bought them at the worst time and they didn't work out.
The third asset that we bought which was just a year a little bit more than a year ago was Tower Shops and Tower Shops really has outperformed what we thought.
Its more in line with the kind of assets that we like; again bigger with more opportunities and more possibilities to be able to move around when in the middle of the redevelopment there we just risk in and are looking at some other ideas there.
That type of product we have not found has not traded in a way where we thought we could make money.
I will tell you we look forward at one in Miami a couple in Miami a (inaudible) was at the base in South beach.
Well Id love to have had that but the pricing just went through the roof and we didn't think we could make an IR that made any sense there.
So we keep pounding it and we keep looking at it and you know with federal acquisitions are never we are never going to do them in kind of a big way.
Its going to be a rifle shot approach of one by one or two by two something like that when they come available and that could stuff at prices that we can make sense have not.
When looking hard now and there are some things down there that do make some sense for us if we can break them free.
Would you say you have adequate boots on the ground down there? That's a good question and I'm not sure I have the answer to that.
I got [Barry Hardy] whos been with us a long time right on the ground right there working up now through Jim and whether there's another way to handle that or a way to supplement there we are looking at it.
Jeff Berkes is moving down there.
No he is a west coast guy he doesn't wear socks.
That goes great in South beach.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
You have a comment in your K that talks about leasing velocity being more in line with your historical average.
You know you said you did whatever 400 or so leases in 12 and looking for something closer to the 300 that you've done historically in 13.
I mean you alluded to this kind in your opening comments but should I think of that as being a bar that you could exceed or is there something special about 12 and I assume its on a comment on the state of the what you are seeing in all leasing markets generally.
Listen let me put it in context for a second.
I mean we did it in total nearly 2 million square feet of space which is roughly 10% of the portfolio that is not a bar that you should expect us to achieve on a regular basis.
I mean we typically do 1.2 million or 1.3 million square feet of space per year and again a big piece of that was because of the occupancy increases that we [avail] to in 2012 which you won't see in 2013 and so gets yourself down more to our historical averages maybe a little bit 1.3 or 1.4 million square feet I feel a lot better thats the [model] length.
Yeah and Paul from an occupancy standpoint as I mentioned in my remarks we're looking at some roll during the middle of the year but basically ending a near flat from a physical occupancy standpoint just below 95%.
And then on the lease spreads I mean you have been kind of steady in this 10% to 12% cash range you know pre-recession the numbers had been higher.
You sort of backdoor you were on same store NOI and occupancy broadly speaking.
I know historically sometimes those numbers were you got you quite [reduce] from old anchor leases expiring and maybe just haven't had some of those lately.
But should we expect to see lease spreads get back up closer to where theyve been.
What's the kind of obstacle there? I don't know.
It's going to depend quarter-by-quarter and in terms of what kind of deals get done.
There are still plenty of anchor boxes in this portfolio that are going to be roll up significantly.
Thats for sure.
But that 06-07 period of time I am not so sure you really ever get back to that consistent basis because with such an unusual point of time in terms of the retailers who are really just trying to grow a logically frankly.
We dont see that today in terms of any of the negotiations with retailers.
Retailers are they are better in terms of their ability to run their businesses and ability to control their inventory and ability to underwrite sales more reasonably.
So its discipline group thats make everyone of our negotiations a lot harder including everyone that - even though there is a lot of volume in 2012 I would love I wish I could take the hour spend on those leases versus 2006 and 2007 I can tell you they are lot harder.
And that generally means that the economics we are not going to be able to push rent like we are able to do it in 06-07 thats a macro comment it doesnt apply to any particular space or and what in a quarter any couple of deals that can make or break a quarter in terms of those statistics not in terms of the stability of a cash flow.
So thats kind of where I come out.
Okay just last question on the leverage youve got a lot of room a lot of comfort with respect to kind of where your peers are and where you are and I know you like to run low.
Youve got a big development pipeline you mention using that as well as the ATM to fund it.
How should I think about where you see leverage going as you build out the big developments.
Our objective is to keep our leverage metric stable.
We think our balance sheet and the strength of the balance sheet has helped us drive some of our out performance over time.
Certainly we are looking at the long-term debt market and favorable rates and we are going to capitalize on that when we can.
But I think you should expect our leverage metrics to remain relatively stable.
Yeah Paul the only thing I wanted to add to that is sometimes its easy to say the development pipeline in some kind of as though as one giant single thin.
Remember 75 million of that in terms of the building at Santana will be delivered earlier than the rest that will come out.
There will be in 14 the start of assembly and later 14 the start of Mid Pike and that was continue through 14 and 15.
So its not just as one big parallel money its moves and gets reduced in addition to new projects coming on along the way.
So the stability of the whole company even with that development pipeline which really is a very modest part of the company's capitalization is $9 billion company and we are talking about $500 million or so.
6% of it because the total capitalization of the company it just shouldn't drive what you are thinking about the leverage.
We have no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Lennox do you have any final remarks.
Thank you everyone and well talk to you soon.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Quarter 1 2013 Federal Realty Investment Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Yolanda and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Kristina Lennox.
Ms.
Lennox you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our first quarter 2013 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the trust's operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected and anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes that expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don to begin our discussion of our first quarter 2013 results.
Don? Thanks Kristina.
Good morning everybody.
The strength and momentum that we felt throughout 2012 continued into 2013 first quarter.
Quarterly results really speak for themselves.
Top line revenue growth of nearly 8% first quarter FFO per share growth 9.6% same-store operating income growth of 4.4% our quarter-end portfolio leased at 95.1% 254 000 feet of comparable new and regular  leases of 12% higher rent new raw materials for our midterm redevelopment pipeline in form of a great new shopping center acquisition in Darien Connecticut and a ratings upgrade from Standard &amp; Poor's to A- Stable that puts us in some pretty rarefied company.
It was a pretty darn good quarter so let me start out by talking about leasing and a couple of deals that really shaped the quarter.
We completed 75 comparable deals in the quarter for 254 000 feet about an average level volume for a 3-month period at Federal at a rent of $35.78 12% higher than the $31.89 in place rent under the last year's -- the former lease.
Renewals rose 4% and new deals created 24% more rent.
Bethesda Row just outside of Washington DC was particularly strong this quarter with 5 deals done 3 renewals and 2 new tenants with new contractual rents 24% higher than the former lease.
Similarly lots of leasing activities during the quarter at Barracks Road in Charlottesville Virginia where we signed 6 new deals 3 renewals 3 new tenants and significantly higher rents as we update and redevelop significant portions of that very important shopping center.
Of the 75 leases that were negotiated at this center -- in this quarter rather 63 of them that's 84% were for the same or more rent while only 12 of them rolled down.
And most of those cases the roll-downs were for property-related strategic positioning.
In short the leasing environment remains strong in all of our key markets.
Expenses remain tightly managed and under control too as EBITDA increased 7% to $104 million in the first quarter despite snow removal expenses that were roughly $2 million higher than last year.
On a same-store basis first quarter property operating income rose 4.4% which is very strong especially considering that lease termination fees were nearly $1.5 million less this year than they were in last year's quarter.
As I said at year end and want to reiterate here these are numbers that we really haven't seen since the 2005 2007 period of time.
And like that period of time benefit from the increases in occupancy year-over-year as we grew the quarters in addition to pretty strong rent bumps.
Physical occupancy is up strong on a year-over-year basis at 94.5% as is the percentage of the portfolio that's leased at 95.1%.
While both numbers are down slightly from year-end largely due to a couple of anchors that are out to make room for new and repositioned shopping centers.
That includes the Magruder's Food Store closed at Quince Orchard in Maryland to make room for continued redevelopment and re-merchandising of that center.
Speaking of vacant anchors you might remember that Genuardi's at Ellisburg closed late last year to make room for a new Whole Foods deal.
The new Whole Foods lease is capital-intensive and that's why you'll notice in our 8-K that TI per foot are unusually high this quarter.
But you might also remember that the Genuardi's lease termination fee that we received for this space more than covered those TIs along with all the downtime.
Basically this portfolio is as healthy or healthier than ever and is expected to generate over $440 million of stable and growing cash flows this year that have been severely time-tested.
When you combine that with an extremely conservative balance sheet the debt on which was just upgraded by Standard &amp; Poor's to an A- Stable rating we feel really good about using a measured portion of that capacity for smart development redevelopment and income-producing acquisitions.
And in that vein let's move on to capital allocation and construction of acquisitions and development.
Let me start with our first quarter acquisition at some very good retail real state adjacent to the Noroton train station in Darien.
The center had been on our hit list for the better part of the last decade as the demographics and possibilities for redevelopment are right down the middle of the plate for our business plan.
We paid $47.3 million for the center at about a 5 cap.
Value creation on this property will be dependent on working at a new deal and plan for this shopping center with both Stop &amp; Shop and with the town of Darien in the next several years.
We're very hopeful that given our strong relationship with Ahold our largest tenant that we'll be able to agree on a creative and exciting redevelopment plan that will work well for the community for Stop &amp; Shop and Federal Realty.
If we're unable to do that we'll be content to sit and clip coupons for the next 10 years on this great piece of real estate until Stop &amp; Shop's lease were in better term and options.
As I said that we fully expect to be able to make this a win-win for all sooner than that.
On the development and redevelopment side steady progress on all fronts since our last quarterly call were nearly topped off and enclosed by construction on the latest residential building at Santana were fully out of the ground on the first phase of Pike &amp; Rose and were hand-in-hand with AvalonBay on construction and assembly.
Make sure you check out -- we have set up the website at federalrealty.com for construction status pictures at all 3 of those sites in San Jose California Rockville Maryland and Somerville Massachusetts for current views.
The latest residential building at Santana which we call Misora is furthest along with the first move-ins expected by this year end and pre-leasing will start in a couple of months from now.
This residential building is going to turn out spectacular with amenities that are second to none even for Santana -- at Santana standards.
We remain on-schedule and on-budget at about $75 million and residential demand has remained very strong at Silicon Valley throughout this construction process.
We would expect cash-on-cash yields to be above 7% maybe even touch 8% once stabilized.
At Assembly Row we continue to feel very good about our momentum and the product that we're going to deliver there.
Retail merchandising is really taking shape with more than half of the space committed under fully-approved and signed LOIs and we're really looking forward to ICSC in Las Vegas later this month to get a number of deals locked up signed  and free us up to make some tenant announcement shortly thereafter.
We're very excited about the users that we expect to house.
My only other comment on Assembly relates to the IKEA parcel where we continue to make progress toward a financially viable project on the site.
Few development site hurdles to go there though so you shouldn't count that backland acquisition as a done deal really.
More to come there as we refine various programs to see if we can make one work on a standalone basis.
And finally in Rockville Maryland Mid-Pike Plaza is rapidly becoming Pike &amp; Rose.
Construction is in the air on 2 of the 3 first-phase buildings and the third is just underway without changes to budget or timing.
$250 million for the first phase with the expectation of a late 2014 opening of the 2 mixed-use buildings and a larger residential building following after that.
Retail leasing is progressing very well as you'd expect at this location.
And so far residential market rents continue to remain strong.
We have big expectations for this project and remain committed to earning un-levered strongly-valued accretive yields from this largely residential-based environment.
A lot of value is going to come from this development pipeline over the next decade both from the initial phases and then more so from the projects' natural maturation process and significant additional phases over time maybe even sooner.
And we may be able to announce some additional things to do as soon as later this year.
That's it for my prepared remarks this morning.
The first quarter of 2013 off to a very good start from both a fundamental real estate operating performance perspective and a balance sheet perspective.
Let me now turn it over to Jim to talk about our financial results and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
As Don outlined in his remarks our strong performance in 2012 continued during the first quarter of this year.
I'm going to walk through some of the key underlying drivers of this out performance review some balance sheet items and liquidity and finally provide some details on our increased guidance for 2013.
Overall property operating income for the first quarter increased 6.2% to $110.6 million compared to the prior year.
Consistent with prior periods most of the increase is attributable to increases in same-center POI which as Don mentioned increased 4.4% including redevelopment and 3.2% excluding redevelopment.
These increases in same-center POI were achieved despite lower termination fees year-over-year and net cam [ph] leakage from higher snow removal cost in '13 versus '12.
The balance of the increase in overall POI was driven primarily by the acquisition of East Bay Bridge which was acquired and successfully integrated into our portfolio last quarter.
Our POI margin remained stable on a sequential basis at 70%.
It was down slightly from the prior year quarter due to lower term fees and higher snow removal cost I just mentioned.
Bad debt remained at historically low levels at only 10 basis points as our tenants have shown increased financial strength and we have recovered previously written-off amount.
Our EBITDA margin improved on a sequential basis as we maintain strict control over G&amp;A cost keeping them essentially flat despite the continued growth in our operating portfolio and revenues.
As I've mentioned on prior calls I remain deeply impressed by this team's commitment and focus on costs.
Interest expense on an overall basis decreased $1.4 million in the first quarter versus 2012.
Most of this decrease was attributable to the lower rate our weighted average rate declined from 5.9% to 5.5%.
And an additional $400 000 in capitalized interest from additional spend at our redevelopment projects offset by higher interest expense due to higher average debt balance.
These factors taken together drove a record quarter in terms of FFO with overall FFO of $74.1 million an increase of $7.4 million or 11% over the prior year quarter and FFO per share of $1.14 an increase of 9.6% over the prior year quarter of $1.04.
Turning to the balance sheet we continue to pay off mortgage debt during the quarter as it became prepayable retiring a $9 million mortgage associated with White Marsh Plaza.
We also raised $32.2 million of equity under our ATM at a weighted average price of $108.11 per share significantly exceeding the volume-weighted average price during the open window we had in the quarter.
We maintain discipline from a pricing perspective and ended the quarter with nothing drawn on our line of credit which provides continued maximum flexibility from a capital raising standpoint.
On April 3 we closed on our acquisition of the Darien Shopping Center for $47.3 million in cash which was funded with cash on hand and our line of credit.
We expect this acquisition to deliver approximately $0.01 of FFO accretion in 2013.
On April 19 we closed on the upside of our line of credit from $400 million to $600 million extending the maturity to 2017 and reducing the all-in pricing reflecting in also our upgrades by 30 bps.
Because of the extended term and reduced facility fee the relatively modest cost of the extension upside will be neutral to FFO going forward.
We are very pleased with the execution by our banks on the extension upside of the facility which provides us with even greater capital flexibility as we fund our growth going forward.
Finally as Don mentioned on April 19 S&amp;P upgraded our senior unsecured rating from BBB+ to A- Stable reflecting the stability and cycle-tested out-performance of our in-fill portfolio coupled with the strength of our balance sheet.
With the upgrade Federal is joined with only 3 other U.S.
REITs in such a rating.
We expect that the upgrade will reduce our borrowing cost by 20 bps or more and importantly it's supported by the capital plan that this company has pursued for the last several years to maintaining debt to EBITDA in the 5 range and fixed charge coverage in the mid-3 range.
In other words the upgraded recognition of the conservative capital structure we had pursued will not reduce our flexibility but will improve our assets to and cost of capital.
Looking forward we have revised our 2013 FFO per share guidance upward to $4.55 to $4.59 per share to reflect the accretion from the acquisition of Darien as well as to reduce cost of borrowing under our new credit rating.
The leasing momentum POI growth and occupancy delivered during the first quarter were consistent with our expectations with the last call.
Again we expect overall same-store POI for the year in the 3 or 4% range for the balance of the year which reflects in part the loss of approximately $1.5 million in POI from taking down the balance of Mid-Pike Plaza associated with our Pike &amp; Rose redevelopment.
Also we expect overall occupancy to remain relatively flat during the year and to assume that bad debt remains relatively low from a historical perspective.
Finally our current guidance assumes our planned development and redevelopment expenditures will be mass-funded with equity issuance under the ATM and index eligible unsecured notes offerings in the latter part of the year.
I note our guidance does not assume that we prepay any of our near-term maturities which include the 5.40% senior notes maturing in December of this year.
We continue to actively monitor the debt market and may execute an offering earlier than currently forecast the proceeds of which might be used to prepay some of these near-term maturities.
Again our guidance does not factor this potential refinance activity nor does it include any potential acquisitions.
I know that some of you have assumed additional acquisitions during the year and while we feel very good about our pipeline of activity and not feel very good about this ultra competitive pricing environment it is difficult to predict what if any deals we'll actually make.
We will not lower our standards for quality for the sake of achieving quantity.
Thus we will update guidance by completion of any future acquisitions when they occur.
With that operator I would like to turn the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeffrey Donnelly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually this is a general question for you Jim first on the sources of capital.
What's your interest at this point given that people are talking about the difficulty in locating Class A assets and maybe exploring like a joint venture arrangement with institutional capital to monetize some portion of your assets maintaining control or even just raising equity that you might not have not identified use immediately? Jeff I'm not sure I followed your question.
I mean I think as it relates to thinking about joint ventures for acquisitions that's never really been part of our business plan if you will.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean for existing assets.
No.
I think our general bias is is that tends to complicate the balance sheet.
If we choose to dispose of an asset we'll dispose of it outright.
And we do evaluate that pretty actively.
The nice thing about an acquisition like Darien is that it sets us up for a reverse 1031.
Should we proceed with the sale of an asset we can do it on a very tax efficient basis.
It is a very competitive environment right now for asset pricing.
And again we just remain very disciplined in acquisitions like East Bay Bridge or Darien and focused on the growth potential of those assets going forward.
So for the right real estate in this capital environment we think we can create a long-term value accretion through acquisitions.
We just have to be disciplined on quality.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk about when you're looking at acquisitions how you're thinking about the exit cap rate relative to your entry? Given that it's so competitive and cap rates are low I'm just a bit curious how you're thinking about that? Yes.
We talk a lot about that.
And we don't get ourselves through compressing our reversionary cap rate.
We look at cap rates based on asset quality with a view towards what the long-term cap rate for that asset might be.
So while today we're in an environment of historically low cap rates supported by historically low interest rates.
As we think about centers like Darien or East Bay and we look out at our reversion cap rates we think about it more in terms of long-term averages for those assets.
And typically given where cap rates are today that can be an expansion in cap rate by over 100 bps over where our pricing is now.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a question on your assets on.
Pike &amp; Rose several apartment companies have just talked about supply concerns in future years moving out towards Rockville and some of that will probably be Pike &amp; Rose.
So I guess what concern do you guys have? Maybe you'll see some pressure on rents and multifamily in that market is could impact your initial yields? Is that sort of in your thinking or? Sure Jeff.
And it's something we always worry about and you have to consider in a long-term development project.
It's pretty clear that whatever environment you go into in development [ph] will be different -- there will be a different environment either better or worse when you're delivering.
But that's where they have enough room now and there's number of things to think about.
First of all if I look -- and I was just talking to our board about this yesterday.
If you look at all the projects that were going to be done in that White Flint card or in surrounds 2 years ago it was much a bigger list than it is today in terms of people who are actually moving forward.
And I think that's always the case.
There's always -- the question is when do developers turn off that supply's spigot.
So today all of that supply you've been hearing about is largely on the comp.
We're absolutely out of the ground we'll be the first ones to gain.
So that's a very very powerful piece of the economic equation.
To the extent there is a cycle  where there is too much supply and that depresses rents for a period of time that's just part of the cycle.
That will be what it will be.
Everything we're doing with respect to this is for the long term.
So I guess I'm trying to hedge if you will in 2 different ways there.
One we'll be the first one out.
Two I don't think there'll be as much supply as you think.
And actually three even if there is the long-term value and nature of where this project is within the district is I believe will be superior.
LLC Research Division</strong> And last question.
I know it's small potatoes but I thought I had read somewhere that you guys were looking at a residential use.
I think the Crest building in San Antonio is that just part of the process of trying to exit your presence down there? I don't think that's necessarily true.
Our investment in San Antonio is performing fine.
It's not great.
It is what it is.
We're always looking at different things to be able to the any of these buildings value creations throughout the portfolio.
I don't believe there's anything that's imminent certainly on the Crest building in San Antonio.
Christy McElroy.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the Darien acquisition it sounds like you plan to include Stop &amp; Shop in the future plan.
Can you talk about what kind of sales they're doing in that spot? And is a grocery-anchored center ultimately the best to use there given the pretty steep competition with Palmer's right next door and the new Whole Foods like a mile away? How many years is left on their lease? Great great questions Christy.
That's why I try to address it proactively in my comments.
So Stop &amp; Shop has 10 years -- 10.5 years something like that left on the lease in total.
No further options.
Nothing.
At that point in time.
At this point in time it's not a great Stop &amp; Shop.
You don't go you certainly -- it certainly wouldn't be a Stop &amp; Shop necessarily that would be #1 in the market or #2 in the market.
So the question as to whether they are a part of the future there is largely in their hands during the term of their lease because they have restrictions as you would have imagine.
So the question is one of 2 -- do they want to cut a new deal which is more in line of I believe where your thinking and I'm just implying that based on what your comments were or do we hang-out and clip coupons and wait and then have the door open to all kinds of things 10 years from now.
So my hope is that there'll be a deal that we work out with Stop &amp; Shop sometime in the much more recent near future than that depending on how it takes and exploit that Equinox which is at the other end of the property and is an extremely successful.
And you go in that Equinox that is our customer.
That is the customer we will be trying to serve with any redevelopment there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just doing the math on the term fees Don based on your comments does that mean that the Q1 lease term fees were about $900 000? And can you quantify in basis points the impact on same-store NOI growth of the lower term fees.
I just didn't know how many -- how much of it was attributed to the same-store pool.
We haven't...
It's over.
It's over 100 basis points.
I don't know if you have the total numbers.
It's about 130 to 140 basis points of impact Christy and your math is pretty close to right on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly.
Are you able to break out your re-leasing spreads in the quarter by small shops versus anchor space.
And just generally looking at 2013 would you expect there to be a meaningful difference between the 2? I'm just trying to get a sense for what kind of pricing power you have in the 2 categories? We look at that at year end and we'll probably revisit it in terms of discussion at year-end.
But I think what we're seeing on a quarterly basis is good performance both in the small shop and the anchors.
It's difficult in any 1 quarter to pull a trend because they can be swung by just a few individual leases.
But overall with the 12% rollover we saw strength in both the small shop and the anchors.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt.
Research Division</strong> Don earlier you said you haven't seen metrics like this since 2005.
I think one main difference however is in 2005 we really have that active development.
How much of the lack of development is making these metrics stronger? And if construction comes back does it come back quickly or is it a bit gradual? Craig first of all I can only speak for us.
And I think that developments that were underway now is depressing our results.
Not having a lack of development increase you know what I mean? I mean we are spending marketing dollars.
We are knocking down an existing shopping center and therefore losing the rent from the existing tenants that are netting down our results.
That will effectively accelerate throughout the balance of '13 and into 2014 yet we're still putting up metrics like this.
Now the difference between '05 and today I suspect Craig and this is just gut feel that we were doing more redevelopment on more smaller projects in 2005.
And today it's more of the larger projects.
But net-net I see those metrics as being pretty darn comparable.
I think Craig from an overall perspective I know a lot of people have been talking about the lack of new development in various markets allowing occupancies to improve and expectations of forward performance to continue.
Again I think where our assets are located we're less impacted by development just because of the barriers to entry.
So a little bit harder for us to generalize on that point.
Well I think what I just said for Federal is exactly right.
When you take that and extrapolate that and look at the -- all of our competitors and everything else there's no doubt that there is less construction and less development happening in the country in most markets.
And so in some respect you've got -- you may have that void set of metrics throughout the industry.
But as I say we're doing plenty of it and it's negatively impacting earnings but certainly long-term accretive.
Research Division</strong> And just out of curiosity do you think the consumers are going to be stronger in the second half of the year the same or weaker? I got to tell you I've been thinking a lot about that with what I see.
I mean I don't necessarily think the consumer will be stronger.
I think the consumer will be about where they are right now.
But frankly it's pretty darn good.
I mean in a lot of respect better than you would have thought it would have been at this point.
But when you think of things like the payroll tax reversion back to these payroll tax numbers sequestration throughout the country the continued sluggish stuff that is to me being offset to some extent by the home industry.
And a recovery if you will at homes which has more to do with psyche [ph] than anything else and certainly construction jobs in some extent.
So on balance I think there's negatives.
I think there's positives.
And consumers should be about where they are.
Paul Morgan.
Research Division</strong> On the rating upgrade you've mentioned that -- you said it shouldn't reduce your flexibility.
I mean I think in the past with some REITs it's been viewed a little bit as a mixed blessing because it has constrained strategy a bit the desire to maintain the rating.
And as you think about your ramp-up in development and the funding needs for that in the context of the A could you just give a little more color on kind of why you think you won't be constrained? I think our plan has always been about balance.
And when you think about the level of activity that we're doing relative to the size of our balance sheet it remains modest.
And then you look at stress case scenarios which we've gone through with rating agencies in terms of development not performing as expected and the resulting impacts on our coverages and overall leverage being relatively modest and you think about our long-term capital plan we're really not changing any of it as we pursue the development going forward.
So yes if our plan included levering up to do this type of activity significantly then yes Paul I would agree with you.
But our status-quo plan if you will does have us executing this does have executing future phases as it is appropriate for them to be executed.
When you take a big step back and you think about this company and the fact that there's probably $2.5 billion to $3 billion of capital that we can put to work in assets that we own today.
We have a lot of work to do over a long period of time.
And we're going to get to it in appropriate size and at appropriate yields over that period of time.
But we have -- and of course we're very transparent with the agencies as we discuss this.
Research Division</strong> So at least in the near term then it doesn't change kind of at all any of the kind of timing of the way you would invest your capital or kind of the scale of an ATM program or anything like that? No.
Again because we've always struck balance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then same question on Santana.
I mean you've had a lot of kind of other aspects of the project in the works the office components and sort of the retail at the end of the street.
Maybe see if you have any updates there.
Also with the state of the housing market in the Bay Area I mean you've always kind of considered one of the 2 new apartment projects as a condo conversion.
I mean could that happen sooner rather than later given how fast houses appreciated? I'll get Jeff on the call.
Let me start that Paul and Jeff please feel free to add on to this.
The one thing that is crystal clear is the value of that street to every other -- the value of the retail street to every other use there is -- has not peaked out yet.
It is getting better and better in terms of the community.
you can't believe the hotel results if you saw the hotel results.
In fact we're talking to that same hotel operator about Pike &amp; Rose and -- which I think is a very positive thing and obviously they're very positive because of what happens at places like Santana if you do the street right.
Well that applies to the residential in a big way.
I think you saw it with the what we call Building 60 which is Levare the residential projects.
Not the one that's under construction now but the one that we did 1 year 1.5 year ago.
We went in.
We felt we were going to do a 7.5 or 7.7 or something like that on the property and we hit 9 and leased up in record time.
This next one that we're building now in a city [ph] will it be as strong from an initial return perspective? No.
And that's partly because of the slightly higher construction cost and the need to have some amenities in that bigger project that we didn't need to do to a smaller building but still very very healthy.
The rental stream in particular there is one that we've spent a lot of time making sure that we have different levels of products for people to be able to move up and move through in the site.
There's a lot of value there and I think that that value will continue to grow.
So taking the money off the table in a condo there which as you know we did very successfully in 2005.
Well those people made a lot of money because there was an awful lot of growth after that point.
And so at this point with this true stability of the property we're very very hopeful to be able to continue to build that out.
The office building on the front which the timing was tougher because we went into that '08 '09 period still came out very value-added and it's completely leased up with a effectively waiting list.
There is strong office demand for Santana Row itself.
So when we look at the maturation in that property frankly Paul there we see the next decade as not only retail but residential or maybe some more office that truly needs to exploit the streets that's getting stronger.
Don I would only add on the street Paul and you noticed because you live out there we opened up a batch of new retailers last year.
Kate Spade Icebreaker Drybar VeggieGrill all of which opened very strong and are doing very well.
We opened a Madewell last week that just had a banner opening day on the first week.
We took the mall wall down this morning on Splendid.
We expanded Tesla early last month.
And we got another round of new tenants coming in as we work through our 10-year-olds.
So the momentum here on the street as Don said is just exceptional and definitely headed to the right direction.
So -- and that applies to the residential as well.
So we're not -- we're always thinking about the condo exit but that's not in front of mind right now.
And particularly because we -- while the housing market is strong here as you know we're not seeing the big gap between condo values and rental values that we saw back in '05 '06 when we executed the conversion and sold out for $150 million.
On the office side everybody that opens an office here and spends any time working here they love it.
Their employees love it.
In the Bay Area in particular environment for the high-paid engineer that works in these offices is very very important for recruiting and in employee retention.
Those things are front of mind for the executives that run companies out here.
And if you're not Yahoo! eBay Google and have the size and scope to have your own campus we basically have a built-in campus for you here at Santana.
So that's why we're proceeding with the planning on the office space here and that's why ultimately we think we'll be successful.
More to come on that over the next quarters and years as we move forward with that plan but very positive.
And like Don said I think the next 10 years in Santana are going to be very very exciting.
Our next question comes from Steve Sakwa.
Research Division</strong> Don I wanted to go back to the comment that you made about the business conditions being as good as you've seen maybe in 5 or 6 years.
And if I go back and look at some of your operating stats from kind of '04 '05 '06 '07 it'll be a little nostalgic but you are consistently above 95% occupancy a lot times breaching 96% 97%.
Your rent spreads are off in the high-teens and a lot of times in the 20s.
And I'm just curious when you kind of contrast to the pricing power you've got today at '12 while all that's best-in-class in the shopping center space how do you kind of look at the operating metrics again and compare that to say 5 years ago? Can we see those rents spreads and pricing power kind of get back to those '05 '06 '07 periods? That's a great question Steve and it's one that honestly I kind of go through and try to understand where the real pops are and value throughout the portfolio.
And when that whole conversation that Jeff just had about re-merchandising Santana Row with all those tenants he listed up that was all about trying to get -- I mean we have a specific target at Santana of getting tenant sales up until into the $700 a foot ranges to be able to price that.
That's the key.
And so there is a lot of focus on trying to be able to do that.
Having said that there is no doubt that tenants today fight harder and frankly are smarter about their ability to leverage their deals for rents.
And it is hard for me to see that on a consistent basis that we would be up and show rent spreads up in that 18% and 20% range portfolio-wide all the way through.
Understanding that though we're a larger company in terms of space we are tight on expenses.
We try to squeeze as much out of the margin as we can.
And so as a result to me when you look at the our -- look at this -- look at the retail real estate business this conversation about like same-store rents being up in the 4%s in the 5%s in the 6%s as you know and I know that long term this business does not yield 4% 5% 6% same-store growth.
A lot of that comes from higher occupancy.
So this is still a 3% business for best-in-class and more like a 2% business for average stuff.
And I thoroughly believe that.
The long-winded way of saying I think as we run the business over the next few years particularly given the stuff that we're adding to it I think we still have some pretty darn good pricing power.
We have a very good profitability power but I don't think you'll see it necessarily in those rent rollovers that are still kind of the levels from '05 -- '04 '05 '06 when it was easier to negotiate with tenants to get that kind of stuff done.
Our next question from Alexander Goldfarb.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions here.
First the IKEA in Boston they've decided to not go forward with that site and hence all the discussion right now.
But in doing the market tours it just -- it's impressive how big of a draw the IKEA stores are around the country.
I mean drawing people from different states hundreds of miles away to shop.
Is there any sense in your view that you could get IKEA to come back there just to increase the traffic flow and make it an even bigger destination? No sense whatsoever Alex nor we even try -- would we even try.
I think the idea of IKEA at that site which IKEA own that or the adjacent site that we traded for more than a decade I believe now at this point in time.
And there's one thing about trying to get a -- validate if you will a destination and IKEA was very important to do that back at that point in time.
I don't believe that that is necessarily the highest and best use of that property today.
I think there are better uses.
Whether we can get them done or not we'll see over the next few months.
But I think we can do better I guess is what I'm saying.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the next question is just going to the development returns.
You guys obviously -- you display the returns in something like Assembly Row where the returns are low.
But presumably when you go to the board and request the funds to build this they're not looking at the $5 million to $7 million.
They're looking at more of a long-term IRR.
So can you just give some color on the difference between the returns that we see here versus what the expectation is for an IRR given the long time that Federal tends to own these assets? I'm not going to give you an IRR on it but I am going to address your question without the number okay? You're absolutely right in terms of our discussion with the board in terms of your basic underlying assumption of would you put $200 million to work at a 5% or 6% yield.
If that were in a development project and the best -- were all you were doing the answer will be no.
So there's obviously more which is your point.
The question is how many of them make? If there is a large office tenant here that finds its home here and there's no proof that there would be because we haven't been able to do that in the past couple of years but if is it would dramatically change the IRR of this project.
If there is a hotel in the second phase of the existing street that we're very confident that we're going to do a good job with here it would increase obviously the return in the IRR of the project.
How many of those people get off the T-Stop [ph] which is really going to happen it's under construction now would really change the project.
Other opportunities that have come up and we're talking about with respect to adjacencies in the land for other uses and some big traffic-generating uses how much of that happens? So the way I'm -- what I'm trying to say to you is within Federal Realty $9 billion Federal Realty we've got a very -- lower risk developments like a $75 million building -- residential building on the back of Santana.
That's already proven.
Or some of those other projects.
Even Mid-Pike [ph] or Pike &amp; Rose on that street on that piece of land that's always worked out it's -- those are lower-risk projects.
Can we afford to do an assembly which is higher beta.
No question about it.
Higher beta.
But could work out a whole lot better to the extent those things happen.
And the answer to that is yes.
So there is just -- there's too much data on an assembly in and of itself for me to directly answer the question that you want.
But when you put it in the context of Federal I think it's a really smart risk to take.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the final question Don is you're always a big advocate of don't bet against DC retail.
The Post on their call specifically mentioned weakness at Assembly Row.
Are you seeing any weakness in the retail there? Or retail in DC is bullet-roof regardless of whats happening in -- with defense budgets et cetera? I assume you mean Pentagon Row.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
What did I say? Assembly.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Sorry sorry.
Pentagon Row.
Sorry.
Pentagon Row.
Yes.
When I look in total and I don't have the Pentagon numbers.
I'm depending on Row retail numbers here in front of me.
But when I look at where we are in the DC region in total on our retail no I am not seeing negativity.
I'm looking at in fact when you break down kind of the same-store growth if you will of the 3 regions -- and I don't want to give you the numbers for the 3 regions but then you'll always ask for the numbers for the 3 regions.
But I will tell you that the Northeast is #1 right now Mid-Atlantic right behind it and that's largely Washington DC at some very very healthy numbers and West Coast just behind that.
So no I am not seeing that weakness overall in Washington DC.
I don't know specifically about Pentagon but I doubt it.
Our next question comes from Cedric Lachance.
Don when you look at cap rate compression and value increases in the market over the last few years we can debate the relative changes and how far it's come along.
But it appears to me that key assets and second-tier assets are certainly from a historical perspective at a decent valuation point.
Would that motivate you to start a more aggressive disposition program and a more aggressive exit of some of the markets you don't want to be in? The whole notion Cedric of recycling assets is something that -- I mean [ph] always looking at.
But it comes with an overall umbrella in terms of the business plan of this company for long term consistent stable cash flow growth.
And so everything that we look at is through that lens.
And I can tell you while there are individual assets that we would sell we need to -- all of those individual assets even the ones that we would sell we carry big tax gains associated with them.
And so they need to be sold efficiently tax efficiently.
And I think somebody maybe it was Jimmy that mentioned potential 1031 off the Darien purchase that we're going to make.
You should expect that.
There are a couple of assets that we're looking at now that will be marketed that way but nothing more wholesale than that because we truly try to run this as a long-term proposition.
And I think a lot of that has to do with the consistency and the stability and everything that people can assume and count on.
So it's really important.
That's in the balance.
Okay.
And so you're perception on those assets as said [ph] they are reasonably well positioned so that you can continue to harvest the cash flow.
There's no evidence of declining cash flow over time or assets that could be declining that would push you to try to dispose of those earlier than we would anticipate? That's exactly right other than a couple of them.
And we will try to dispose those for other reasons at whatever cap rates they go at frankly.
But by and large in this portfolio -- this portfolio surprises me quarter in quarter out with great results from -- even what you would you consider the B assets.
Because its where the B assets are.
And its a definition of what's a B assets versus the world of "B assets" I think the better.
What's the right gap in cap rates between an A and a B? What's the right gap or what's happening today? Because they're very different.
No.
What's the right gap? And what would make you change your mind on acquiring As versus Bs if you see that this gap is not in the appropriate level? Let me answer that for you.
Jim is dying to answer this one but I'm going to jump on this one first.
There would not be a gap that would change -- that would cause me to change the business plan of the company.
And you can see that as obstinate or whatever you think.
I am a firm believer.
Firm.
That through cycles there's just no doubt in my mind that A properties will significantly exceed the results of B and C properties.
That doesn't mean any particular time.
That means absolutely.
When you look in through a cycle we've just lived through the difference between A properties B properties and C properties.
And I wish there were more -- it was more review if you will of what has just happened between 2007 and 2011 to the cash flow streams.
And on top of that when you look at a bunch of those leases that will be up for re-lease 10-year deals that were done in '05 '06 '07 when they come up I think a lot of the stuff you're going to see even with strength is going to show reductions in the cash flow.
And so I'm not going there.
We're not going to reduce the quality of the portfolio.
In terms of the spreads go ahead Jim you could -- anything you want to say? Not much to add there Cedric.
What I've been surprised by as we've looked at assets is that there's very little differentiation in cap rates between what I call nice but flat assets and assets that provide opportunities for upside.
So the compression in cap rates particularly in the markets that we're focused on has been pretty extreme.
Sorry [ph] I guess that leads me back to my first question.
Would that sell more B assets? I don't know.
I guess the difference should be 300 basis points or more.
Our next question comes from Quentin Velleley.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to Jeff's initial questions on Pike &amp; Rose residential.
Are you looking at maybe de-risking that residential exposure and bringing in a partner on the initial 493 units? Cedric it's a bigger question than that.
I mean when you look out at the entire development pipeline that Jim alluded to before we are trying to figure out whether given the phasing here we want to de-risk a portion of that entire pipeline.
Obviously Pike &amp; Rose being a part of that with the right kind of strategic partner.
Now that sounds like it's a -- it should be a simple decision.
It's really not.
And the reason it's not is because each of these projects that we've got we've got to this stage where we have taken a lot of risk out and we've had a lot of value in these things.
And so the idea of somebody else coming in today after all the entitlement process after the land accumulation after the design and after the construction and not paying what it would be on a stabilized basis here is very hard for us to give up.
It's not like there are a lot of other projects out there that you can go and reinvest those proceeds into and do better.
So yes we're looking at it but it's a tough hurdle to reach.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Makes sense.
And then just a clarification.
The cap rate on Darien in Connecticut I think you said was around about a 5.
I just wanted to confirm whether that was a GAAP cap rate or a cash cap rate? Cash.
Michael Mueller.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple quick ones for Jim.
Jim going to the notes offering that you're talking about for the second half of the year what would be I guess the deciding factor to get you to move it up earlier? And then if you do an earlier deal should we assume it's going to be a bigger deal than what you have been contemplating in guidance? No I don't think there'll be a bigger deal.
And obviously what we're really watching Mike and I appreciate the question is just the strength in the new issue market right now where treasuries are.
It's pretty compelling.
Obviously the use of proceeds would involve some prepayment penalties potentially so that's what you got to balance the decision against.
But the nice thing is that I think we have the opportunity to access that market very efficiently and effectively and we're looking hard at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess for the Darien acquisition were there any significant acquisition cost either last quarter or in the second quarter? Our total cost there were $150 000 something like that.
Pretty small.
And our last question comes from Vincent Chao.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a final question just on the overall Connecticut sort of market.
The last year or so there's been an increasing amount of activity from yourselves peers et cetera.
I know it's kind of a strange market.
I mean you've been tracking that deal for what sounds like about 10 years which seems to be the case for a lot of stuff that goes on out there.
Just wondering though given the increased activity are you seeing more opportunities there? Are sellers coming out of the woodworks now that there's been a couple of deals that have happened? And is there any opportunity to grow in that market in a more significant way than just sort of on a one-off basis? Well we think on a onesie or twosie ph] basis it's frankly the best way to do it.
That's how you ensure you get the quality.
We are seeing some more activities in it but it's -- a lot of it is off market.
So I'm cautious about it because one as I've often said just because it's off-market it doesn't mean you're not paying a preemptive price.
And two there can be a lower probability that the transaction will happen.
We are hearing from our broker friend about a bulge of new activity in their pipelines.
We just haven't seen it yet.
But clearly with the addition of Harold's [ph] up in that market all around the Northeast frankly it's really helped us increase the level of tire kicking if you will.
And we're hopeful that that would result in a couple more acquisitions.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you everyone.
We'll see you at ICSC and look forward to talking to you on the next conference call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2013 Federal Realty Investment Trust Earnings Conference.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Kristina Lennox.
You may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our second quarter 2013 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the trust's operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes that expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our second quarter 2013 results.
Don? Thanks Christina and good morning everybody.
This is a very powerful quarter for our company both in terms of reported results and for the deals and initiatives that were getting done that will set us up very well for the future.
Let me start out with about a dozen bullet points that summarize the progress and then I'll put more context around them.
First on the reported results side very very solid top line rental income growth of 8.4% in the quarter more than half of which came from same-center comparisons.
Same-center rental income grew 5.1%.
At the property level operating income line we grew 7.6% company-wide and 5.2% on a same-center basis.
It's important to understand that we put up those property operating income numbers despite very little in the way of lease termination fees in the quarter compared with well a lot last year.
We had $2.2 million of lease termination fees in last year's quarter compared with $300 000 this year a full $0.03 per share less.
When adjusting for lease termination fees in both periods same-center growth was 7%.
FFO per share of $1.14 excluding of course the $0.05 charge on the early payoff of our senior notes compared with $1.04 last year or a 9.6% growth and again that $1.04 last year was helped by those lease termination fees.
We ended the quarter with a portfolio that is 95.3% leased up slightly from the 95.1% leased at the end of the first quarter and up 110 basis points from the 94.2% a year ago.
Now as strong as those reported results were and they were helped again by the second straight quarter of near nonexistent bad debt consider the work that was accomplished during the quarter to set us up for continued operational outperformance in the quarters and years to come.
Leasing was very strong 103 comparable deals 471 000 square feet first-year new rent at $31.10 per foot versus last year the old rent at $27 or a full 15% more on a cash basis.
And that includes a significant roll down in capital for the re-leasing of the Best Buy building at Santana.
Let me talk about that for a minute.
For those of you who have been covering us for a long time might remember a very strong deal that we made with Best Buy back in 2003 which effectively had been paying market rent for a newly constructed building plus the full cost of that building over the last 10 years.
It was a great deal that ran its course and we're now re-leasing part of that building to a great new concept and in my view a tenant in the future that you'll be hearing a lot about called Fixtures Living.
Our lease regulars would have been off the charts to 22% excluding that Best Buy building but that's the beauty of the portfolio.
On balance its geographic and retail format diversity usually create a very strong overall company-wide portfolio result.
On the balance sheet side our timing and execution for issuing $275 million of 10-year unsecured notes at 2.89% which was treasuries at $177 million plus a spread of 112 couldn't have been much better.
We used the proceeds to prepay $135 million of 5.4% notes due this December which is why you see a $3.4 million charge for the early debt extinguishment on the P&amp;L and to partly fund our development pipeline.
The rest of it was cash on the balance sheet.
I would be remiss not to the point out the board's approval of a nearly 7% quarterly dividend increase beginning with the October dividend which will bring us to $3.12 a share on an annualized basis.
It represents the 46th consecutive year of dividend increases something that one other REIT in any sector in the country can say.
And all of this brings me to a discussion of our development and redevelopment pipeline and the reason why we have so much conviction in our direction and for that matter where future retail value creation lies.
Demand for the type of product that we offer is strong.
It's very strong.
And it's not primarily about filling space that has sat vacant for quite some time but can now be filled as the economy has a bit of wind behind it.
It's not about creating new greenfield projects and creating brand-new demand in places that may fill in someday.
To us it's much more about developing refining and re-merchandising existing retail destinations that address the things that are important to today's and tomorrow's consumers not yesterday's.
Destinations that serve lots of people with lots of money to spend and that play an inclusive role in their daily work and in their personal lives.
Traffic congestion is not getting any better in these cities and close-in suburbs and access to mass transit is playing a bigger and bigger role.
So our convenience to work lots of food alternatives and a healthy lifestyle we're seeing in demand and includes our mixed -- our new mixed-use developments but extends far past them into restaurant health club and even residential alternatives in most of our properties and markets.
Maybe the clearest example that we see today lies in the explosion of demand affecting the greater Los Angeles area west of the 405 Freeway.
These cities like Manhattan Beach Hermosa Beach El Segundo in Santa Monica are filled with residents who don't want to deal with the traffic and lifestyle issues necessitated by the clogged freeway system.
They live west of the 405.
They want to stay west of the 405.
I think it's one of the reasons that sales and tenant demand in our Plaza El Segundo center at retailers and restaurants on Third Street Promenade in Santa Monica and the early tenant demand we're finding during the planning stages our development called The Pointe look so strong.
The long-term trends in these types of locations look very very good to us and I'm not sure I can say about all types of retail.
If you add successful mass transit infrastructure like we've got at both Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose and the prospects look even better.
With roughly 14 months to go before opening the first phase of Pike &amp; Rose in Rockville 63% of the total rent pro forma and 72% of the retail GLA has been committed under either a fully executed lease or a heavily negotiated and signed letter of intent at this point in time.
Now the economics of this first phase of Pike &amp; Rose are going to rest with the success of the residential leasing and not the retail and so we won't have a handle on that until we start marketing the apartments in several quarters.
But the fact that the personality of this destination which is formed by the ground floor of retail experience has started out so positively is extremely encouraging.
It bodes very very well for future capital allocation decisions here with respect to future phases and construction of both Pike &amp; Rose remains on budget and on time.
Let's go to Somerville.
With roughly a year to go before opening the first phase of Assembly Row 61% of the total retail rent pro forma and 72% of the retail space has been committed under either a fully executed lease or a heavily negotiated and signed letter of intent at this point in time.
Nike factory store will join Saks OFF 5th as our 2 dominant outlet anchors.
Together with Steve Madden Brooks Brothers Le Creuset Chico's and 20 other outlet tenants we'll round out that important segment in the first phase.
We couldn't be more excited about landing entertainment anchor LEGOLAND Discovery Center for their only Boston area and in fact only New England site.
And they'll join the 12-screen AMC Theater and share the goal of introducing thousands of families and shoppers to the project.
And Canadian restaurant company Earl's will anchor that important segment and join previously announced Legal C Bar and Papagayo along 4 or 5 other full-service restaurants and a half a dozen quick service restaurants so that our food offering is varied and complete.
Separately we opened Starbucks this quarter and a local favorite Burger Dive on a pad that helps bridge the existing power center at Assembly with the new development.
As with Pike &amp; Rose Assembly remains on time and on budget.
And out in California the latest residential building at Santana which we call Misora is furthest along with the first move-ins expected by year end and pre-leasing underway and initial demand significantly exceeding our expectations.
Hereto we remain on schedule and on budget.
In our view this $500 million worth of development which is underway when combined with the very real future phases which if it all turns out as we hope and expect should follow on the yields of the first phase and create visibility to value creative opportunities that are really quite extraordinary.
And if you then consider the bread-and-butter shopping center redevelopments that have long been a core part of what we do add in some future larger long-term opportunities like Pike 7 in Tyson's Virginia and a very active and aggressive acquisition effort we simply feel that we have a wonderful and very unique opportunity to leverage our portfolio and track record to really create significant value to this class-leading portfolio in the years and decades to come.
That's all I have for my prepared comments this morning.
Let me turn it over to Jim to talk about our financial results and outlook in more detail and we'll get back to you after that with questions.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
As Don just outlined we had a great quarter on all fronts truly demonstrating how this portfolio and team outperform not just through the downturn but also in an improving economic environment.
Even with relatively stable occupancy the strong performance underscores the point that I've discussed with many of you and that is that well-located in-fill real estate truly outperforms through all cycles not just in a downturn.
In fact in good times great things happen to good real estate.
Further as Don discussed this improvement in the retail outlook has provided great tailwind for the investments and redevelopments that we are making at our prudent in-fill locations.
Importantly these investments position the company well not just for near-term accretion as these investments deliver but also long-term continued growth as we expect these locations to outperform from a growth perspective.
Before turning to the quarter I should note that much if not all of the rollover growth that Don discussed that exceeded 22% without Best Buy were 15% overall which includes all space no matter how long vacant.
This quarter really sets up our growth for next year and beyond.
The performance of the core portfolio and the visibility that the rollover provides on next year and beyond is truly remarkable.
In fact the NOI growth that we realized this quarter was achieved in rollover on leases signed as far back as 2 years ago.
I'm going to walk through some of the key underlying drivers for the quarter review some significant balance sheet items and liquidity discuss outlook for acquisitions and finally provide some details on our updated guidance for 2013.
Overall property operating income for the second quarter increased 7.6% to $112 million in the quarter compared to the prior year.
Consistent with prior periods most of the increase was attributable to increases in same-center POI which increased $5.1 million or 5% including redevelopments and $5 million or 5.2% excluding redevelopments.
As discussed last quarter this growth reflects the drag from the loss of income at Mid-Pike as we redeveloped that center into Pike &amp; Rose.
Additionally as Don noted in his remarks these increases in same-center POI were achieved despite a $1.9 million decline in lease termination fees.
Finally the properties we acquired in 2012 and 2013 continue to perform very well contributing to the balance of the increase in overall property operating income.
Our EBITDA margin improved on a sequential basis as we maintain control over non-reimbursable expenses and G&amp;A costs.
The slight increase in G&amp;A for the quarter was primarily attributable to incremental hiring and employee relocation costs as well as some modest deal costs in our acquisition of Darien.
With that investment in people and the projects that we are bringing online we still expect overall G&amp;A to be down slightly from last year including the CFO transition costs were up slightly if you exclude those costs.
Interest expense on an overall basis decreased $1.6 million in the second quarter versus last year.
This decrease was due to our overall -- lower overall weighted average borrowing rate partially offset by a higher average balance as we carried the excess proceeds from our May debt offering as cash on our balance sheet.
These factors taken together drove another record quarter in terms of FFO with overall adjusted FFO of $74.5 million excluding the make-whole Don mentioned earlier; an increase of $7.8 million or 11.6% over the prior year quarter; and adjusted FFO per share of $1.14 an increase of 9.6% over the prior year quarter of $1.04.
With that strong performance we are pleased to announce as Don mentioned an increase in our dividend to an annual rate of $3.12 which represents almost a 7% increase.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We continued to pay off mortgage debt during the quarter as it became prepayable retiring a $19 million mortgage associated with Crow Canyon.
In addition we raised $50 million of equity under our ATM at a weighted average price of $116.55 per share which significantly exceeded the volume weighted average price during the open window we had in the quarter.
We did step back from the ATM during the quarter as the markets became volatile in May and June.
As Don mentioned we closed on our public offering of $275 million of 2.75% coupon notes matching the all-time low 10-year coupon achieved in the REIT space.
And in June we redeemed the 5.40% senior secured -- unsecured notes which included a make-whole of $3.4 million.
Subsequent to quarter end we finalized the sale of our 5th Avenue asset in San Diego California and entered into an agreement to sell our Forest Hills asset in Long Island New York for a total sales price of $36 million or implied cap rate below 5%.
The Forest Hills sale is still subject to buyer's due diligence.
We plan to take advantage of a reverse 1031 exchange on our Darien acquisition to defer the taxable gains resulting from these sales.
Looking forward we have revised our 2013 FFO per share guidance upward to $4.56 to $4.60 excluding make-whole to reflect the ongoing strength in our underlying portfolio and continued improvement in tenant performance.
Again we expect overall occupancy to remain relatively flat during the year.
Where we end up in that range of $4.56 to $4.60 will depend on timing of tenant rollover always the biggest driver and other income drivers such as the term fees.
Finally our access to capital and liquidity has never been better.
Even with this volatility our debt pricing remains low on both an absolute and relative basis given our strong balance sheet.
We have over $100 million of cash and $600 million of availability under our line of credit.
In addition we retained great access to our ATM.
All of this provides maximum flexibility in funding our planned development and redevelopment expenditures for the balance of next year -- or balance of this year and next year.
Some of you have assumed additional acquisitions during the year and while we feel very good about our pipeline of activity it's not the pricing for high-quality assets in this ultra competitive environment.
It's difficult to predict what if any deals we'll actually make.
We will not lower our standards for quality just for quantity.
Thus we will update our guidance upon completion of any future acquisitions when they occur.
Some of you have inquired as to whether the recent volatility in the capital market which saw the 10-year widen by as much as 100 bps has reset cap rates.
As demonstrated by our recent asset sales and supported by our ongoing acquisition activities we have not seen a movement in cap rates.
Sellers might be more anxious to move more quickly but competition for quality assets which has never really been driven by leverage remains high.
With all of that said we feel very good about our pipeline and hope to be able to announce some federal quality transactions in the coming months.
Finally before I end I ask that all of you be on the lookout for a save the date for an Investor Day at Assembly Row in early October.
As Don mentioned we are extremely excited about our progress at Assembly and look forward to seeing many of you there.
With that operator I would like to turn the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Don I think we can debate the reasons but I think the performance of Federal as a stock this year hasn't necessarily reflected the operating successes or potential that may exist in the portfolio.
I know you don't want to give guidance but can you talk in broad strokes first about how you see core growth shaking out the next 2 to 3 years compared to maybe recent trends? And then secondarily when the developments of Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly could begin to meaningfully impact the bottom line? Yes.
I think that's -- I can Jeff give you points of view on it anyway.
The first thing I do want to say and I think it's really hard anytime you've got a company that's got a bunch of development coming on I see lots of people who refer to Federal as trading at a 4.7 cap.
Well there's $460 million or so on the balance sheet as construction in process and the idea of taking income and dividing it by a total asset base that includes assets that are not performing and are not put into service yet seems unfair effectively.
So at some point we're going to get to this conversation and I think as Jim said in the last -- and he said we're going to get you up to Assembly in the next 60 days or 75 days and I'd love to get everybody better educated effectively on exactly what it is that we're doing there and exactly what it is that we're doing at Pike &amp; Rose so that there can be a better understanding of the core vis-a-vis the development opportunities that are not opportunities any longer.
They're being constructed.
So that's an important distinction first I think when you talk about underperformance Jeff but that needs to be understood better and I think that's primarily on us to do a better job that way and it's probably the right time.
When you talk about the core look I've said this before I get -- I'm not sure everybody agrees with me but I just believe that this business is a 3% business on the side of Federal and I think it's a 1.5% or 2% business in terms of same-store growth when you take out lease-up when you take out occupancy changes and you simply talk about what overall portfolios grow in terms of NOI.
That's the business that we're in.
That doesn't mean any quarter.
That doesn't mean any necessarily year.
But it is the business that we're in.
For -- when I see Federal what I have seen over the past it's now 3 or 4 quarters is better leverage in our ability to push rents.
And I think it shows not only in the numbers but I think it shows in the amount of yields effectively that we're getting done.
I don't see that stopping.
I see -- softening is the wrong word but I see it leveling out a little bit as we get into these summer months and we'll see how that goes for the rest of the year.
But there is clearly pent-up demand for the right kind of locations.
And I think if you take a look deep into these results that you'll see it's very broad based.
And that is something that has continually gotten better over the years.
So that doesn't mean any period of time you're not going to see 4% growth from us 5% growth from us.
Even more this quarter was really really strong.
And part of this quarter again as we picked up occupancy year-over-year not as much as some of our competitors but nonetheless there is a component of that associated in there.
So I don't know Jeff if that's as much as you need or you want some more on it but the notion of kind of thinking about this company long term what it's going to do it's 3%.
And when we get -- start getting the incremental benefit from those developments which will start in the second half of 2014 and certainly positively impact '15 and then more so in '16 and frankly when you look at the future phases beyond that it is -- it's visibility towards value creation that is kind of hard to see everywhere in our business.
It's right there.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just maybe 2-part on Assembly Row.
First is there any status update on the IKEA parcel? I'm sorry I might have missed it in your remarks.
And then the other is the apartment rents there look pretty attractive and I'm sure Avalon will have a good experience.
Is there any prohibition or lockup on Federal starting construction on additional multi-family in the near like -- in the next 1 or 2 years? Or do you have like a window for them when they're going to be protected? Let me give you -- there is no such prohibition.
We -- it's market driven.
We'll evaluate that opportunity for future phases.
We're certainly going to watch and see how they do in the first phase.
I'd be lying to you if I told you I wasn't a little bit envious because I think from everything we can tell in terms of demand and the market rents that they'll achieve you'd have to talk to Avalon about this but I think they're going to -- I think it's going to be great.
And when it comes to future phases we're -- I mean look we're going to look hard at trying to learn from that.
We'll have a bias to doing it ourselves.
But we're going to wait and see and there's no prohibition one way or the other on our ability to do that.
No handcuffs.
When it comes to the IKEA parcel I did not mention the IKEA parcel and I probably should have.
We have the approval to buy the IKEA parcel.
And we've got another -- we got board approval to that.
In fact we got that done yesterday.
We have not decided internally whether we're going to do that or not.
We will decide that in the next 2 months.
We got until the end of September effectively to exercise that option with IKEA.
Right now I would handicap it better than 50-50 that we're going to get that done.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And just maybe a last question for Jim.
As G&amp;A costs picked up a little bit are you still comfortable with about $30 million a year for G&amp;A? And secondarily is there any ability to accelerate refinancing of your 2004 debt maturities just to take advantage of where rates are? Both good questions.
Yes I think that's a reasonable run rate Jeff in terms of G&amp;A.
And again ticked up slightly this quarter because we were making investments in people as we're bringing this value creation online.
So employee hiring relocation costs et cetera including bringing on board Russ Joyner who's going to manage the Assembly Row project for us.
In terms of that debt refinancing opportunity very very much in our focus particularly when you consider where rates are the ability to go out long on terms.
And frankly the expensive costs that the debt and the mortgages that are coming due next year both next year Jeff at the 7.5%.
And frankly in 2015 we got some 7.95%.
So we're looking at it.
Again we're sitting with some cash on the balance sheet.
And I think as I've always said we never want to be in the market when we have to be.
We're going to be opportunistic.
It's part of what drove our decision to do the 2.75% bonds that we did and we'll wait until the market conditions are favorable to do that.
Our next question is from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Don some of your California comments remind me of a T-shirt that reads life begins west of Sepulveda.
Actually we just need to adjust those T-shirts and say Life begins at Sepulveda because that's where Plaza El Segundo is.
Research Division</strong> A question on development.
When I look at the cost to date relative to the projected cost on both Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly Row it's still pretty minor.
When does that start to pick up more aggressively? When will we start to see you spend more on the cost of those development projects? We're -- we -- I mean they are both in full force right now.
Now how some of that -- how some of the cash is playing out is based on how we're negotiating the -- how we negotiate the contracts et cetera.
But we are there fully.
So you should see third quarter which will be stronger than second quarter fourth quarter stronger than that and a continuation into the middle or actually third quarter of next year.
By that point with a little bit of luck we're going to be talking about maybe an additional phase at Pike &amp; Rose that could follow right on.
But there'll be a little bit of gap there.
But that's really the period of time that you should see the next 4 quarters straight.
Our next question is from Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions here.
First Don you talked about things starting to pick up in the back half of next year as the deliveries -- as the redevelopment starts to hit and really it's '15 and '16 but if you think about it from development there's always that initial drag which means probably it's more of a negative from an FFO perspective in '14 before you get all the NOI contributing in the '15.
Obviously Federal is a company that wants to grow earnings and does consistently over time.
Does this make you guys want to be more aggressive on the acquisition front to sort of buy -- fill in to offset that drag for next year? Just want to know how you guys are thinking about it.
That's a fair question Alex and let me be unequivocal.
No.
The -- our acquisition criteria our acquisition approach our acquisition shipments effectively and the way we go about that is not impacted one iota based on what earnings are going to be.
Those are 2 completely separate things.
The company -- look this company is primarily we believe it through and through is about value creation in the real estate.
There are times when that value creation works beautifully in terms of FFO growth and there are times like bringing on development as you rightly point out when there is a lag that gets picked up later on.
But the driver is the value in the real estate.
And you very appropriately talked about that drag there.
Let me say this even with the drag that naturally happens from -- you're going to see -- we still certainly expect to see FFO growth next year.
So I don't want you to think that we'll be going backwards.
The going question is what's the core doing versus what the development doing in.
And it's incumbent upon us to do a little bit better job than we've been doing to tell you the truth on -- in understanding of how those 2 components really contribute to the company.
And it's kind of the same conversation I was having before in terms of what the actual implied cap rate of this company and that goes together and it's incumbent upon us to break that out a little bit differently.
But please don't think oh my gosh in order to get more earnings we're going to go make some acquisitions to be accretive.
If we did that -- you wouldn't want this team here doing that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then the second question is for Jim.
And as you guys -- obviously interest rates have been very volatile as of late.
The jobs number today and depending on who the Fed -- who the president replaces in the Fed we could end up with a dubbish [ph] environment in which case the question's sort of mute.
But assuming the new interest rate volatility how has that impacted your thoughts for your approaching the $130 million of June '14 mortgages as far as getting out early and maybe doing some prepay or just saying you know what I think that rates are probably going to be where they are right now so no sense in doing anything aggressive ahead of that.
Look I mean no one's crystal ball is perfect Alex as you well know and we're not about trying to time the market.
The thing that we do look at is what is the health of the market at any particular point in time and is it a favorable environment in which to go out and raise capital.
Clearly we saw that earlier in the year.
I think this volatility that the market has seen over the last couple of months has made it less advantageous to be an issuer in the environment.
Folks who are paying new issue concessions that were pretty material I think we've seen that market settle in a little bit.
But I think what's important for us again is to always have maximum flexibility to access the market when appropriate and not when you see a lot of dislocation and unfavorable dynamics from an issuer's perspective.
Our next question is from Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions on your same-store NOI growth.
It seems like the recovery rate was up about 170 bps year-over-year.
Is there a way to quantify the impact that that had on same-store NOI growth in the quarter? And can you remind me was there anything onetime impacting that ratio a year ago? No no.
Again I think the biggest difference Christy year-over-year in the same-store really was the term fees that we had last year.
We had a couple of significant term fees out on the West Coast that we didn't have this year.
Otherwise really the bulk of the same-store growth was driven by min rent not so much by recoveries.
And if there's something that we can provide the additional detail let's catch up offline.
But effectively pretty straightforward in terms of what the drivers were of that NOI growth.
Research Division</strong> The -- you report your same-store NOI growth on a GAAP basis.
Is that correct? Is it any different on a cash basis? Yes.
No not materially.
I mean again if you look at our overall GAAP adjustments coming down from the revenue line you can see that they're not material.
And when you think about our same-store portfolio and I think this is an important point when you include redevelopment in our same-store portfolio it's effectively 95-plus percent of our NOI which I think is unique in our sector.
A lot of people will take that "same-store pool" and make some adjustments as to what's truly comparable.
So you're looking at NOI that's maybe only 75% of total NOI that's in your same-store pool.
We try to keep it simple.
And so really when you look at what we've disclosed on our GAAP adjustments you can see what we're doing overall and it's basically right in line with what's happening on the same-store pool.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'd definitely love to follow up offline about it.
Second question.
I think back in '06 you were in the mid to sort of upper 97% range for occupancy.
I'm wondering how much upside do you see in occupancy today.
Looking at your small shop lease percentage of 90.7% would the bulk of the upside be in that part of the portfolio? Yes I think it would.
I mean -- 97% is -- I don't remember it being 97%.
I guess we...
We rounded up to 97%.
But that is very fully leased in the portfolio.
And I actually would not expect to get to -- I mean it could happen in any particular quarter but I would not expect it to be at 97%.
Having said that there's still room to go.
Absolutely there's still room to go.
And the small shop rent is where -- small shop occupancy is where it primarily would happen.
As we're at 90% or 91% we've been as high as 94% we've been as low as 89% in -- on that sector.
So there's room to go there.
Research Division</strong> I've 97.7% in the third quarter of '06 or maybe that's wrong but that's what I have in my model.
Of course it's right.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Brandon Cheatham of SunTrust and Robinson Humphrey.
Just had a quick question.
I'm wondering how the market dynamics have potentially changed your view on future phases of your development and if you have any color on the timing of additional phases.
It's a great question.
What will color our view on future phases will be results of our first phase and how we're doing.
I can tell you that as you know development is a long-term business.
The idea that -- and none of these developments we're doing for the first phase is to be done and just standalone that way because as you see from Santana as you see from lots of our projects it is those future phases where we really create value in a significant way.
I mean those residential buildings are happening out of Santana at 8% and the last one was almost a 9% deal versus you tell me what the cap rate is on that kind of money.
That's serious value creation and so we would certainly expect to be able to build out the balance of these projects.
Now we're going to see how the first phase is doing.
We're taking information in all the way along.
Just like the first quarter the first -- the earlier call asking about Assembly and how Avalon will be doing on those -- on the apartments that will be very very important information for us to assess the likelihood of additional demand at that location.
Right now that is looking real good but we don't have to guess about that.
In the next 6 months we'll see it.
Our next question is from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> And just going back to the financing side of things.
I mean where do you see debt spreads today for 10 year if you were to do the deal that you did earlier today? Yes it's moved out.
We did the last deal at about 1.12% and I think it's probably moved out 25 -- 20 25 basis points from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just sticking with the funding side of things.
In terms of the remaining -- the CapEx spend for the rest of the year in the past I think you've talked about using a mix of debt as well as ATM usage to fund that and you've also noted some volatility here that's causing you to move away from the ATM usage here recently.
Just curious given that the private market cap rates still haven't really moved do you see more dispositions increasing as a funding source? We'll be opportunistic there just as we are on the acquisition side.
We typically will try to match up dispositions with acquisitions so that we can do it most efficiently.
We've owned our average assets 20 years so we need to focus on the efficiency of those transactions.
But we're always evaluating the different markets and trying to put ourselves in a position that we're not stuck in any particular execution.
With that said I do need to point out that we will remain disciplined from a balance sheet perspective.
We're not going to let our metrics deteriorate something that we focused on because that's the basis of our flexibility.
That's what gives us the ability to raise capital most efficiently in a manner that is opportunistic for the company.
So that discipline will stay.
And again whether it's future dispositions or equity raises will be driven a large measure by what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
I was curious in the press release regarding the Chelsea Place completion you talked about a modular design that helped to shorten the time frame for development and that kind of thing.
I was just wondering if you could just quantify some of the benefits that you saw from that and if that's something that can be applied to other -- some of your other residential projects.
Okay.
I love that you asked that question Vin.
I'll tell you what that's about.
It's something we're still in the early phases of.
I mean obviously we own lots of shopping centers in very in-fill locations.
And the ability to do some residential on in-fill locations is something that we've always looked at very closely.
But by the same token living in the back of a shopping center may not be on the top of everybody's list in terms of a place to be.
So trying to balance demand with the economics has always been a challenge and would be all the time.
By doing a modular design it does seem at the particular location that we're talking about which is Chelsea Massachusetts just outside of Boston and I do mean just outside of Boston very close in suburbs.
In order to make the numbers work given where we thought market rents were we needed to find a way to effectively take costs $1 million -- let's call it 10% or 12% out of the cost basis to make it -- make some sense without doing just a bare-bones project that wouldn't satisfy the market.
Modular may have given us that opportunity.
I think it did in that particular case.
Now whether that's able to be exploited and moved on to 3 4 5 or 6 other places it's the experiment that we're in the middle of right now but it does open up a new way of looking at the building that is very different obviously than what we would do at Pike &amp; Rose or Assembly or any of the other larger mixed-use projects.
So that's kind of where we were on that one and more to come in terms of the next couple of years in terms of whether we can find a couple of other places to deploy $13 million at an 8 or better than an 8.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean if we're thinking about it it really sounds like it wouldn't necessarily increase the yield but just opens up more opportunities to do more of that kind of development.
Effectively it does increase the yield in terms of those because if we...
Research Division</strong> But it wouldn't be -- it wouldn't go to 12 but you'd just have more of those opportunities that you could -- you'd actually...
That's right.
There's a project when there wouldn't be before.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that something -- I mean that was specific to the construction coming you're using there.
Is that something that's pretty widespread you think? Oh it's widespread.
And there are absolutely other developers that use that.
But what I'm not sure of is whether that modular design is really the critical thing in terms of being able to make the projects work as opposed to really understanding what the market rents are and what the product that had to be built is.
Modular just gives us another way to look at it to compete within developers within other construction companies.
And Vin one thing to point out when we talk about modular construction when you actually see the product you can't tell.
It's very well executed and we're pleased with how the units look and we're certainly getting very positive feedback from some of the initial residents.
Our next question is from Omotayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus on Assembly Row a little bit.
And just with the hiring of Russ exactly what -- again he's kind of been tasked with over the next 12 to 18 months to make sure that the project itself is a rousing success? It's a good question.
And Tayo is talking about Russ Joyner who is a new hired General Manager that we hired for -- specifically for Assembly.
And I just want to give a little kind of shout out to Russ because we stepped up here.
We got a very experienced guy a guy that came directly from Miracle Mile Shops in Vegas has terrific experience with Hollywood and Highland and a number of other big projects throughout the country over the last 15 20 years.
He also played with Doug Flutie whilst in college back in the 80s.
So that's not a bad thing for the local conversation.
But Russ is a very qualified guy who getting in early in a big mixed-use project we have found from Santana from Pentagon from Rockville that it's critical to a full understanding of how the projects' coming together how the leases are being negotiated from an operating perspective.
He's looking very closely at the marketing plans the grand opening how it all ties together the place-making the tenant relationships as they -- as the space is turned over to them.
Very very critical to not do that too late.
So that your operating team comes on after development and construction have effectively built the place out and leasing the place out without -- it makes it much harder to have the right kind of synergies between those departments if you bring them on too late.
That's what he's doing here now and we're thrilled to have him.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Very helpful.
And then just in regards to marketing Assembly Row to the general community could you kind of talk about some of the new initiatives taking place? I'm not going to get down to the individuals things that we're doing per se but I will tell you on a big picture there are some major things to think about.
One is the Riverfront in Somerville Massachusetts on the Mystic River has never been exploited.
It's never been opened up and effectively used as the amenity that it could be to the community.
We've done that now and that's one of the reasons I can't wait to get you there to see it in terms of how it really adds to the feeling of this property.
It's really really important.
Secondly we signed a temporary deal brought in a temporary deal on the adjacent parcel in fact effectively on the IKEA parcel for a Cirque du Soleil type of show called Cavalia which will bring in more than 100 000 people over the next 7 8 10 weeks.
It's kind of longer there.
But the first show is next week.
That will get people to understand how to get in there how it all works and we think it's really really positive.
And frankly if you saw the tents and the view from the highway from 93 of this I think you'd be blown away.
In addition to that we do much more of the traditional marketing stuff in terms of events using that park activating it getting people comfortable and understanding where it is that we're going or how to get there and how to be part of it before a large grand opening party which will take place next year.
You're already seeing some of the activity benefiting the power center in terms of activity and traffic.
And with the completion of the Starbucks and Burger Dive that Don mentioned you're starting to see how the site fits together and I think our tenants there are thrilled about what's going on and the attention that we're drawing to the project.
Our next question is from Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisor.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Don when I look at the 2 dispositions that you're making this quarter I guess closing early next quarter they seem to be away from other assets that you own.
What does that -- or these 2 transaction tell us in regards to the need for asset concentration in a particular market? And where do you think it should be for your company in terms of critical mass in any particular market? In both cases Cedrik both of those assets both San Diego and Forest Hills go back to a time where we acquired street retail assets on a one-off basis.
It's a really hard way to do it in a public company of our size.
And so over the past 10 years we've disposed of most of those one-off assets.
In fact it really impacted how we thought about Newbury Street in Boston if you remember just a couple of years ago.
We bought a few buildings.
We thought we could get more.
When we couldn't get the largest portfolio we immediately turned around and sold them because we don't want to be involved as a kind of an absentee landlord with one-off triple net.
We can't do -- we're not going to make any money in that kind of situation.
So the ability to have -- to get a very good price I think you'll be very happy with the cap rates that you see on them the first one is closed.
The second one I mean that deal could fall through.
It's in due diligence now.
It'll -- it's scheduled to close I think in early September.
But assuming it happens I think you'll see why a private owner can take that and have it at work get a low cap rate for that person but for us to be able to shelter that tax gain which is substantial over the 10 and 15 years that we've owned these assets and roll it into something like Darien on a tax efficient basis where we see and we have a plan to be able to create some significant value or we hope to have a plan and be able to do that is to us just smart recycling.
And that's what we're about.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in regards to asset concentration in any particular market you touched on street retail.
What does it mean portfolio-wide? How important is it to have some sort of critical mass in the markets you target? Yes Jim I'm chomping at the bit hold on.
We like the markets that we're in Cedrik.
We think over time that the way those markets work together and interact help us continually outperform.
In terms of areas that we're particularly focused on obviously we'd like to add more in the Northeast and hence you saw the Darien acquisition and we hope to be able to do a few more things up there.
But generally speaking we remain focused on the markets where we are and think that those markets are going to position us well for the next several years.
And when you think about that Cedrik don't you think about acquisitions.
Think about this development pipeline.
Think about what kind I was talking about with respect to Plaza El Segundo.
And we're not there on the numbers yet but I think we will be in terms of being able to do the point which is on some really nice new development adjacent to it because of that.
Would I like to be -- would like it to be bigger in Southern California? Absolutely would.
I mean those assets have performed and we expected to continue to perform extremely well.
The same thing with respect to our additional investment in Northern California.
Boston is going to be a critical market for us as Assembly Square comes on and continues to do -- and we continue to build it out going forward.
Rockville right here in Washington D.C.
with Pike &amp; Rose and what's happening with Pike &amp; Rose and everything else that we own here makes us important in those markets.
It make us do a better job when we're there.
So I believe thoroughly in the concentration of a few markets that are very different.
And I've said this before having the volatility of Northern California with the stability if you will of the Northeast and mid-Atlantic is really -- it's terrific.
And that doesn't mean that we couldn't -- you couldn't see us out of Seattle if something was -- were happening there or to get bigger in Florida in the type of assets that we'd like to buy you could see that all day long.
But you won't see -- you have to basically consider us in the markets that we're in and we still see largely because of the development pipeline a whole lot more to do in those markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one just thing on development.
Where do you think the rents you've been signing at Assembly compare with what you had underwritten? And are you been a little bit ahead a little bit behind? Where are you at in terms of rent levels? We're where we thought we were going to be.
A little bit ahead on the restaurant deals that were there.
The subsidized deals that we have to do in terms the Nikes and the Saks' are just that as we thought they would be.
The theater deal is a big deal.
And the theater deal is right where we thought it was going to be.
LEGO we specifically did for that use a little worse than we expected to be.
But you know what that's what it is.
It's an underwriting forecast that has things that are better and worse.
Overall we're right where we thought we were going to be.
But as I said I think the restaurants will push it up a little bit more than that.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Kristina Lennox.
Thank you Christine and thank you everyone for participating in our second quarter earnings conference call.
Again like Don and Jim mentioned please keep an eye out for our Assembly Row Investor Day save the date that will be held at the beginning of October.
Thank you.
Thank you and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Federal Realty Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dawn and I will be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Kristina Lennox.
Kristina you may begin.
Thank you Dawn.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to thank you for joining us today for Federal Realty's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Our third quarter 2013 supplemental disclosure package provides a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the trust's operating and financial performance.
This document is currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and costs of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operation.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our third quarter 2013 earnings results.
Don? Thanks Kristina and good morning everybody.
Let me start out this morning by thanking those of you on that call who either came to or listened to the webcast of our Investor Day presentation at Assembly Row in Massachusetts a few weeks back.
We had a ball up there and really appreciated the opportunity to share our excitement about Assembly Row as well as our vision for the future of the entire company with many of our most interested owners and analysts.
If you were unable to get up to Boston you can still access the webcast through our website at federalrealty.com.
We used the time we have with you that day not only to lay out the most recent status and plans for our Assembly Row development but also to discuss our long-term business plan.
What it is that we expect from the high-quality core portfolio the impact of smaller redevelopments the occasional acquisition and of course the larger mixed-use developments in Somerville Rockville San Jose.
We remain convinced that the right combination of those business plan components gives us more visibility more transparency and more likelihood of achieving sustained and superior growth in both earnings and asset value over the next decade than anybody in the business.
Third quarter 2013 results helped validate that premise.
So let me go through those numbers.
First though you might remember that last year's quarter benefited from that $6 million termination fee from Safeway.
That was $0.09 a share related to the Genuardi lease in New Jersey and it was also hit by $2 million or $0.03 a share going the other way for the CFO transition costs when Jim Taylor joined the company.
There were no such unusual items this quarter.
So when I talk about comparisons between this year and last that excluded the impact of those 2 items last year.
So same-center property income grew 5.7% when excluding redevelopment 4.9% when including it.
The impact of including redevelopment this particular quarter is negative as we vacated smaller[ph] space in preparation for redevelopment.
Those are very strong numbers earned without the benefit of large occupancy gains.
Those numbers reflect once again tenant health as an industry that is as good as it's ever been with years of 0 bad debt expense.
FFO per share of $1.16 compared with $1.06 last year or 9.4% growth.
And we didn't lever up to get any of that growth.
In fact even with the ambitious development program in full swing net debt as a percentage of total booked capitalization went down.
We ended the quarter with a portfolio that is 95.3% leased the same as at the end of the second quarter and up slightly from the 95.1% a year ago.
Again our income growth story is not primarily one of filling long-standing vacancies but rather negotiating new leases at significantly more rent than the prior lease.
In that regard we completed 89 leases during the quarter for which there was a previous tenant for 274 000 feet of space at an average rent of $39.12 20% more than the tenants they replaced or renewed.
Leases from new replacement tenants which made up about a 1/3 of the total deals were raised at 39% more rent while renewals representing about 2/3 of total deals were up 9%.
And one more thing of all the deals done this quarter 2/3 had contractual annual rent bumps of 3% or more.
The overall retail leasing and business environment is pretty strong in the coastal markets we're operating in with nearly all types of retailers and restaurants looking for A locations and willing to pay up for them.
Case in point in the quarter was Best Buy's option exercise at Santana Row.
You may remember from my second quarter conference call remarks that we have signed a deal with Fixture Living for that space thinking that it was highly unlikely that Best Buy would exercise their last 5-year option at the very strong rent required to do so but they did.
And they did because the company was unwilling to lose a very important Silicon Valley location.
As a result our 2014 FFO would be $0.04 per share higher than we were forecasting on that deal alone.
And they're not an anomaly.
Right now the landlord's position is particularly strong in locations like this one.
This core portfolio and the consistent sustainable and transparent growth that it provides to this company is the foundation of this business plan.
It's the reason we can take the approach we have taken just supplementing it with selective acquisitions with growth prospects that are equal or better than the core as well as development or redevelopment initiatives that not only provide incremental cash flow to the company but also grow faster and establish a long runway for value enhancement for the foreseeable future in amounts that are large enough to really move the needle in a company of our relatively small size.
So let's talk about where we are in these fronts at this point.
First both our investment committee and then our board approved a new 115 000 square foot lifestyle-based retail center adjacent and complementary to our Plaza El Segundo Shopping Center in Southern California.
The $80 million project which we marketed as the Pointe is now fully entitled and will be under construction shortly with a 2015 opening schedule and a near 8% initial return.
The Pointe will greatly benefit 2016 results.
Plaza El Segundo itself has outperformed our underwriting in the first 2 years of ownership.
And I think our ability to get such a meaningful supplementary project underway in such a short amount of time really speaks well to both the initial acquisition strategy surrounding Plaza El Segundo and the adjacent land as well as the West Coast team's ability to find and execute additional value-creative opportunities.
Retail and restaurant demand for The Pointe has been exceptionally strong and has given us added impetus to move forward at this time.
Stay tuned for more as we get underway.
Staying on the West Coast for now but moving north to San Jose I'm pleased to report that a $75 million investment in Misora the 212-unit residential project at Santana Row remains on time and on budget with strong pre-leasing demand making us very optimistic about its success.
The first move-ins are expected by year end in the first section of the project with construction on the later section finishing up midyear and the building largely leased up by the end of 2014.
Misora will generate an 8% yield in a market where new A-quality residential trades in the low 4s or even below.
That's $75 million of immediate value creation.
Heading back east the first phase of Pike &amp; Rose in Rockville Maryland is also progressing on time and on budget.
At present 85% of the total retail rent pro forma[ph] and 90% of the retail space has been committed under either a fully-executed lease or a heavily-negotiated letter of intent.
In addition to the iPic Theater the only one of its kind in Metro D.C.
merchandising will include respected club operator Sport and Health restaurants like Del Frisco's Grille Stella Rosa M Street Kitchen retailers like Gap Gap Kids City Sports and The Pink Palm.
Now the economics of this first phase at Pike &amp; Rose are going to rest with the success of the residential building and not the retail and so we won't have a real handle on that until we start marketing the apartments next spring.
But the fact that the personality of this destination which is formed by the ground floor retail experience has started out so positively is extremely encouraging.
It bodes very well for future capital allocation decisions here with respect to future phases.
And in that regard we're feverishly working on putting together a phase two plan for a continuation of the street that we are building in phase one.
Capital estimates are still rough but would probably be in the $200 million range.
We would hope to be able to announce a thoroughly vetted plan at some point in the first half of 2014 At Assembly Row in Somerville I surely hope that the Investor Day and our webcast got you a whole lot more comfortable with our vision and execution of this one-of-a-kind initiative.
We continue to convert retailer interest into LOIs and LOIs into signed leases.
We currently have 77% of the retail rent pro forma[ph] and 83% of the retail space committed under either a fully-executed lease or a heavily-negotiated LOI.
We're moving toward our initial opening of 3 of the first 4 buildings in the early summer of 2014 with the fourth building the office over retail building started later scheduled to open just a few months after that.
As with Pike &amp; Rose Assembly remains on time and on budget.
And one more piece of Assembly news we purchased the 12 acres immediately adjacent to our Assembly Row site known by most of you as the IKEA parcel for $18 million last month.
We closed on that parcel without a completely wrapped up plan for the site but with a number of development alternatives that would be additive to value both on a stand-alone basis and also for the rest of Assembly Row and Assembly Row marketplace projects.
In what is our preferred alternatives we continue to make progress on work with a potential office tenant on the finalization of a lease and a development structure.
We're not there yet but progress has been steady and we remain committed to seeing it through.
These in-progress developments along with what will more than likely be future phases and that leverage the initial phases not unlike Santana Row not unlike the Bethesda Row not unlike Plaza El Segundo along with our regular stream of redevelopment opportunities are really quite extraordinary.
They're really happening.
And when added to what we believe to be the best shopping center portfolio in the business gives investors a transparent window and likelihood of real value-enhancing growth that is just second to no one.
It's not years and years away it's happening now.
That's it for my prepared comments this morning.
Let me now turn it over to Jim to talk about our financial results and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Don and good post-Halloween morning everyone.
As Don mentioned I'm going to cover our results in a bit more detail review the balance sheet and provide details on our guidance for the remainder of 2013 as well as 2014.
Turning to the quarter we reported $111.6 million of property operating income an increase of $7.2 million or 6.9% over the prior year quarter excluding a $6 million Genuardi's term fee.
Our same-center growth of 5.7% or 4.9% including redevelopment drove most of this increase which was achieved importantly despite relatively stable occupancy around 95%.
Again as we discussed at our Investor Day at Assembly Row our portfolio continues to drive growth from rollover and contractual rent increases not just occupancy.
Year-to-date our average rollover on a cash basis has been 18%.
That level rivals the growth that this portfolio generated during the pre-recession peak in the mid-2000s.
Importantly this well-located real estate outperforms not only during the downturn but with hard work from the leasing team and our operations team it continues to surprise even us as we achieve higher and higher rents per foot with leases this quarter in fact signed at $39.12 per square foot.
As you consider the growth that remains embedded in this portfolio consider that the average rent signed over the almost 4-year period since 2010 in other words post-recovery of $30.60 significantly exceeds the in-place average rent today of $24.39.
Compare that performance as we did at our Investor Day to any other shopping center portfolio and you'll see that it is without peer.
Another comment I'd like to make on same-store NOI is that it includes 97% of our portfolio 97%.
In other words it's truly predictive of what's happening in the portfolio and the company overall.
Green Street recently wrote in its [indiscernible] piece if you exclude 10% or 15% or 25% the comparability of a same-store NOI metric truly is neutered.
Additionally as we've said in the past our rollover growth statistics represent 100% of our leasing activity on comparable space.
That's important to consider.
Another contributor to our overall POI growth were our acquisitions of course of East Bay Bridge and Darien.
And we can report that we are pleased with the overall performance of both assets relative to our initial underwriting.
Looking at marketing expenses they increased during the quarter by about $300 000 as we ramp up for the openings of Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose and we also had about $300 000 less in POI from the sales Forest Hills.
G&amp;A expense declined year-over-year associated as Don mentioned mostly with the CFO transition offset by other personnel costs.
We expect G&amp;A for the year to be approximately $30 million before considering the impact of any acquisitions that we may complete.
Interest expense declined by $2.5 million in the quarter due to reduced rates as we continue to benefit from our attractive refinancing earlier in the year offset by a slightly higher balance as we've carried excess proceeds of cash during the quarter.
Even with this incremental drag of cash and marketing we generated a record quarter in terms of FFO at $1.16 per share an increase of 9.4% over the prior year when you exclude the Genuardi's term fee and the impact of the CFO transition.
Now turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $128 million of cash and nothing drawn under our $600 million line of credit.
Overall our leverage remains low at 24% net debt-to-market cap 5.2x net debt-to-EBITDA and 3.4x fixed-charge coverage.
Importantly as some of you have noted we have no floating-rate debt and our maturities over the next 2 years from a coupon standpoint average close to 7% which presents an opportunity even in this volatile interest rate environment for continued accretion.
Again this balance sheet strength and flexibility is important as we will deliver approximately $315 million of mixed-use value creation at Santana Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose over the next 4 quarters.
During the quarter we also realized $34 million in asset sale proceeds at an average cap rate below 5% and raised approximately $35 million of sales -- in sales of our shares under our ATM program.
Turning to our outlook for the balance of 2013.
We have increased our guidance range to $4.60 to $4.61 to reflect the continued operating strength of the core portfolio.
We expect our full year same-store growth to be in the 4.5% range and also expect some offset from increased marketing and other expenses as we ramp up our efforts at Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose.
In addition we will continue to have a bit of drag as we talked about in prior quarters as mid-Pike comes offline and we'll also have some drag in the quarter as Building 8B grand opens in November.
We are quite pleased with our leasing progress at 8B with the initial leasing of 48 of 78 available units in that building and rents per foot that meet or exceed our pro forma rent originally underwritten.
Let me pause for a moment here and again emphasize the point Don made that in that asset alone exists $75 million or so of value creation given that we're delivering it at an 8 and a market cap rate environment in the 4s.
For those of you attending NAREIT in 2 weeks I invite you to swing by Santana and check out just how well Jeff Berkes and the West Coast team has executed this apartment project.
It surely would be the envy of any of our multifamily peers.
Finally on 2013 guidance I should note that it does not include the impact of any potential costs associated with acquisitions that may be completed in the balance or any prepayment premiums associated with early refinance of any upcoming maturities should the debt markets prove opportunistic.
Again the weighted average interest rate for our 2014 maturities is 6.7% which in and of itself is an opportunity.
Now looking forward to 2014 we are delivering a lot of value creation.
In addition to the $75 million of Misora apartments at Santana Row which we'll be destabilizing during 2014 we will grand open the retail space in Buildings 11 and 12 at Pike &amp; Rose in the third quarter with office coming on in 2015 for a total delivery of $150 million.
And we expect to grand open Assembly Row in the summer of 2014 with an approximate cost of $150 million with the office in Building 2 delivering in 2015.
That's $375 million of deliveries over the next 4 quarters.
And important for everyone to consider the significant amount of POI that will be delivered by these assets as they stabilize.
In addition our pipeline continues to grow as we emphasized at our Investor Day at Assembly.
We've added an additional $94 million of new redevelopments this quarter including The Pointe at a weighted-average expected return of 9%.
Again all of this value creation activity will be supported by the continued strength in our core portfolio which we expect will produce same-store growth including redevelopment in the 4% to 4.5% range for 2014.
We expect occupancy again to remain relatively stable during the year with some rollovers and expect continued strength in tenant performance.
Let me talk a little bit about our FFO guidance.
As disclosed in our supplement we expect FFO in 2014 to be in the range of $4.84 to $4.92 or an increase of over 6% at the midpoint.
As discussed with some of you what's particularly impressive is that this range reflects almost $0.15 of onetime drag associated with the delivery of all that development including $0.04 to $0.05 per share of upfront marketing costs as we grand open Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose and build upon existing shopping practices and consumer awareness; 5% to 6% (sic) [$0.05 to $0.06] per share of drag related to the multi-family lease up of Misora at Santana and Building 12 at Pike &amp; Rose.
Again this reflects that we'll be incurring full interest and operating costs as we open these apartments and move towards stabilized NOI.
But make no doubt that value creation is there upon opening.
$0.01 to $0.02 will be incurred next year as we finish demolition of Mid-Pike Plaza.
We also will not have $0.01 to $0.02 of percentage rent that we fully expect to realize at Assembly Row after a year of operation.
And finally we'll be losing almost $2 million of POI as we take the rest of Mid-Pike Plaza out of service in the first quarter of '14.
As you think about that drag let me pause to make a very important point.
If we were not investing in this value creation that upon stabilization will contribute $35 million to $40 million of POI our year-over-year FFO growth would approach 10%.
Looking forward we again expect G&amp;A to remain consistent with 2013 in the $30 million range importantly as we've already made the investments in our platform over the last few years to effectively execute the delivery of all this value creation.
From a sources and uses standpoint we expect to invest approximately $250 million to $300 million in development and redevelopment capital in 2014 and have approximately $300 million in debt maturities again at a weighted average rate of 6.7%.
As has been the case this year we expect to match fund these activities with a mix of cash-on-hand cash from operations senior note issuances and moderate issuance of equity under our ATM.
As always we will focus on maintaining maximum flexibility even at the cost of near-term accretion ensuring our credit metrics remain strong and our flexibility preserved.
Finally as always our guidance for 2014 does not include the impact any acquisitions or prepayment of premium associated with opportunistic early refinancing.
In closing allow me to comment that our current plan provides us unparalleled visibility on growth not just for next year but for the next several years as we overcome the drag associated with the early ramp and the deliveries of our development.
Again as we outlined in our Assembly Row event our current pipeline will deliver between $35 million to $40 million of NOI as it stabilizes almost 8% of our existing total POI.
And there's much more opportunity to come from these assets that we own and control today and as we demonstrated at the Assembly.
In an environment where most shopping center portfolios are now hitting peak occupancy the performance of our core the growth that is embedded in existing rents the continued strong rollover and the value creation from our development and redevelopment pipeline is truly without peer.
All pistons are firing on our strategic plans and more than double the NOI of this company with very little external growth over the next 10 years supported by one of the strongest balance sheets in this sector.
With that operator we'd like to turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On 2014 guidance -- Jim I just apologize I missed this in your remarks.
But concerning that guidance did you provide the core NOI growth that underlies it? I might have missed that.
I did.
We expect that to be in the 4% to 4.5% range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just moving around I guess on the East Coast the IKEA land development I know you didn't have much to add there.
There's certainly been a lot of speculation around the path you might take.
I'm curious just to build on your remarks that you made at the Analyst Day about some work you guys might be doing in the office front what's your preference there I guess in terms of an outcome? I mean do you guys look at that and think you'd rather sell or ground lease that land to someone who would construct their own building? Or would you opt to be a developer? I'm just trying to understand how you guys are weighing the return prospects on that site versus the capital commitment that you have to that zip code? Yes that's fair Jeff.
The IKEA land and what happens on that IKEA land as you know we're looking at a couple of things and one is a sizable office deal.
And as we work through the structure I guess if we had our way that would be more somebody else's capital primarily.
The ability to establish that piece of land and effectively the whole assembly area as an office location would be huge to the future value creation of the rest of Assembly.
I don't really think we need to be putting a lot of our capital to work to accomplish that.
So that's our preference and I'll give the same caveat that I wrote[ph] gives us to the extent the deal makes an awful lot of sense to put our capital out we'll certainly do that.
But my preference would be to structure it with somebody else's capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's helpful.
And I guess sticking with the development stuff on The Pointe.
Can you give us some color on the expansion there? How's leasing progressing? And what sort of initial rents I guess you're expecting for the retail and the office that's baked into that 8% ROI? Yes.
I love to talk about The Pointe.
I think Jeff is on the call from California.
If you are Jeff can you handle that? That will be great.
Yes sure.
Let me dial you back a little bit on The Pointe and then I'll get to your question.
But as you might remember when we bought Plaza El Segundo we purchased what is the bulk of The Pointe site an 8-acre piece of land right at the hard corner of Rosecrans and Sepulveda.
And that 8-acre site came with 70 000 square feet of entitlements.
We also acquired when we acquired PES the rights to exercise options on a couple of pieces of adjacent land.
We've exercised one of those options.
We're in the process of exercising another.
And we also acquired a fourth piece of land that we didn't have tied up 2 years ago when we bought PES.
So what we've done obviously since we bought PES is gone ahead and assemble that piece of land and taking it through the entitlement process and expanded the entitlement from 70 000 feet to 115 000 square feet.
And as Don said in his prepared remarks we are now fully entitled and we're in the process of wrapping up our pricing and GMP construction contract negotiation and hope to have that done soon and be underway in earnest here shortly.
So what we're delivering to the market if you will is 115 000 square feet 25 000 square feet of second-floor office space and 90 000 square feet of ground-floor space that's composed or comprised of 65 000 square feet of retail space and 25 000 square feet of restaurant space.
We've -- a couple of things that we kind of know and understand about that location that have proven out since we first got into the deal a couple of years ago are one there is no great gathering place to shop and eat right now in the South Bay.
I mean obviously the beach is great but parking at the beach and shopping and dining at beach are kind of difficult right? So there's definitely a void in the market for a great place.
And when you step back and look at the retail distribution in L.A.
and Orange County there's a lot of lifestyle retail and other strong retail in Beverly Hills in Santa Monica but as you get to South there's not another node until you go all the way down to Costa Mesa Fashion Island that kind of thing right? So there's definitely a hole in the market and a void.
And we know that because we live out here.
And we know that because we talk to the retailers and restaurants that are dying for better space in this market.
And we see how successful those tenants can be in the collection portion of our Plaza El Segundo property where we've got 50 000 square feet of lifestyle where tenants do really really well.
So the product we're delivering is designed to fill both of those voids.
We're going to have a great plaza between the 4 buildings we're building where people can hang out and have a cup of coffee glass of wine sit outside and dine all that kind of stuff and we're delivering a ton of parking.
One of the offices is use will have a 7:1 000 parking ratio at the property.
And there's been consistent and strong demand from both the retailers and restaurants since we've got into this a couple of years ago.
We've got leases signed right now and several deep in the negotiations -- several leases deep in negotiations that we hope to have signed shortly.
The rents are impressive.
I really don't want quote rents on this call we can talk about that one-on-one if you want.
But they're very strong.
And that's because there's a hole in the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just last question actually.
Just on TIs the last few quarters your new lease and renewal lease TIs particularly new leases have been running in the call it 40s on average.
Is that sort of a run rate we should be thinking about going forward? Or this has more to do with some special projects that are flowing in there? It's a couple of things.
There's absolutely a trend by the way in our business of -- especially the national tenants trying to take advantage of our lower cost of capital and looking for money from landlords.
That's not just Federal that's anybody.
And I will tell you certainly to the extent it's -- not the comparable stuff to the extent it's the new stuff that's all included obviously in our development yields where the number to be[ph].
In terms of the normal day-to-day stuff you are seeing -- I mean when I look at it I mean we're at $20 a foot or so this quarter on TIs.
And that's probably pretty representative of what it's going to be going forward yes.
Our next question comes from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Couple of quick things.
First of all if we're looking at the leasing spreads the new spreads as well as the renewal over the past couple of quarters they've widened out accelerated.
And I was just wondering as you look to 2014 what's the visibility on those higher levels being sticky? I think they will be.
But I got to tell you this is still a small company.
It's still a 20-million-square-foot portfolio that's going to turn 1.2 million 1.3 million 1.4 million feet per year and so a few deals impact that.
It just makes it -- it makes it more lumpy.
I can absolutely tell you Mike that as we sit back and we look and I think we did a pretty good job at this up at Assembly we kind of showed you that the in-place rents of this company are $24 or $25 something like that overall and then that the deals we've been doing have been in the 30s relatively consistently I think very consistently.
So the -- there's no question that the -- that's a 30% increase in mark-to-market if you use that as a surrogate for mark-to-market.
And we expect that to be sticky as it continues.
But that does not mean that every 3 months when we report results that there won't be a deal or 2 or 3 that bring down that trend but that's the overall trend that we're very comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Jim when you're talking about guidance not for 2014 but for the balance of this year it seems like you went out your way to talk about how no acquisition costs are in there.
Are you expecting anything to close? Or is there a good shot anything can close before year end? There is and we're hoping Christmas comes early this year.
We have Michael Bilerman from Citi online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Jim sticking with you just on balance sheet and as it relates to guidance you did talk about $300 million almost 7% debt rolling next year.
I think the bonds mature in August and I guess the secured debt throughout the year.
You also talked about potentially hitting the markets early.
Obviously depending on when you refi that debt would have a material impact to next year's numbers.
So I'm just curious what have you embedded for accretion for refinancing in your 2014 estimate? Yes it's a great question.
And we've looked at a couple of scenarios.
And as part of what goes into the range Mike in terms of that timing and the benefit could be anywhere from $0.04 to over $0.05 depending on when we execute and the quality of that execution.
So we're obviously looking at the markets closely and really trying to ensure that when we do go in we're being as opportunistic as possible.
But when you think about that $0.10 range obviously there are different scenarios at the low end of the range versus the high end of the range.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Right.
Right but I assumed the earlier you execute the bonds the lower the FFO for next year is going to be? The lower the interest expense will be.
Correct.
Just to be clear I mean we absolutely intend to the extent the markets are favorable to us to take 2014's debt out this year.
We absolutely intend to do that whether we're able to get there or not.
If that's the case 2014 would benefit from the lower interest expense for the entire year though we have the prepayment costs this year.
That's what...
Research Division</strong> So you would actually take the bonds out and pay a prepayment penalty and it's effectively that way? If rates are where they are today or they actually get a little bit better then the answer is yes.
Research Division</strong> And then you talked about the $0.15 drag.
I'm just curious on the $0.10 with all the marketing expenses that you talked about between Assembly and the market -- the marketing expenses and ramping up in Santana you're talking about a $0.10 drag for the year.
When does that hit its peak during the year and how much of that spills over 2015? And I'm just trying to put together effectively a 2-year sort of ramp as we start to think about what FFO could be in '15 and sort of the quarterly impacts during the year.
Because I assume this is not stuff that's all going to be even during the year in terms almost $7 million of drag.
That's very very very astute Mike.
And the way you can look at it basically is growing from the first quarter through the second quarter.
The second quarter will be high.
The third quarter will be high.
And then the fourth quarter coming off a little bit.
Yes there will be some of those costs that continued into 2015.
But if you ran a bell curve and you peaked at somewhere in the May June July August September timetable you'd be in good shape I think.
And Mike just to clarify that and thanks for drilling in on it that $0.04 to $0.05 of marketing relates really to initial-phase marketing as we open up these 2 large mixed-use projects that we don't expect to incur on an ongoing basis.
As Don said a lot of that will be coming in the second and third quarter.
And then the other element of that $0.10 that you referred to is really just the lease-up drag if you will at the multi-family units we're delivering where we're going to be incurring full operating costs and no longer capitalizing interest as we lease those apartment units up.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So as we think to 2015 the growth likely is significantly in excess of the 6% in '14 all else being equal? That's right.
But we've also got other potential development opportunities that we may be delivering or beginning and delivering to 2015.
So a little bit hard to provide a lot visibility on the absolute level of growth '14 to '15.
But you're on the important point which is the value creation that's underway today that NOI will be coming on to the company in 2014 and '15.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering when you look at your portfolio in either on one side street retail versus maybe suburban shopping centers what has been giving you the strongest internal same-store growth? Craig it's a very fair question.
Let me just take this question and make it look fuller for a second.
A lot of people would say "Oh gosh if you believe so much is the street retail and the mix of your stuff why wouldn't that be everything that you did?" Because in -- absolutely our strongest growth does come from properties like Bethesda but it also comes from the Congressional Plazas and the Barracks Row larger necessity-based centers too.
The reality is Craig the necessity-based stuff that we have because of locations it's very very good.
And it's really really important.
I mean we talked about that growing at 3% to 3.5%.
That's pretty darn strong in terms of growth.
We want that here.
The ability to supplement it with these projects that we're talking about and including street retail the street retail in the portfolio that has kind of a longer-term better growth prospects to it is kind of like icing on the cake.
So I would say that with respect to the street retail stuff that we've had for a long time we've got some pretty darn good growth inherent in there.
The idea of going out and buying street retail at 4% and having some of those leases be very very flat is a whole -- is not particularly appealing.
So like everything else whether it's necessity-based or street retail the devil is in the details in terms of the lease terms.
We've got the -- we've got some strong growth in our existing street retail larger generally than necessity-based stuff.
But necessity-based stuff is pretty good too.
Research Division</strong> And I was just wondering if the suburban stuff might have the greater optionality or the greater opportunity for redevelopment and maybe a little more difficult to do with street retail or is that not the case? I don't know.
It really gets down to the -- I hate to make a general comment like that because it really does depend on the particular piece of land.
I will say this larger shopping centers have much more flexibility.
I certainly would prefer whether it's a suburban shopping center in Wynnewood Pennsylvania or a street retail project to the extent it's a bigger piece of land there's more stuff that winds up happening to it.
And the thing that hurts that the most are the big national tenants that have lots of rights to their leases to restrict development.
That's the -- that's probably the single biggest thing that creates those kinds of issues.
They require money to get the -- to get what they -- to get done what you want done and that makes the deals harder to make economically.
Our next question comes from Jason White from Green Street.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on your re-leasing spread question from earlier.
If you look at the trend it's obviously been very positive and wondering what part of that is just kind of organic rent growth versus leases that may have been signed at the trough that were depressed rents that are just starting to roll now and what you kind of expect going forward? Hey Chris what do you think about that? Yes I would just say that I believe a lot of that is organic growth.
We've not really seen a lot of our leases from the trough rolling over at this point.
So I -- my general comment to that would be is that we're seeing a lot of organic growth and we push really hard on our core portfolio.
The answer that Don just gave when I think about our core portfolio that was for some assets in Huntington New York some stuff in Gaithersburg Maryland where we're going to be able to push some really exciting things as well that will come through in our numbers in our core portfolio.
We focused very hard on our organic growth and I think it will be a couple of years before we see the trough stuff come to the forefront that we can take advantage of.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So do you think that your spreads woulds -- might be increasing by the time you get to those trough rents rolling? I'd rather have Don...
I hope so.
I hope so Jason.
I hope so Jason.
But that's again going to come down to the same answer I gave before with respect to the mark-to-market on the entire portfolio and the general trend which is very positive but any particular quarter could surprise you negatively.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay then one more question on your -- you have a breakout page of future opportunities for expansion and development.
I was wondering if there's any opportunity that stand out that maybe a little more near term  that have a lot of opportunity for you guys that we really haven't gotten a lot of detail on in the past? Are you're looking for extra value that you can find for the model Jason? Is that what you're saying? I mean Jason the first thing -- I'll ask Don to comment on a couple of things but the first thing I'll highlight is in this quarter we added an additional $94 million of redevelopment including The Pointe at about 9% return.
And I think generally what we're pleased with is that our strategic plan for each and every asset focuses on how over time we can continue to maximize value whether it's moving an anchor pad site or adding multi-family like we did at Chelsea.
So we don't put things on this page that we don't think are going to be actionable difficult to comment on the timing of any of the ones in particular.
Dawn I don't know if you want to add anything to that? There are a couple Jason that given where we are in the process of talking to tenants and in the entitlement process which is always a time-consuming thing that we can't really control I would expect certainly a few of these to be hitting the schedules in execution certainly during 2014.
Which ones or how many? Unfortunately those are to be determined a little bit more by some of the jurisdictions we're working with and how quickly we can get them to move.
Our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions here.
First Jim going back to the debt you guys have indicated that you want to take out next year's maturities this year if you can.
Does that apply both to the secured and the unsecured or is one sort of harder or more costly to -- I mean I'm assuming the mortgage is probably the one that's harder to deal with because that's a direct negotiation whereas the bonds have make-wholes that are pretty easy whether you want to do them or not if they're cost-effective.
So just sort of curious...
I wish the mortgage were a negotiation.
The lender there can expect us to basically prepay all the interest if we go to do that early.
Given the rate on that mortgage at 7.5% the earliest that we can repay without penalty is in the May June time frame.
Then we do have the 590 notes that I believe mature in the August September time frame that would be subject to a call with a make-whole.
So there's really not a lot of negotiation with it.
It's really more driven by our view of the market at a particular time and the execution we think will be available to us.
So Alex we would be sitting with cash on the balance sheet in other words.
We would for a period of time.
It takes 30 days to call the notes.
And typically there's a 30-day notification period under the mortgages.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then as for the JV they are 2 small mortgages that come due next year.
Do these -- coming due for Plaza Mercado and Atlantic Plaza.
For these coming due does that present an opportunity to revisit this JV as far as buying out the partner or -- I mean you guys announced the JV what almost 10 years ago but not really much has happened.
So does this present a time to maybe liquidate or buyout or do something with it with these -- with the debt coming due? It doesn't enhance the ability to get out of the JV.
Frankly we've got a great relationship with Clarion and don't see the need to.
The properties are performing well.
They're very happy with where we are.
And at the appropriate time one of us will buy out the other.
There's pretty much no doubt about that.
We're not -- if we want to force something now we could force something now.
We don't need the mortgage coming due and make that happen.
We just don't see the need to do that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally Jim in the guidance it looks like the share count is up by 2 million.
Is this just ATM usage or is it sort of assuming some OP issuance for acquisitions? Or what's driving that? A little of both.
Actually no acquisitions.
Mainly ATM issuances over the course of the year.
Our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya.
Research Division</strong> Two quick things.
First of all I noticed again during the quarter you guys didn't really buy anything.
Just curious what the acquisition outlook looks like cap rates and how you're kind of thinking about that going forward? We've got some good things in the works Tayo that we're not really ready to talk about.
But from a cap rate perspective for high-quality core we really haven't seen any movement in those cap rates even with the treasuries being volatile.
In fact if anything some of the recent transactions that have been announced have surprised us with how low the cap rates have been including assets in Westport Connecticut and other things that we've looked at.
So -- but we feel good about the pipeline and the right deals take some time to work.
We hope to have something to announce in the not-too-distant future.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the office component of phase 1 of Assembly Row any update there? Beyond -- I'm sorry I was thinking about the IKEA parcel which I did talk about before.
On the building that we're building lots of interest and we're working through the process.
That building is behind because we started it later.
It's behind the other 3 buildings there.
But yes so we have a little bit more time to go do -- to get that done.
But good interest I don't have anything to report today though.
Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First on your debt that's coming due you said you want to take it out preferably this year for the 2014 maturities.
But with the make-whole provisions from an economic standpoint besides just making your GAAP interest expense look better what would the rationale be by paying the penalties and taking that bit out early? When you look at that debt and you look at the breakeven rate for it to be positive from an NPV perspective to take it out early you don't have to have much of a move in treasuries to have that make sense.
If you look at the 2 issues today it's only about 20- to 25-basis-point move in treasury to be NPV-neutral.
So again we want to be opportunistic as we were with our last debt issuance.
Hope to able to do it before the end of the year but we have flexibility to time that as appropriate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And should we expect a similar split between secured and unsecured or more towards unsecured? If you've seen what we've done really over the last several years we're moving to continue to pay off mortgages at every opportunity we can.
And our debt balance is largely unsecured and will only get more unsecured over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right and just last question.
I remember in one of your presentations you guys showed the occupancy costs at your centers versus traditional malls.
And given where your lease spreads are and where you're signing leases today how close especially for your better-quality centers are the occupancy costs signed at versus traditional malls? And how does that...
Yes that's a great question.
I -- and you're remembering a presentation I guess we it did a couple of years back and I still think it's true today is that effectively our occupancy costs which are overall in the portfolio not quite 9% effectively have a lot of room to go.
And I actually think -- I can't really talk about where you're comfortable on the mall side but certainly CAM and taxes and those other extras beyond rent are much higher in the closed mall than they are in our centers even our better centers.
And to us that gives us a competitive advantage as long as we can be comfortable that the sales will be close to the productivity at a mall.
That all still applies.
The only thing I think that's changed and I think it's changed for the better is I believe that retailers have gotten better in terms of their operations I believe they've gotten stronger in terms of their profitability and I believe that they can afford to pay a higher percentage of their costs in terms of rent and occupancy than they did say years ago just -- not that many years ago too.
Now they're not going to tell you that because it's a negotiation and all that.
But I think that bodes very very well for -- particularly for Federal and the types of centers that you're asking about which are somewhat comparative or comparable to malls? Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow up on that.
So has the actual occupancy cost -- can you maybe give -- provide some numbers if that's trended up over the past couple of years? Well I can't really -- you're just coming in and out.
I can't [indiscernible] I think the question is has the occupancy costs trended up over the last couple of years.
Sure.
I mean that probably -- yes so our occupancy cost have trended up probably 50 to 75 basis points.
They were in the low-8s.
They're probably at 9-or-so now.
And I think -- just coming back to the other point I think that retailers can pay more than 75 or 100 basis points more than they did a few years ago too.
So I think the general dynamic of the economics are better than they were.
Our next question comes from Samit Parikh from ISI.
Research Division</strong> It is Samit from ISI.
Just -- I know it's a little early here to talk about this.
But I think last week you got approvals from the county for phase two of Pike &amp; Rose.
And it -- from whatever I read it sounds like the approvals was for a much larger project than phase one.
I guess I'm just curious whatever you can tell us about what -- at this point what you're thinking about with that project and regarding how much of phase two do you think Federal will be doing themselves versus maybe selling land or entitlements to an office builder? Yes we're not at the point of a big office product -- project at all Samit.
The second phase I think I've given you some -- a number of about $200 million give or take.
It won't be a lot more or a lot less than that.
It'll be somewhere in that range for the next phase of Pike &amp; Rose.
And the primary thing to do next at Pike &amp; Rose is to build the street.
So while in the first phase the residential really will make or break the project the second phase the retail becomes much more important because it is that street environment that we need for future phases.
So yes the entitlements and our negotiations with the county have gone very very favorable and they include the ability to do a whole lot more over time but we do it in phases.
We do it in pieces and a $200 million next phase or somewhere in that range but if it's $250 million or $180 million or something like that we'll see -- will be primarily our capital.
If I can clarify one thing for you Samit the phase two that we got approved is probably larger than the phase two that we would be building next.
There were significantly more buildings that we got -- got approved just because of the development process.
No question.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then maybe just -- I know you sort of explained it in your Investor Day but maybe you could clarify it one more time for everyone.
Just the underwriting for the sort of 5% to 6% for fit -- for Assembly and you can correct me if I'm wrong doesn't really include anything in terms of percentage rent upside I believe.
And I guess just curious Don do you think? No I was going to ask what do you think can get you -- is there -- what type of realistic hurdles are there for upside to get closer to sort of a -- beyond the 5% to 6% up to the higher end of the original 5% to 7% that you had prior to this supplemental? As we laid out at the Investor Day and thanks for asking the question to me the rents that are underwritten that get us in that range are about 87% fixed minimum rent and we do have some percent of sales deals that make up the other 13%.
The -- almost all of the leases do have percentage rent factors.
It varies lease by lease so I can't really get into breakpoints as it relates to the project overall.
But certainly there's potential for upside as the location gets established and the tenants start realizing good sales levels.
So we certainly hope to see that upside from the project once it's open and running.
Yes let me just add to that Samit.
The answer is time as Jimmy just said.
But when -- you noticed that we took the 5% to 7% that was in the numbers down to 5% to 6% and I wanted to specifically address that.
That's simply because it will be 5% to 6% in this first phase in the first -- in the -- after it's all leased up in the first phase.
What -- we do certainly expect that first phase to be yielding 7% or more as the tenants -- as sales increase and that the destination itself becomes proven.
Like the first phase at Pike &amp; Rose there we think based on the demand we're seeing will be an announcement about a second phase of Assembly that does not have anything to do with the IKEA parcel as we've talked about there again to build that street and to create additional critical map.
Those are the things that have to happen to create the upside in the NOI.
It's exactly why I showed it in Bethesda in terms of what has happened by stage and by phase over the years.
It's exactly what has happened as we make every incremental investment in Santana.
And so that's what I expect to see here.
But when you look at the initial yield 5% to 6% is much more reasonable today than 5% to 7%.
Our next question comes from Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the leasing and the renewals for a bit here.
Just curious on the renewal volume that you did this quarter how much of that was option exercise versus end-of-lease sort of rollovers? I don't have it.
I'm not sure I could tell you.
We could probably do it offline.
I'm looking at Melissa to see if anybody's got anything and I'm seeing -- it's not options? Tell him it's straight out.
Yes so it's straight out renewals because option renewals wouldn't be in those numbers right? So it's all renewals Vince.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there much -- like on the -- obviously options would be a lower rollover I would think.
But just can you give us a sense of what the difference looks like? I don't know.
No.
No I mean I -- the option exercise to assume it would be lower not at all.
Not necessarily.
I mean they're just contractual rents that we've pre-negotiated.
So if you negotiate a 10-year deal with 1 5-year option you can bet 99.9% of the time that that option rate is going up.
It's not going back.
So we -- so just like Don used as the example the Best Buy option exercise that's a great example of it that we anticipated they wouldn't exercise because of where the number was but they did.
And there were no adjustment at all to that option rate and there was just a significant increase over what the prior rent was.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to get a sense of whether we should be thinking about those spreads differently between the options and the non-option exercise but okay.
I don't think you should Vince.
Think about them the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then I don't know if I missed this from earlier but it terms of the -- obviously a lot of development going on.
Just in terms of the overall spend that you expect in '14 what does that look like in terms of CapEx? We did talk about it.
It's somewhere between $250 million and $300 million.
Research Division</strong> $250 million to $300 million.
Okay and then I guess if I just think about the -- going back to the equity discussion about the ATM usage and sort of 2 million of additional shares that -- depending on how you get to the weighted average if it's ratably or whatnot it seems like most of that $250 million or $300 million is being paid for by -- via equity.
Is that...
No that's not right.
I mean we'll probably be somewhere between $150 million to $200 million of equity that may come off the ATM or alternatively we might do some asset sales.
It just depends on where the market is.
I mean as we think about our capital plan one thing to highlight here is that we are conservative as we look out.
We want to make sure that we're match funding and we're not levering up to do it.
I mean if we were rolling a lot of this stuff on to the line we'd be generating a hell of a lot more FFO growth.
So again as we look forward we're not locked into doing ATM issuances and that's part of the strength of the balance sheet.
But conservatively that's what we would expect to do.
Our last question comes from Chris Lucas from Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one Jim.
On the same-store NOI guidance for next year you guys have been pretty flat on the lease rate over the past x number of quarters now.
What's the composition of that same-store NOI growth for next year? Is there any bump coming from an occupancy pickup or is that all coming from rent spread? Very modest if any occupancy.
We do expect some rollover as I alluded to during the course of the year which will actually fluctuate our occupancy up and down quarter-to-quarter.
But we're not seeing effective occupancy if you will much above where we are today.
And to that point a part of -- that sort of optimum or peak occupancy reflected in part the fact that Chris and the team really are driving the rents on the inventory that we have.
So we're -- is it possible that we were to pick up additional occupancy during the course of the year? Perhaps.
But that's not something that we're anticipating.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So are you guys are running at peak occupancy now or what's going on with that number? Look 95.5% or so is what we -- where we believe peak occupancy is in this -- I'm not using the word peak I'm using the word optimal occupancy.
It may be able to get to 96%.
But generally we think we get what -- I saw recently the Tanger numbers are up in the 98s and stuff.
That's a -- I guess in that business that's possible to do.
In this business when we find that we're there we are leaving money on the table.
There is a balance between rates and occupancy just like there is in the hotel business and everything else Chris.
And so you really have to think about optimal occupancy somewhere between 95.5% to 96% for this portfolio.
It doesn't mean we can't get to 96.5% or something like that but I'm actually critical of that because I want to make sure we're really pushing the rents.
And that's on a long-term basis in my view is much more valuable than giving away space.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just so I'm clear on the definition here when you say occupancy you mean the actual physical occupancy or is that sort of the lease rate number you're talking about? I think the 2 of those come together.
Now at -- so the leased and physical in the ideal world are the same thing.
Obviously at any one time they can vary one way versus the other.
But I use that Chris interchangeably when I talk about 95.5% to 96%.
So I don't want you to think there's no room to go in occupancy.
There is room to go in occupancy and off of where we are.
It's just not anywhere near where our competitors think they can be because it's a different type of portfolio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- can you give us me a sense as to what the spread is right now between the leased and the occupied rate? Yes.
94.6% versus 95.3% lease.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that's 70 basis points.
Is that -- because it seems a little tight from a historical perspective but is that...
Not.
It's not really.
It's pretty much in line.
And again quarter-to-quarter it can fluctuate based on -- we can have a box rollover and bring down the occupied or go the other way on the lease.
But again we've been pretty stable from an occupancy standpoint over the last several quarters and I think really the point that we want to make here is that we're generating much if not all of this growth really through the rollover that we have.
And that's the components of the embedded rent growth the option exercises and the cash rollover growth.
Chris before you hang up I just wanted to give you some perspective.
I'm just looking at something that's pretty cool here.
In the fourth quarter of 2007 all right we were 96.7% leased; 95.4% occupied those were the high-water marks in terms of that.
Every other period of time over the last 10 years we were somewhere when you talk about the great days between 95.5% and 96%.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to Kristina Lennox for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to seeing you next week at NAREIT and have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Yolanda and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Kristina Lennox.
Ms.
Lennox you may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we could give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial conditions and results of operation.
These documents are available on our website at www.federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our first quarter 2014 results.
Don? Thanks Kristina and good morning everyone.
The 2014 first quarter was another very strong one for the trust with reported FFO per share of $1.21 an all-time quarterly record for us and 6% higher than last year's first quarter.
Those earnings are strong and were made possible because of continued strong tenant demand and disciplined execution of rent start dates despite a particularly nasty and extended winter season this year all the way up and down the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions.
Not only did FFO per share of $1.21 grow 6% but same-store growth came in at 2.9% when excluding redevelopment and 3.4% when including it despite a quarter in which gross snow removal costs were $5.5 million higher than last year and more than $9 million in total.
Those costs are reflected in rental expenses with a corresponding recoverable portion included in tenant recoveries.
Roughly 80% to 85% is expected to be recovered.
It was a crazy and long winter.
And the net impact of that excessive show cost was more than $0.01 per share hit to FFO and about 100 basis point hit to same-store growth.
I'm particularly pleased with these results given not only the weather but the marketing and other noise that is and will be part of our numbers all year long related to the big developments coming online this year.
Let's dig into the results a bit and start with leasing.
Leasing demand and productivity that built on last year's efforts was evident during 2014 first quarter where we completed 78 deals 71 of them for 328 000 square feet of comparable space at average rents of $31.84 18% more than the $27.01 per foot representing the last year of the former lease.
Both leases with new tenants and renewals of existing tenants were profitable and grew at 16% and 19% respectively.
This was really a continuation of the strength that we saw through much of 2013 and that sentiment and production feels as though it will continue in the next few quarters.
Though not necessarily in the high teens like 18% but strong nonetheless.
A few really good deals in the quarter in each of our major operating regions really drove the results including a CVS renewal at Wildwood Shopping Center in Bethesda a new Nordstrom Rack replacing Office Depot at Mercer Mall in New Jersey and some powerful small shop leasing at Westgate in San Jose California.
In any event a strong leasing quarter and an optimistic leasing forecast.
Now let's look at occupancy which on both on a percentage leased and physical occupancy basis remained very strong in the quarter at 95.6% and 94.7% respectively.
Both of those numbers are down a tick or 2 from year end which is not at all unusual in the first quarter but higher than last year's first quarter and in fact higher than in any first quarter since 2007 and 2008.
Those levels won't change very much this year in fact they'll probably go down a bit as we proactively re-tenant some anchor spaces for better long-term stability and profitability.
Let me move on now to the development pipeline and start with the good work being done at Assembly Row in Somerville Massachusetts.
First the planning and documentation with Partners HealthCare on the 12-acre former IKEA site is going extremely well and we hope to have fully-executed documents completed over the summer to allow for a planned construction start by Partners this fall.
In a piece of very good news the deal now contemplates development rights for 900 000 square feet of office space up from 700 000 making room for Partners' 4 700 plus employees moving in over several years beginning as early as 2016.
We continue to work through the accompanying retail plan on that site which we would own.
That investment is expected to include a service retail destination including a drug store a health club and additional food and service alternatives.
We're estimating something in the range of a $35 million investment and about 110 000 square feet but we'll report with more specificity on this piece and the entire Partners transaction once all the documentation is done.
On the other end of the Assembly site we're proud to report that 97% of the retail space in our Phase 1 development is committed.
That's 46 out of 51 outlet restaurant and entertainment tenants that will open beginning now with the AMC Theater and then throughout the summer in anticipation of a full lineup in the fall.
Leases executed in this first quarter included J.Crew PUMA Orbis Motherhood Maternity Aveda Salon and Sugar Heaven; while real estate committee approved-deals included Kenneth Cole Express Carter's Oshkosh and Francesca's.
The first residential move-ins have begun in AvalonBay's apartments and external construction on the block 2 office building is nearing completion.
We're getting close on some office leasing in that building and as I noted are virtually done with the retail lease in its base.
The future looks very bright for Assembly Row and I hope that we'll be talking about another phase in the not-too-distant future.
Let's come down to coast a bit to Rockville Maryland where Pike &amp; Rose is rapidly taking shape and where lease-up on the first residential buildings is well underway and has gotten off to a very good start.
Currently 50 of the 174 apartments in the first residential building called PerSei are leased at net effective rates -- rents slightly ahead of our expectations at this point.
This is particularly noteworthy since until recently the weather around here has been just awful and the site is full [Audio Gap] construction and frankly it feels very much like a construction site.
Lease-up will continue throughout the year and into next with the first move-ins expected this June and then transition into residential leasing for the second residential building.
That's the high rise tower called Pallas that will begin leasing up next spring.
On the retail side Phase 1 lease-up is nearly complete at 92% and most of the remainder of that lease-up is in the base of the 300-unit high-rise residential building which doesn't deliver until 2015.
To give you an idea of what the merchandising in that first phase will feel like consider that the iPic theater Tanzy restaurant and Sport &amp; Health health clubs will be above the ground level retail that will include tenants like Gap Gap Kids City Sports Francesca's Del Frisco's Grille Summer House ShopHouse and others well you get the idea.
And in terms of 80 000 feet of office in this first phase while I still can't report on a signed office lease at this point I can tell you that we're well down the road on lease documentation with a great credit for more than half of the available space in the project.
Given the way the first phase has been going we're anxious to figure out the next phase where we'll significantly lengthen the retail street and add to this vibrant and sophisticated environment that's so lacking in the Rockville area.
We're well underway to designing and pricing out the next phase which will approximate $200 million and we expect to announce it with greater specificity later this year.
Out on the West Coast internal and common area construction will be finished up at Misora in the next 60 to 90 days and leasing has been going extremely well.
At present 170 or more than 80% of the 212 apartments have been leased at rates that slightly exceed our expectations.
We expect to be stabilized in terms of both leasing and occupancy by the end of the year.
Similarly in Southern California construction on The Pointe is well underway and also on time and on budget.
We'll be featuring The Pointe as well as future phases of our entire development and redevelopment pipeline at the ICSC convention in Las Vegas in a couple of weeks.
I think I'll stop there in terms of my prepared remarks and just want to express -- end by expressing my enthusiasm for both our continued strong core results quarter-after-quarter as well as the inevitable delivery of some of the finest retail and mixed-use products available anywhere.
I look forward to walking it with many of you later in the year and talking about it at NAREIT in June and elsewhere.
Now let me turn it over to Jim Taylor for his remarks before we open the lines up to your questions in a few minutes.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
This quarter represented another record for the Trust in terms of total revenue POI and FFO per share.
Even with relatively stable occupancy the drag of snow and increased expense associated with bringing our development projects online our portfolio continued to deliver impressive bottom line growth both on a year-over-year and a sequential basis.
And as Don importantly highlighted our strong leasing rollover continues to set us up well for the intermediate term.
That core performance taken with the successful integration of The Grove and Brook 35 acquisitions the additional redevelopment activity at East Bay Bridge Flourtown and Hollywood and the substantial progress that Don highlighted this quarter towards the successful delivery of 2 important drivers of future growth Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly continue the momentum of our balanced business plan.
Now turning to the details.
Rental income increased $13.6 million or approximately 9% over the prior year quarter.
Most of this or $9.7 million was attributable to the same-center growth including redevelopment and the successful integration of The Grove and Brook 35 as well as Darien.
The balance of the increase is attributable to higher snow recoveries due to the polar vortex impact in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic.
Other property income which includes term fees was essentially flat year-over-year.
Looking at rental expenses and POI margin we saw an increase of $7.6 million approximately $5.1 million of which was snow.
Adjusted for snow our POI margin remained stable at 70%.
As Don highlighted in his remarks when you look at our same-center portfolio which represents 96% of our overall property operating income our same-center growth in POI would've been 100 basis points higher if you adjust for snow.
I think we've said enough about snow but the bottom line is that the performance of the core portfolio and the acquisitions that we made continue to be strong even with relatively stable occupancy.
And importantly our leasing rollover continues to demonstrate strong forward growth as those tenants will take occupancy over the next several quarters.
Moving down we also maintained strict control on G&amp;A which remains flat when you adjust for the transfer taxes and other costs associated with the closing of The Grove and Brook 35.
Interest expense declined $4.3 million due primarily to the overall lower borrowing rate that we achieved through last year's refinancings which reduced our weighted average rate from 5.5% to 4.8% while substantially increasing our weighted average maturity.
Bottom line total FFO increased 10.4% to $81.8 million for the quarter and FFO per share increased 6.1% to $1.21 per share as we continue to match fund our development activity with an appropriate balance of long-term debt and equity issued under our ATM.
Again all of this with an eye towards producing stable consistent long-term earnings growth with maximum flexibility given volatility that can happen from time-to-time in the capital markets.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the quarter we accessed the ATM for $50 million at a weighted average share price of $111.35.
In connection with the acquisitions of The Grove and Brook 35 we issued $65 million of OP units and also assumed $68 million of secured debt.
We ended the quarter with $76 million of cash and nothing drawn on our $600 million revolver leaving us plenty of capacitive and flexibility to fund the balance of our expected development spend this year of approximately $250 million.
Our debt to market cap was 24% and debt-to-EBITDA a strong 5.4x.
From an acquisition pipeline perspective we remain very active and are negotiating a few opportunities on an off-market basis.
While we cannot handicap which if any of these situations will occur I would be disappointed if we did not close some of them.
They are high-quality assets that would fit well with our portfolio.
We are also evaluating a few marketed opportunities but have observed significant cap rate compression for those deals.
Now turning to outlook.
We reaffirm our guidance range of $4.86 to $4.93 a share.
As discussed on our last call we expect our occupancy to dip slightly during 2014 as we roll larger anchor spaces such as of the OfficeMax and Pacific Sales at East Bay Bridge the Loehmann's spaces at Friendship and Crow Canyon Kohl's at Melville Staples at Quince Orchard Bally's at Governor and others.
Our leasing team has done a phenomenal job of re-tenanting these spaces and driving better long-term deals for the Trust.
In the current year this rollover and associated downtime as we replace these tenants will cause some drag on our same-store numbers particularly in the second and third quarters.
However the strength of the core will continue to be the largest driver of our growth.
On a same-store basis including redevelopment we still expect our NOI growth for the year to approach 4% even this with the rollover drag and the impact of snow this quarter.
On an FFO basis we expect our growth to be between 6% to 7% for the year which again is truly remarkable as we will incur approximately $0.13 to $0.15 of bottom line drag in 2014 associated with the marketing demolition costs and multifamily lease-up that we have discussed in prior quarters.
This year from a timing perspective we expect to deliver approximately $350 million of development and redevelopment.
We are on time and on budget.
As Don highlighted those deliveries include our $75 million investment in Misora; buildings 11 and 12 at Pike &amp; Rose which represent approximately $125 million of investment we'll open in phases this year; Phase 1 retail of Assembly Row which represents approximately $150 million of investment with the office delivering later in 2015.
As Don highlighted in his remarks those projects are substantially leased and we'll bring us significant value both in the near term as well as over time.
We couldn't be more pleased with the execution of our operations leasing and development teams upon our balanced business plan which sets us up for many years of continued growth.
We look forward to a productive leasing conference at ICSC in just a few weeks and further to seeing many of you in early June at NAREIT.
With that operator I'd like to turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Craig Schmidt.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could describe the marketing efforts that you're going to pursue for the opening of Phase 1 at Assembly Row.
And I know you've done some events there just to increase awareness have you measured that awareness by the Boston consumer? Yes Craig let me start and see if anybody wants to add on.
The one thing that we decided last year is that we were not going to do a one big blowout party from a marketing perspective a one big grand opening here.
And that ties to the type of center this is.
We're starting the 2 big entertainment anchors the theater is already open by the way.
And Legoland is opening shortly a couple of weeks they'll be there.
And then throughout the summer time there is a long list of tenants that open up with the final tenants in that first phase opening up in the fall.
So our marketing kind of mirrors that.
It takes us through -- it takes events all the way through.
If you remember we spent a lot of time and money bringing events to the area including last year's show whatever it was called...
Riverfest in Cavalia.
Cavalia last year to get people accustomed with the area.
What we're finding is great receptions.
I'd be -- I'm really happy that not only the local community but a broader draw is finding their way into what is now infrastructure that is built and real streets it's not fake.
There's a reason to drive by them these are commuter streets now.
And so the Riverfest and the other marketing events that we've been throwing have been getting great acceptance from the community which all kind of sets us up pretty well to a strong fall.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on a really big picture basis how much more is there to do at Santana Row? On a really big picture basis lots.
And here's what I mean by that.
It's not only the end of the street which will be office product and will be retail product but you know there's additional residential product on the existing site.
But then we've got tied up and I think Jeff Berkes is on the phone we've got tied up 12 acres directly adjacent that's a big project.
And whether we're able to get that entitled and done and built or not we'll see but it's structured in a pretty low risk way for us in that it's a lease and in fact it's not even ours if we don't want it to be if we don't get it entitled which is just critical.
But we could be talking about an incremental $400 million $500 million to put on and around Santana very carefully over the next 5 7 years.
Our next question is from Andrew Schaffer.
Can you talk about the percentage of restaurants in your portfolio today versus your historic average and have you seen a material shift in leasing toward restaurants? Yes I've talked about this before and it ties into our strategy and what we kind of believe in.
And we do clearly use restaurants as an anchor in our portfolio.
Today if you broadly define restaurants to include the Starbucks of the world and anything that effectively is food-driven x the supermarkets our number is something like 12%.
A little bit higher about 15%.
15% and that's a very broad definition of restaurants.
Now specifically when you think of a restaurant as a draw or a group of restaurants on a draw that's a much smaller number more like 7% or 8%.
But we do that purposely and frankly I think we've gotten pretty good at identifying the right restaurants the right operators the right mix if you will of all of them.
And we consider that in that restaurant business we expect to lose 2 out of 10 if you will before those leases are up and we figure that into our underwriting.
So that's how we think about that business.
It's a very important anchor to us and it's actually not a subsidized anchor which is my favorite part of it as opposed to a department store to a mall business or even a grocery store to our business.
And then in regards to Somerville can you break out the demand from full-price tenants versus outlet tenants? We're just doing outlet tenants so there's really not a demand...
At Assembly specifically.
At Assembly Row yes if that is your question.
It is an outlet.
The soft goods tenants that we will have in Assembly Row are outlet tenants so they will not be full priced we have drawn the line on that.
Was that your question? Yes.
Our next question is from Paul Morgan.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned for the marketed deals that you've been looking on the acquisition market that you've seen cap rate compression.
I mean cap rates it's not exactly -- cap rates have never been really high for your types of products I was just -- maybe see if you could provide a little bit of color there where -- how much have you seen over the past 6 months or so and what kind of numbers are you talking about? Well Jeff you can certainly chip in here but Paul where we may have seen some deals getting close to 5 or around 5 we're now seeing deals clearly in the 4s and in some instances.
The low 4s for kind of core in-fill retail properties.
So over the last I'd say 6 to 12 months we've seen further compression.
Yes Paul I agree with Jim.
Definitely for the better stuff on the West Coast that's fully marketed and institutional quality piercing 5 is where things have headed and seem to be staying for a bit.
Research Division</strong> And then just a couple things on Santana.
I mean a little bit bigger picture I guess as you think about the future phases the office and then especially as you go across the street with the new site how do you think about ownership structure for those phases? And this is from kind of from the perspective of diversification and concentration risk is it as strategic to own everything you do across the street as it is things that are on the row there because obviously it will get to be a very big chunk of your overall investment? No it's a big consideration.
Let me start there and Jeff you can finish up.
Let me actually start with the end of the street.
The one thing that it's really important to remember about our developments over phases is that a lot of people keep thinking of Santana and things that we've owned for a long time as developments but they're not they're stable shopping centers.
And when you look at Santana Row in particular that is probably one of the most stable shopping centers in the entire portfolio.
And it -- while geographically it is obviously all in one spot it is diversified not only in terms of the retail itself but also with the larger financial base there.
So when we think about office at the end of the street I can tell you we'll absolutely think about partnering with some money on the -- to take some of the risk off the table on the office at the end of the street.
What I will also say that if we can't come to a deal where we think -- if we think we're giving away too much we will do it ourselves at the end of the street simply because the balance of it is a very stable shopping center already.
And so that incremental decision is just that it's an incremental decision.
Having said that your point with respect to geographic concentration is not lost but the company really has grown a ton since we talked about each additional phase.
And when you think about what has happened to the market cap of the company it is still a much smaller part of geographic concentration than it's been historically.
So that combination of 2 things I just want you to know we do look at its height [ph] closely but I could see us going either way.
In terms of across the street we're really early on.
But Jeff you want to talk that through a little bit? Yes don't know that I have a whole lot to add to what you said Don.
But one thing Paul we don't know exactly where we're headed across the street yet.
We have a lot of work to do there with the city and the community and all that kind of thing to figure out ultimately what we're going to be able to get entitled.
One of the thoughts is to obviously put a significant residential component on that site.
And when you step back and kind of look at where you can invest in residential in particular long-term it's hard not to be real bullish on owning residential in Silicon Valley.
As you know from living here it's just very very difficult to get residential built and then entitled in an area where there's effectively very little remaining land and a lot of long-term upward pressure on NOI from residential properties.
So yes I think on the office we're obviously thinking through everything Don said we are.
On the residential maybe not so much just because of the long-term prospects.
Research Division</strong> Great and then just lastly on Santana.
It sounds like you might be losing Loring Ward which is one of the bigger tenants in your other office property there.
Remind me that came on at a pretty soft time in the market is that upside potential? Loring Ward has been a great tenant here for 10 years and the principals that run Loring Ward are great people they've got a great company and we would've liked to have been able to keep them.
We just couldn't accommodate them and there's a lot of demand for the office space here at Santana Row and the economics just didn't work to figure out a way to accommodate them.
So yes I think ultimately there's clearly upside between their contract rent and market rent and we're not really concerned at all about backfilling the space.
But Paul you do bring up a great point that way.
We have found that the office demand at Santana particularly over the past couple of years 2 or 3 years has grown disproportionately.
We don't have any space there and we would have loved to have kept Loring Ward as Jeff said but we just couldn't we didn't have the space to be able to keep them.
And they wanted to stay badly but we didn't have the space to be able to keep them.
So that goes in part into our thinking too about how to really continue that part of this business to create the place that Santana Row is truly a common that is the center of the valley.
Paul again from being out here how important an amenitized office experience is to the people that work at the companies out here.
And like Don said over the past few years Jan and I in particular in talking to the people that run the businesses here at Santana Row have just seen incredible affinity for wanting to be in this type of environment.
Their employees love it.
Our next question is from Jeff Donnelly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually sticking with Santana Row I'm just curious this is for you Jeff.
On the Winchester site it may require something of a complex answer to an easy question but do the ground lease terms that you guys signed there necessitate a certain mix or density or even timing of construction that might make the development ambitious? I don't know if there's a way you can kind of contrast your plans there versus Santana in terms of density and mix? Well there some timing hurdles in terms of what we need to do to entitle the site Jeff but beyond that there's a lot of flexibility in what we can do.
And like Don said earlier if we can't entitle it the way we want to entitle it we're not obligated forever over there.
So I mean without getting into a lot of specifics that really probably aren't appropriate I can't say whole heck of a lot more than that but I think that answers your question right? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
And I understand it's early on.
And then I guess maybe switching back to Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly are you guys able to talk a little more specifically about the pace and price of the shop space retail leasing and maybe how concessions such as like TIs kick outs or free rents have fared versus expectation? I think we're very pleased with the outcome of where it's going to go and I think we're very bullish on these deal structures that we have in place at the Assembly to take advantage of the momentum building there.
I'm very optimistic that we're going to see some good percentage around payment over the years as this center matures and as we have more density.
Having Partners and 4 700-plus employees there in a couple of years really creates a great captive audience for the restaurants that we're putting in the entertainment uses.
And as it relates to Pike &amp; Rose I think those deal structures are more comparable to what we've seen in the DC area.
They're at very strong rents and I think if the sales -- if we have the sales success that we anticipate we're also going to see the potential for percentage rent there as well.
So we're very -- from a leasing standpoint very pleased.
I don't know if Don has anything else to add.
The only thing I'd say Jeff is I will give you some more detail on that.
I don't want to do it this quarter yet I'd like us to get tenants moved in.
I'd like to move that process along regularly the way we're doing and -- but as we get into the fall I will give more detail on kind of where we are on rents where we are where we see things overall.
But the guidance in terms of the overall returns are sticking.
And so you can get a pretty good idea of our initial thoughts.
But again I'll have more on that as we get them open and into the fall.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one last question can you remind me why I guess why you guys are making the effort at Union Square in Somerville? It's a small project and I guess I'm wondering is it about sort of amortizing your city relationships? Or is it something that actually has a much bigger longer-term possibility than I guess we're thinking about? Let me -- it's probably the latter and I'll tell you why.
There's a couple of things: first of all I have no idea whether it's going to be us.
It's down to a few people and having the productive city relationships as you can imagine is both a good thing and a bad thing.
And so we'll know more as to whether we play a role there or not in the coming months but we don't know that answer today.
I will tell you that as a -- for being here as long as we have our team and seeing what Bethesda Row was and Bethesda Row is and how that came across and the value that was created there there are a lot of similarities in Union Square.
There's a lot of similarities.
And so the ability to kind of piece meal that together and create something that just would be amazing for the constituents there and also be very rewarding in terms of our value created it's appealing plus we have our best team in terms of that type of product sitting right there with Briggs in charge.
So when you kind of look at it all together we looked at Union Square as something very desirable.
We'd love to have the opportunity to do that and hope we get the chance to.
Our next question is from Christy McElroy.
Research Division</strong> Jim just when you thought you said enough about snow [ph] I'm going to ask you about snow [ph].
Regarding the 100-basis point impact in the quarter Don I think you talked about an 80% to 85% expected to be recovered.
Did you book all of those recoveries in Q1? And that was that difference was the 100 basis points? Or should we be thinking about some of those recoveries occurring in Q2 or Q3? I'm just trying to get a sense for how to think about the recovery rate for the balance of the year and sort of what caused that 15% to 20% of leakage? Well what causes the leakage is the fact that we have assets that don't all have net leases whether they have office uses or residential uses and in certain circumstances we have caps [ph].
We do look at our expense recoveries on an annual basis but almost all that impact is in from a drag perspective is in the first quarter.
We will have a higher recovery rate for the balance of the year but unlike some points made by others the impact of that increase in the recovery rate for the balance of the year is marginal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the promotion of Chris Weilminster to EVP Real Estate and Leasing can you talk a little bit about any changes to the split of responsibilities at the executive level? Yes I can.
What has become apparent over the years -- I hate to say nice things about Weilminster while he's sitting right here.
I am going to look in the other direction Christy as I say it.
But what's become apparent is that Chris is more than a real good leasing guy.
He is clearly an executive in the company that gets involved with other things including a hotel deal that we're trying to do in the second phase of Pike &amp; Rose for example including the office deals that we work through at Pike &amp; Rose including strategically what we do with our assets.
And basically this promotion from my point of view is a recognition of what he's grown-up to be effectively.
And I thought it was important to have that recognized externally as well as internally.
Research Division</strong> So no changes to any other -- any of the other roles on the team? The other executive team roles? No.
Research Division</strong> Right exactly.
Okay.
Got you.
And then just a quick follow-up on the restaurant question how do you think about the leasing to sort of entrepreneurs versus national and regional restaurant operators? And is there any differences in how the leases are structured? Well let's -- let me talk to that broadly and let's see where Chris wants to go.
There are better financial deals usually on the face with the local entrepreneurs than there are with the big national retailers.
That's all about leverage not much different than any retail category general comment.
Secondly it's all about the mix.
And so it's really important -- when I think of restaurants I'm not talking about using restaurants as an anchor as an anchor for all the national chains that's -- that wouldn't accomplish in our view the goal we want.
But a national chain like a Yard House or somebody like that with local entrepreneurs as we're doing up in Assembly with a Papagayo that should open up this month for Petes sake who's great locally known.
That mix creates the impact to the anchor for the tenancy that we want.
And when it comes down to the thing of the individual structures I just gave you a kind of an overall.
But each deal is a negotiation and each deal is our risk-adjusted guess if you will educated I hope with respect to what they're going to do in sales what they're going to do in profitability and what the appropriate share is for us.
And the only thing I would add Don to that is that we love the local restaurateurs because they're able to modify their menu on a daily basis to give the consumers what they want.
So it adds a very good dynamic and a unique experience to our customers as we try and give them more reasons to come shop our centers versus the competition And that's what we find in the local guys much more so than the chains which have to go up a whole hierarchy of decision-making before they can change one item on the menu.
So the combination of both as Don says really gives us a powerful mix.
We have a question from Jason White.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question on your resi portfolio.
Do you guys keep a metric that's kind of same-store NOI metric for your -- for the resi? I'm sure we do.
I don't have it right here.
As resi becomes a bigger number it's not necessarily becoming a bigger and bigger part of the portfolio that said we are always going to be a retail company.
But it is becoming 7% 8% and sometimes 9% of our total base.
In 3 years it will be $1 billion company.
And so we're going to go through and think about our reporting on resi and see if we can maybe include in the 8-K some additional information that way on it.
I don't have it right here and I don't know if any of our...
Jason we look at it asset-by-asset in our quarterly reviews and we've got different types of resi within the portfolio.
We've got some older resi some more what I call B+ resi and then we have the higher-end mixed-use.
I'll tell you that across-the-board the performance has been very strong.
We haven't seen for example in our DC portfolio some of the softness that I think some of the other multifamily folks have seen that have assets more downtown or in the Crystal City submarkets.
I think part of that is also reflected in the good lease-ups so far that we've seen on PerSei.
So as Don pointed out we don't do it as a portfolio yet but certainly as it becomes a more significant part we will consider that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one more question on Pike &amp; Rose.
You have quite a number of entitlements remaining on the property and I'm just wondering what Phase 1 has kind of taught you about what Phase 2 and maybe beyond what the demand looks like? So before you were obviously cautious about how much you were going to build out in the near term but do you have a better idea on that now that you've started to build out and lease some of the space? That's a great question Jason and yes particularly as it relates to retail demand.
There's a lot more retail demand than we're able to provide in this first phase.
And so very anxious to kind of continue on that experience and create enough retail stuff there to be able to give us the experience that we're looking for.
I'm very happy there.
In terms of the residential we're just as I say we're just kind of getting started and so far so good.
The real key there from my perspective will be what happens in the Big Tower and that will be a 2015 -- we'll have a lot of information there.
But enough so that we are real comfortable that the second phase which will be much more heavily retail hopefully include a hotel and I think it will.
We're real close on a deal there.
And then on the resi we'll probably do a small condo component there because all of the resi questions are "Can we buy something here?" And so we know there's some level of demand we don't want to take a lot obviously condo risk is different than rental risk but we'd like it to be some component of what we're building going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you build out Pike &amp; Rose and you have so much other redevelopment potential on the corridor there.
Is it more of a daisy-chaining of deals where you do all you can at Pike &amp; Rose and then you move on to the other adjacent properties and see about densifying those or is there some element of mixing in some densification on the other sites while you're in the process of building future entitlements on Pike &amp; Rose? Well yes.
It's not -- the one thing we don't -- it is not it's a daisy-chaining among properties.
Each property's look at very individually in terms of what it is what it is that we can do or adding pad sites today across the street at Montrose.
There's still more to do we believe at Montrose in terms of a longer-term redevelopment there.
When you come down to the properties like Federal Plaza it's pretty built out.
There's one other opportunity on the pack that we're looking at hard as soon as we can get to that we'll get to that.
In terms of Congressional Plaza in the next 2 or 3 or 4 months we're going to be building another small residential component to the back of it to complement our Crest I residential complex there.
So each specific asset gets handled as a specific asset.
But in terms of Pike &amp; Rose it's 10 years.
There's 10 years worth of stuff to do there.
It's a big piece of land and even after Phase 2 there's a Phase 3 and a Phase 4.
So stay tuned.
We're just at the beginning part of what I think will be a very long growth development period for what we already have under control.
We have a question from Haendel St.
Juste.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for you first on cap rates and capital allocation.
You mentioned earlier that the cap rates for high-quality assets you're looking at your core markets were in the high 4s.
Can you give us a sense of what you think the IRRs pencil out to and why perhaps you think it makes sense to pursue these deals if well given return attractive return opportunities on development and redevelopment? Well it's a very good question and every investment decision we make Haendel is weighed against what our alternatives are and the relative risk of each particular opportunity.
What I was alluding to on the marketed side with what we've seen on both the East and West Coast is a true compression not just in cap rates but IRRs.
Recently a center's gone under contract in Reston Virginia with a Whole Foods.
We think the IRR in that is a 5-handle IRR and was in fact marketed as a flat-6 IRR.
So that's where it was marketed.
You make your own judgments as to where that ultimately was traded.
We won't do that deal.
We won't do that deal.
We will not -- we will not do a deal like that.
And so what we've found with marketed opportunities right now is that it's got to have some complexity something that we can add value to for us to be interested.
Where I am pleased with the level of activity that we're seeing on both coasts is frankly more structured deals that involve tax deferral or other things where we have a unique competitive advantage to really get to a value that makes sense and clears our hurdles long term.
So we feel good about that but from a capital allocation standpoint you're absolutely right we weigh it against what our alternatives are.
And let me just add to that Haendel because I love the question.
It is a battle.
Each one that we look at we could be doing a whole lot more given our cost of capital our own cost of capital and what we could get done.
Having said that you have -- when you look at our last one just talk about The Grove this time and you look at The Grove what we believe we can bring in terms of our retail leasing expertise coupled with the local expertise of that team is lease rates that are significantly higher than they would otherwise be bringing us up into 7 effectively in terms of the IRR and probably north but that's where we're underwriting it.
So it's got to show that kind of ability to get there and not just a coupon clipper.
And as I think you're implying why do that rather than development? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And following up speaking of low cap rates I was hoping you could talk a bit about New York City street retail.
Even though that too is super low cap rate.
And maybe your cost of capital is not quite at a place where the numbers can work but is there anything out there you're looking at or that you think that makes sense to you economically? It's in -- boy it's on the list we're certainly looking at it.
So just like in every other market very very little of what we look at can we can say ah we can make it pencil from an IRR perspective.
And so far I don't know Jim what you want to add to that but so far we've been skunked.
Yes we have looked at a few opportunities in Manhattan and yes the returns just don't underwrite for us.
We have a question from Jim Sullivan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Really just to follow on the prior question here.
It's interesting that when you talk about cap rate compression I guess we can talk or debate whether the cap rate compression is more cyclical or secular.
I'm curious as you think about your own portfolio and allocating capital to development does the reduction in cap rates that you're talking about does it lead you to either consider selling more assets number one and number 2 perhaps lowering your hurdle rate on development or neither or both? I'm curious how you think about how you're going to devote capital given what's happened with cap rates.
Yes every -- you raise a good point and the way we think about it is even a decision to hold an asset is effectively an investment decision.
As we look across the portfolio and we've alluded to in the past there are a few assets that we are looking at selling.
We don't feel pressure because to hold IRR is not a bleeder but certainly thinking about timing of the market and the value that we could get for some of those assets today.
We've not included any asset dispositions in our guidance Jim but you might see a disposition or 2 of some smaller assets that we think don't present much growth opportunity.
So we do look at that and think about it all the time.
In terms of the second part of your question we take a long-term view on return hurdles.
And we take a long-term view as it relates to acquisitions what type of reversionary cap rates we should underwrite.
We take a long-term view in terms of required returns on development.
And while we may have a marginal cost of capital that's low today we don't lose sight of the fact that our investors expect us to produce growth.
And to deliver that we -- and deliver it responsibly we've got to balance the risks associated with the development activity the returns and the visibility that we have.
I would tell you what I'm personally most excited about as we sit right now is that we have 2 very large development opportunities where we've taken a lot of the risk out of the equation in the first phases of Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly where I think an institutional investor would come in and pay us for the value that's created there.
So I think we've got value delivering very shortly in terms of the initial phases but also as Don alluded to as we think about future phases we do so from a much more informed perspective as Jason was pointing out in his question but also with a lower-risk profile because we're adding on to a base that's already been established if you will.
So I'm excited about it and I think we have a lot of opportunities to exploit.
And then what you're hearing in our discussions is continuing to plant seeds for the future.
For example what Jeff has done across the street at Santana.
It may or may not happen but I think it's evidence that we're always looking out and trying to set ourselves up to find opportunities like that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay then second question for me.
We focus on same-store NOI or talk about same-store NOI we tend to focus on obviously leasing spreads and occupancy rates.
And I'm just curious at this point in the cycle Don as you think about that with occupancy rates pretty much it seems as high as they're going to get I mean correct me if I'm wrong I just wonder to what extent there are other levers to push in terms of same-store NOI? And then I'm thinking about whether it's occupancy operating cost recovery rates or the nature and type of the bumps you're able to get at this point in the cycle what else is there besides pushing pricing at this stage in the cycle to boost your same-store NOI growth rate? Jim I'll tell you man.
The -- I'm going to give you a little downer answer here.
But this is -- I say this every call and I just really need to get this out.
Our business is a 3% growing business that's what it is.
Sometimes it's 2.5% sometimes it's 3.5% and in tight periods of strength like we're in right now it still can be 4%.
I don't believe that the shopping center business in general is that type of business I think it's much lower than that.
I think it's a 1.5% to 2% grower.
And so when you sit back -- and I don't think that's our portfolio as I said I think our portfolio is 3% 3%-plus.
But that's what this business is.
During any period of time you're working real hard to get it to say as tight as you can on costs.
I think we've done a good job there.
I think we could do a little better to tell you the truth in terms of leasing spreads and pushing that is always a kind of a deal-by-deal shopping center-by-shopping center market-by-market basis.
But it's always the most important component of that same-store growth.
Operating not only up on expense costs but it is always incumbent upon us to find -- to make sure and we spend a lot of time on this that the contractual rents -- the contractual contracts if you will are as strong as they can be to allow for the best recoveries that we can find.
I do think we have an advantage there.
I think our advantage there is simply because the real estate is better we have more leverage in those nonquantitative if you will qualitative parts of a lease which we work hard on.
But when you cut through all that this is a 3% 3.5% growing business from Federal's point of view and it's a 1.5% to 2% growing business in most of our competitors and I'll just go to my grave believing that.
We have a question from Brandon Cheatham.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Ki Bin.
So kind of tie in your commentary about internal growth rates obviously Devon [ph] is a big part of your story but could you help I mean you just kind of put it together I mean you have big projects and potential in Santana Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose all these things together.
But when I piece it out throughout the next 3 to 4 years -- so 2 parts to that question though how much is a realistic amount of investable dollars per year around those 3 to 4 years.
And are market rents and economics currently healthy enough to justify those builds? We've got couple of hundred million dollars of spend per year for the next several years.
We've done it in phases Ki Bin to get to the second part of your question because certainly there are cycles.
But in terms of the demand that we see today we feel very good about it.
And it's evidenced in our results.
I mentioned before we had some rollover coming this year of some pretty significant box space as Chris and his team were all over it we're effectively done with a lot of that.
And as it relates to the leasing momentum that you see in the first phases as we talked about 92% lease at Pike &amp; Rose and I'll tell you the balance of the space is an internal debate over what kind of small salons or spas we want to put into the balance of the space.
And similarly 97% leased at Assembly I think really underscores the strength of what we're seeing now.
And of course we're doing it in phases because there are always cycles but we feel real good about the momentum.
Our ICSC conference is really going to be talking a lot Ki Bin about Phase 2 of Pike &amp; Rose or Phase 2 of Assembly or what's left to do at The Pointe at Plaza El Segundo.
So we feel good about that.
In terms of investment within the core itself what we talk about as more of the tactical redevelopment we continue to identify opportunities there which bring higher returns admittedly higher attractive risk-adjusted returns.
But there's always so much that you can do at any one point in time for a myriad of reasons.
But there you're going to see us to somewhere between $40 million to $70 million annually of spend at much higher rates of return and I think complementary to what those centers will be post-redevelopment.
I don't know if that answers your question but that -- we see a pretty decent pipeline and feel good at least what we see currently in terms of demand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that that -- if I understand you correctly is that about you're projecting about $300 million per year? It's about -- yes about somewhere between $250 million and $300 million somewhere in there yes.
We have a question from Chris Lucas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One is Don as the recovery has sort of continued to progress and there doesn't seem to be any macro pickup at all in new center construction have you in the areas that you guys are active have you noticed or have you gotten a sense that there is a greater sense of urgency among the tenants that in fact they need to make deals now relative to maybe where they were 6 months ago? Yes I have Chris.
And it -- I mean part of it -- take The Assembly development for a second.
Now it is new developments new product there's no question that we got a lot more interest in it because it was new product and because physically of where it was.
And with the timing of the way it was going to open by definition there had to be a greater sense of urgency so that's part of this answer.
But beyond that I mean where we were to where we came at Assembly the same thing that happened at Pike &amp; Rose clearly indicates a sense of urgency to get stores open for 2015.
And every tenant is a little different most of them have certainly filled their '14 book some of them have filled their '15 book also but not all.
And so when they haven't there is a big sense of urgency right now to get '15 deals open and they get '16 deals going.
So I would expect to see a pretty good ICSC coming up in 2 weeks.
And I -- it's very hard to tell you will all be asking after that meeting how -- what's the sentiment now how is that -- what kind of convention did you have? But that is where you'll get some kind of an idea and it's a gut feel more than it is done deals as to where that sense of urgency is for what periods of some time you're trying to fill space.
So keep an eye on that over the next few weeks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Jim just a quick question kind of going back to this issue of the cap rate compression dispositions how do you weigh your equity capital requirements for future spend between -- using the ATM and the opportunity to do dispositions? It's a balance.
We have -- we're fortunate that we have a lot of great capital opportunities ahead of us and we always want to have a balance sheet that's flexible and doesn't put us in a position Chris where we have to access the capital markets in any particular point in time.
And I think we've demonstrated that we don't need to really raise any external capital to fund all that we have underway and then a little bit more.
But it's a balance because we're taking a long-term view.
And as it relates to dispositions this company was built one asset at a time over 50 years.
So while we have some assets that we think are on that list they're not significant from a capital perspective.
So they form a part of the capital plan sure and the cap rates make that capital look very attractive but it's not going to be a substantial part of our funding plan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was just thinking about the Clarion JV in terms of the life cycle of that particular investment and sort of how the markets progressed.
Yes and there as with any joint venture it's not a sole decision.
So -- and that's -- you're on the nub of a very important point about joint ventures and that is that you have somebody else who has to agree that it's time to sell.
And we've got a great relationship with them and you may see us sell an asset or 2 out of that but not -- certainly not our decision solely.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to Ms.
Kristina Lennox.
Thank you for participating today.
Our team looks forward to seeing you at the ICSC and then at NAREIT in New York.
Have a good weekend.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Kristina Lennox you may begin.
Good morning.
And I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial conditions and results of operation.
These documents are available on our website at www.federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our second quarter 2014 results.
Don? Thanks Kristina and good morning everybody.
The 2014 second quarter and the few weeks that followed to today have been among the most consequential in our long history.
In addition to producing FFO per share of $1.23 nearly 8% better than last year's quarter and the best quarter we've ever reported in 50-plus years the progress that we've made in negotiating all sorts of deals that position us for years of net asset value accretion company wide was substantial.
In a few minutes Jim's going to talk about our reported results for the quarter.
I'd like to talk to you today about deals and issues this quarter that in my view set us up really well for creating incremental value in the future and got us started with a dividend increase.
It's the combination of continued and consistent financial performance from the core that results in pretty significant taxable income growth coupled with our bullish expectations for the future given our development pipeline.
That gives us the confidence to increase our quarterly dividend by $0.09 a share more than we originally estimated and more than before.
The result was a 12% increase in the annualized dividend rate from $3.12 a share to $3.48 per share the 47th year in a row of dividend increases.
Nobody in REIT land can touch that record.
And we wouldn't do that without some very positive initial signals about the success of the first phases of our major development projects.
Let me address that for a minute.
There's little doubt that the initial phase of new retail or mixed-use destinations carry risks that's higher than subsequent phases because for varying degrees they require proof-of-concepts.
Whether it's a new location a new merchandising mix or the pure number of new leases to be executed.
Of course not every new development is equally risky.
And as we've talked about on previous calls and in other investor venues we go to long lengths to mitigate initial phase risks by building on proven retail locations by project phasing by preleasing as much as possible and by executing GMP contracts.
But there's still initial phases and their successful execution is the key to decades-long continuation of additional value creation.
So if the first phases are successful future phases are far less risky.
They're more predictable sometimes they carry higher yields.
There's no better example than at Santana Row where as of today the $75 million Misora residential project is 97% 98% leased with average rents of $3 a foot.
It will generate nearly $6 million of operating income in the first 12 stabilized months of operation and it's likely worth twice what it costs to build.
Now I don't think it's a stretch to think that without the success of the initial phases of Santana Row neither the income generated from Misora nor with the cap rate used to value it would be nearly as robust as they are.
And while it's still too early to say definitively that the first phases of Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose are unmitigated successes the early signs are good with the following status update for each project.
Let me start at Assembly.
We opened the first 13 tenants in Phase 1 on Memorial Day weekend including Anchor's LEGOLAND Discovery Center AMC theaters Saks Off Fifth and Nike Outlets.
We've opened 11 more since and we expect to open 14 more by the end of this quarter for a total of 38 tenants on our way to 90% retail occupancy by year-end.
We're nearly fully leased.
LEGOLAND Discovery Center exceeded their own projections by over 30% in the first month of operations and they're drawing patrons from well in excess of 100 miles away.
AMC theaters have increased sales each month they've been open and now exceed all but one of their 19 theaters in the Boston MSA.
Saks has significantly increased their stabilized sales plan due to their strong opening.
And Nike is consistently trending ahead of plan so far.
Perhaps most encouraging our adjacent power center called Assembly Square Marketplace has experienced double-digit increases in sales since the first tenants began opening in the mixed use center.
And the office building whose construction trails the balance of Phase 1 by a couple of months would come to terms with their first tenant who will take 25 000 of that 100 000 square foot building expect more as the T-stop opens and the property begins to fill up.
The T-stop by the way is on track pardon the pun to open this fall.
On the other end of the site Partners HealthCare is on schedule to begin construction later this month that's right in August.
And it's planned to bring 4 700-plus workers to the site in as much as 900 000 square feet of space beginning in 2016.
We envision the service retail contemplated as part of the Partners construction to be part of a broader Assembly Row second phase that we're crunching numbers on now.
Retail demand and interest for our second phase appears very strong.
So as it relates to Assembly and all mixed use developments for that matter we know that it's a building and a maturation process that takes time to become a real and necessary part of the greater Boston community but our initial ability to drive lots of people to the site with a limited tenant offering with no operating T-stop and no Partners complex yet in this very densely populated market it's really encouraging.
Sure seems like there's lots of value to add here.
Now at Pike &amp; Rose.
Beginning this quarter we've received our certificate of occupancy for per se the first of 2 residential buildings of the project and we currently have 60 families living there.
That 174 unit building is already more than 50% leased on the residential side and nearly 100% leased in terms of the ground floor retail.
Retail occupancy is on schedule and all of Phase 1 to begin this fall.
The second residential building called Pallas is a 319-unit 19-story highrise which will be delivered next spring.
That building like the rest of Phase 1 remains on time and on budget.
We also announced last month that we signed Bank of America Merrill Lynch to 40 000 square feet of office at our pro forma rents in this first phase securing half of the available office product.
Merrill will occupy in 2015 and demand for the balance of the space is strong.
Like Assembly our Phase 1 experience is encouraging in all facets: retail residential and office.
And accordingly we're moving closer to a go on Phase 2 at Pike &amp; Rose and hope to provide you cost return and timing expectations on our next quarterly call.
Our work to date on Phase 2 imagine the continuation of the spine of the project.
Our main retail street called Grand Park Avenue along with up to 3 ancillary buildings which together would add nearly 200 000 feet of retail.
Approximately 250 rental apartments 100 for sale condominiums which sit above 150-room lifestyle-oriented hotel is also part of that phase.
And then let's go to the West Coast.
With the effective completion of Misora we're anxious to move forward the next piece of Santana Row development during the continuing strong office environment Silicon Valley in general Santana Row specifically.
While we call the building 11 site it will be recognized by those of you who know Santana Row as the surface parking lot at the corner of Winchester Boulevard and Olson at the southern end of the property adjacent to the CinArts Movie Theater.
It's a great site.
It's easily accessible at Interstates 280 and 880 with Santana Row amenities that are very highly sought after.
Space needs are growing rapidly in the valley and the nature of tech makes the timeframe required to prelease before building problematic.
Accordingly we expect to be under construction this fall with a 225 000 square foot 6-story Class A office building along with nearly 670 parking spaces and a garage below the building that will complement existing retail parking nights and weekends.
Total cost is estimated $115 million with a range of expected rents that'll put the stabilized yield in the 7.5% to 8.5% range.
In Southern California construction of the $80 million Point Lifestyle Center in El Segundo moves along without drama and as anticipated on time and on budget.
Also given the large developments that we have underway it's sometimes easy to forget that we have an additional $100 million of taxable redevelopment underway at centers like Tower Shops and Davie Florida Mercer Mall in New Jersey and Westgate Center in San Jose California.
On average this $100 million is being deployed at incremental returns in excess of 10% and an integral part of the strategic plan that we laid out for you at Investor Day last fall.
And while we don't have acquisitions to report on for this call it is very likely that we will by year-end as 2 separate projects are under our control as we speak with due diligence and administrative documentation underway.
I think I'll stop there in terms of my prepared remarks and just want to end by expressing my enthusiasm for both our continued strong core results quarter-after-quarter as well as with the delivery of some of the finest retail mix-used product available anywhere.
Now let me turn it over to Jim for his remarks on the quarter before we open the line to your questions.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
The FFO per share of $1.23 represented yet another quarterly record for the trust and exceeded the FFO achieved in the second quarter of last year by 8%.
Impressively our team continued to deliver these bottom line results while also achieving significant strategic milestones and future value creation.
As Don just provided some great insight into how these milestones demonstrate the execution of our strategic plan I will focus on the foundation for all of this value creation our core portfolio.
On the leasing front we signed 128 leases for a total of 623 000 square feet of retail space.
This quarterly volume represents a record for the trust.
And despite a large proportion of anchor deals we achieved an average rent of $35.83.
Now go back to over several quarters as I've emphasized with many of you and you'll see that we are achieving average rents in the low- to mid-30s over in place rents that average in the mid-20s.
It's clear an indication as any of the embedded growth that remains in our in-place leases.
In more detail of the 128 leases signed this quarter 109 were for comparable space and 19 related to newly built space primarily at Assembly Pike &amp; Rose and The Point.
Of the 109 comparable deals we achieved an average cash rollover growth of 16% or 30% on a straight-line basis.
The average cash rollover growth for new deals was 30% and for renewals was 8%.
Simply put these results underscore the strength of our real estate and importantly the strength of our leasing operations legal and tenant coordination team responsible for delivering these types of outstanding results quarter-after-quarter and year-after-year.
From a portfolio perspective we ended the quarter at 95.3% leased and 94.3% occupied both down sequential -- or both down slightly on a sequential basis due primarily to a Kohl's lease expiration on Long Island that we expect to backfill at better economics in terms for the trust.
As mentioned on previous calls we do expect additional anchor vacancy on a rollover basis in the next quarter that we backfilled with better long-term deals.
Now turning to our financial results.
Total revenue for the company grew at 6%.
This increase was driven primarily by rollover and contractural rent growth versus occupancy gains as well as the successful integration of acquisitions and the delivery of Misora at Santana.
Our overall operating margin remained strong at 69.9% despite the investment as Don has highlighted of marketing dollars for our new development projects.
Overall property operating income grew at 5.2%.
On a same center basis we grew 4% excluding redevelopment and 4.2% with it.
Again none of which was due to occupancy gains.
G&amp;A remains essentially flat as we've maintained strict control on expenses and net interest expense decreased over $3.9 million due primarily to lower overall borrowing rates that we achieved through refinancing.
We look forward to achieving additional interest savings benefit as we refinance expensive near-term debt.
Bottom line our FFO per share grew at 8%.
All while we max funded our development activity to keep our balance sheet strong and as discussed in previous quarters overcame earnings drag associated with delivering all of this new value creation.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the quarter we accessed the ATM for $52 million at a weighted average price of $119.66 per share.
We also repaid $24 million of secured mortgages including our share of JV debt.
We ended the quarter with nothing drawn on our line of credit and $41 million of cash importantly providing us plenty of capacity to fund our remaining development activity including the newly announced building at Santana Row.
Our debt to market cap improved to 22% and our debt-to-EBITDA decreased to 5.3x while our fixed charge coverage improved to 3.8x.
From a capital recycling perspective subsequent to quarter end we sold our Pleasant Shops asset in the Boston MSA that we owned in partnership with Clarion at a mid floor cap rate for a total sales price of $34 million.
From an acquisition perspective we do remain active as Don highlighted and have 2 assets under control that are subject to third-party consent.
We are pleased that these assets would draw in our existing core markets who are sourced directly.
And as Don highlighted we'll provide more detail on the coming months.
Now turning to outlook.
We have increased our 2014 FFO guidance range to $4.90 to $4.94 per share an increase of $0.025 at the midpoint from our prior guidance of $4.86 to $4.93.
This guidance is typical.
It does not include the impact of any acquisitions that we may complete later in the year.
The increased guidance here is largely driven by the continued strength in our core portfolio which continues to drive organic growth without occupancy gains as well as the accelerated lease up of Misora.
As discussed on our last call we expect our occupancy to remain lower during the latter part of the year as we roll larger anchor spaces.
This rollover and associated downtime as we replace these tenants will cause some drag on our same-store numbers particularly in the third quarter.
However the strength of the quarter will continue to be our largest driver of growth this year.
From a timing perspective we began delivery of approximately $350 million of development and redevelopment this year and expect to deliver another $200 million of investment associated with these initial phases of Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly in 2015.
We are on time and on budget.
These deliveries include the following: our $75 million investment in Misora which stabilized this month to 97% leased well ahead of schedule; buildings 11 and 12 at Pike &amp; Rose which represent approximately $125 million of investment began opening in phases this quarter and we expect will stabilize in 2015; building 10 our 319-unit residential building in the Office which collectively represent approximately $150 million of investment will open mid-next year and stabilize in 2016; Phase 1 in retail of Assembly Row which represents another hundred -- which represents $150 million of investment will continue to open through the third quarter and stabilize in 2015 and '16 as tenants report a full year of sales; the Office which represents approximately $50 million of investment will deliver in 2015 and also stabilize in '16.
As Don highlighted in his remarks these projects are substantially leased and will bring us significant value both in the near term as well as over time.
I'd like to conclude my remarks with an observation about the fundamental goal of our business plan which is the delivery of a steadily increasing stream of cash flow.
This quarter's announced dividend increase of nearly 12% not only represented the 47th consecutive and largest absolute increase as Don highlighted it also reflects several years of careful stewardship for underlying growth and taxable income drives the growth in current return delivered to our shareholders.
By managing to our minimum payout and maintaining a conservative payout ratio we help ensure the continuation of our industry-leading record.
With that operator I'd like to now turn the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looks like you might close to breaking ground on that 100-unit residential projects in Cowson [ph].
I think [indiscernible] residential what really [indiscernible] foreseeable residential only projects I mean and I guess could you be paid to sell the entitlements without executing on the construction? Jeff you cut out a little bit but let me -- I think I got the gist of your question.
The answer is no.
We do not anticipate future residential only projects where we don't have a retail bulkhead or beachhead there.
In the case of Cowson that was a piece of land that we acquired.
I think -- didn't we get that with White Marsh? We did.
Back with the White Marsh portfolio and it was kind of a throw in if you will in that transaction.
And heck if there's any piece of land that's sitting with the company that has the opportunity to be able to create some value we're all over it.
So that's why that one got out.
That's an outlier because in the nature of how we accumulate property we don't normally have exit plans.
So that was just a little piece that came with White Marsh.
That's why we're doing that one.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could it be economical for you guys to sell it without pursuing the developments [ph] at this point? It's really something that I've got to tell you we're getting pretty good at.
In terms of these small residential projects whether they're at the back of Congressional Plaza or even up in Boston where we did one last year.
So we're very comfortable in our ability to do it.
That's why we would do that with the team all ready to do it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just I'm curious the lease permit use and redevelopment projects what's the leasing pace like of what I'd guess I'd call your bread-and-butter properties? Can you guys see that change in the overall pent-up demand for space or the velocity of leasing? I guess I'm more focused on the pace [indiscernible] I think I got you.
You really are coming in now.
I think you're asking about Small Shop pace in the core portfolio.
[indiscernible] a little strong but let me turn it over to Chris Weilminster to see if he has anything to add to that.
Yes I think the tenants are still -- they're still remembering what happened in 2009 and '10.
I think they've all got more sophisticated in every transaction has hair on the deal and it's much harder to accomplish.
So we work much harder to keep up the trends that you're seeing.
So although Don it is bullish I think you see that in our numbers.
We're performing well with our numbers but it's very hard to accomplish each one of those deals.
Our next question comes from the line of Samir Khanal of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this but I know the other property income line was up at around $4.3 million.
I think that may have been kind of the highest since 2012.
I'm wondering if there are any kind of term fees involved in that? There is $1 million-or-so of term fees in there $1.5-plus million.
About $1 million of term fees and that's really behind most of the increase.
In terms of the pace of term fees for the year we're kind of consistent with what we expect every year.
And the $3 million to $4 million if you go back and you look at the kind of the 10-year average.
Research Division</strong> And did that have -- I mean how much of an impact did that have on I guess same-store NOI growth? Probably not much right? It was beneficial again but offset by a few other items.
Yes.
I need you to understand this.
I know I probably say this each time but it's really important to me.
When you look at what our business is and what we do I know as an analyst you like to parse out term fees or look at even growth with and without redevelopment which we do break out and I'm sorry I ever agreed to that back in 2005 or whenever.
Our business includes redevelopment of the core and it includes writing strong contracts so that we have leverage to the extent we need to move tenants around.
And that's where you get term fees.
It's a key part of what it is that we do.
Some quarters it helps the same-store growth some quarters it hurts the same-store growth numbers.
It's on average but what it is for again what we expected it for this year.
But I know you love to break it out but I really am going to implore again it's part and parcel of what our business is.
And that's why it's important to have in there.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if we're thinking about Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose what are the milestones that you're kind of looking for or waiting for before you actually announce Phase 2s? Is it the time of Phase 1 the leasing percentages of the Phase 1s? Or preleasing of Phase 2? Or something else? It's all of those things Mike.
It's complicated.
The other side that you didn't talk about was getting the numbers locked down in Phase 2.
And that means not just estimating construction costs.
And we take a lot of pride in basically saying on time and on budget.
A lot of time and a lot of pride in that.
And I'm not ready with the numbers I've seen yet to be able to confidently be able to say that we'll be on time and on budget in those Phase 2s.
And so that's the biggest single biggest thing in terms of when we're ready to announce the next phase.
Frankly with respect to the lease-up of the first phases of both of them our leasing team and Chris is here and can probably add a little bit more color to it we're leasing Phase 2 now on both of them.
As obviously every retailer knows that they're not approved deals yet but that level of demand that allows him to have more conversations about Phase 2 leasing at this point is one of the single biggest reasons we're still bullish that there will be Phase 2 on both of those.
But you know Mike again until we're comfortable that we can get a real good handle on what that income statement is going to be and measure that against what it costs us to build it I'm not going to officially announce it.
So that's the real milestone.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then you mentioned the likelihood of 2 acquisitions at some point this year.
Can you give us a rough dollar amount of what that could be? It was in the number it was out of the number.
We pull it in we put it out and I'll tell you exactly why.
There's 2 acquisitions.
One's roughly 50.
The other one's roughly 200.
So the acquisition choices for what we will have this year are 0 50 200 or 250.
So that's not to be cute but one's the big one one's the smaller one.
And at the end of the day while we've got both of them under control we're still going to due diligence.
I want to make sure that we're getting what we've paid for and if we're not we ain't doing it.
So that's kind of where we are.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last question.
I think you said it was a mid 4 cap on the Pleasant Shop Sale.
What type of buyer was that? It's a petitional operating company.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> A few questions here.
First I mean while we're on the topic of the acquisitions are you expecting to fund these with this disposition proceeds line of credit or are you thinking about ATM or equity? Alex I'll have to tell you it's a little bit everything.
We've got some OP units in the mix some will be assumption of debt and there will be some cash components to it.
So it's a little bit of a mix of everything.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jim while you're talking if you can put on your old banker hat.
You've got light maturities in 2019 and 2021.
You also spoke about looking to refi some near-term expense of debt.
Are you of the type who wants to fill in vacancy low points on your maturity schedule? Or you prefer just to do push that up out as far as you can like your standard 10-year or maybe even contemplate doing longer issuance? I have to say it depends on the environment that you're in.
And if you think about where we are right now with the 30-year and frankly the flatness in the curve I think the responsible thing is to push things out as far as you can.
So rather than looking to neatly fill a particular hole in the maturity profile which we always have an eye on.
I think right now our bias is to go longer and improve our average weighted tenure.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the Clarion JV.
Is this -- is the Weymouth disposition the start of the wind down should we expect this venture to be liquidating in the near term? Or was this just a one-off sale and we shouldn't expect any other dispositions from that JV? I think at this point you should think about it as a one-off.
We have a great partnership with Clarion and I think we both concluded that it was time to harvest this particular asset.
And our next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking with that.
I was just curious at the mid 4 cap rate what was the -- what was your sort of growth expectations for that asset over the next couple of years? Yes we did see some growth in the asset below kind of where we would want for an asset in our portfolio but nothing exceptional.
Good quality assets no doubt but I think the most important thing from a data point perspective is that you're seeing a lot of capital chasing higher quality assets.
And this was a competitive process and I think the pricing here indicative of what really sophisticated institutions are willing to pay for higher-quality real estate.
Research Division</strong> And just on the acquisition side.
Just curious I know it's not been a focus for you guys but curious what you're thinking about the Houston market these days.
Is that something that might be of more interest to you? I wonder why you ask that Vince? Research Division</strong> I have no idea.
I'm just looking at holes in your portfolio.
I'm thinking well it's a good market.
If something happened to be available what do you think of the market? That's all.
Yes that's a very good question.
I can tell you that we've talked about it around here.
You probably will not see us involved in what you're referring to okay? So let me get that off the table right now.
But having said that I like Texas.
And I think Texas frankly we're in the middle of kind of figuring out whether kind of the historical boom bust nature of that market is something more in the past and whether it will be more of a stabilized market going in the future particularly Houston that way.
But if we did conclude that we want to get in it we would do it in such a way that wouldn't -- it would be a great asset or 2 or 3 or 5 that we were looking at there and it's probably not going to be with this transaction.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one last one.
Just in terms of the Chris Cole relationship just curious how or what is turning up in the New York New Jersey market for you? Well I'll tell you.
First of all just big picture.
Everything that we expected we're getting and more.
And Chris is partnering up with a couple of key members of our existing team and they will be doing for example the Darien redevelopment which is coming along pretty nicely in terms of where we are in paper and some early conversations with Stop &amp; Shop and CVS and don't know whether we get to where we need to get.
But nonetheless you should have seen the face I got from Weilminster when that came through.
But those conversations are starting to yield some possibilities.
And again that's a Chris Cole coupled with existing federal or historical federal people team to put that together so love that.
They've also looking harder to our Brick asset in Brick Township which is a big asset for us that kind of was on the periphery in terms of how it's been running out of Philadelphia.
And now with that local presence I think we're going to see some pretty good positive stuff coming out of there over the next few years.
So that relationship the acquisition the entire package there basically 1 year in is looking real good.
And then I would say that in terms of ancillary investment opportunities Chris has been great there as well.
So we couldn't be more pleased with that partnership.
Now he wants everything and he's not going to get his way but he's working hard.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan of MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Could you just -- you've talked about the junior anchor transitions and the third quarter impact.
I was just wondering if you can maybe quantify where you think occupancy might end up.
Is it going to be a third quarter and into the fourth quarter and year-end impact? And the same-store NOI is this a 50 basis point 100 basis point? I mean just a little bit of detail on what we should expect given kind of what you know is going to happen in the third quarter? I don't want to provide specific guidance in the quarter as a lot of it Paul as you know is driven by timing rent commencements and other things which sometimes move around by a week or 2 and that can have a significant impact.
But I did want and I'm glad you raised it I did want to highlight that we do expect some drag from this anchor vacancy in the quarter and it could be 10 20 40 50 basis points or more on the same-store impact but don't want to try to put too tight a range on that at this point because we still have a good bit of a quarter ahead of us.
Paul and Jim is right but it sounded a little too fluffy for me so I want to add something to it.
Nothing's draconian.
So don't -- I mean we're 94% 94.5% 95% occupied portfolio it's a damn good portfolio.
And even though we'll have some boxes that we're working through to create some additional value on it's still going to be in that range.
It's not -- nothing's falling off the cliff or I don't want you to -- it's really -- what we don't want you to do is to consider big occupancy improvements over that period of time since that really still is the name of the game in a lot of our competitors and it's still being talked about a lot that we are fully occupied generally.
So that's to me what you should expect from us.
The other element of that Paul is the fact that we are aggressively getting after space even ahead of what the ordinary maturity profile would suggest.
It's something we've always done and what you're seeing happen over these quarters clearly is with a view towards getting better long-term deals in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And the impact though is pretty much concentrated in the third quarter or did you already absorb some of the move outs in the second quarter? We did in the second quarter but it's more heavily weighted to the back-end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at Pike &amp; Rose Phase 2 I know you're going to provide more detail over the next couple of quarters but just maybe a little bit of a window there.
How are you thinking about whether you're going to do all of the Phase 2 yourself on the -- particularly on the resi side and whether kind of your experiences at PerSei have had any impact on that and quantifying a little bit any...
That's very -- it's a very good question.
And yes the experiences at PerSei have made us more bullish.
What's really interesting the bottom line is on these type of projects it is really really hard to get paid up top whether it's resi or office or hotel or whatever.
It's very hard to get paid for what we think the value is because we know what happens as these properties mature.
And I think we're seeing it at Assembly now.
I mean as far as we can tell the rents that Avalon is achieving are above where we forecast them at the time we were negotiating the price.
And so it's very very hard for either a residential developer or an office developer to basically pay up based on the plans that we have seen happened in places like Santana.
And so it's probable and when it's just 3 miles down from our -- on the map from our major office that we'll do it ourselves.
Now that's different when it comes to big office development but on the resi side we're pretty confident.
Research Division</strong> And should we think of the yields as being a little bit better even because you've done a fair amount of the infrastructure work that's kind of burdening Phase 1 or is that...
I mean that's exactly Paul what we're working through right now.
I can tell you they look about the same at this point.
So I'm pounding a little harder on the construction numbers and that kind of stuff.
That we will have a clearer picture as we lease more in PerSei and then even start leasing up in Pallas the bigger building there.
But I'd love to say that second phase yields will be dramatically better than the first phase.
I don't think we're underwriting -- not I don't think we're not.
It's going to be underwriting them as significantly better but yet still very very good and profitable vis-a-vis acquisition of...
Not only that great on an absolute basis.
The other thing to highlight much different from a risk profile standpoint as Don highlighted earlier as the first phase is in and we're moving forward with greater tenant demand in a proven location as evidenced by the residents that are already beginning to move in.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of Citi.
This is Katie McConnell [ph] on for Christy.
Can you talk about some of the volatility in your renewal spreads over the last 4 quarters and what might be a good run rate over the next year? One thing that we've always pointed to as we've seen some of these renewal spreads in the high-teens and low 20s is that as we look at it over a longer-term basis both new and renewal we expect that to kind of be in the mid teens as more of a run-rate basis with renewals or new leases higher and obviously renewals lower.
So that's kind of what we see on a longer-term basis.
But when you think about the volatility quarter-over-quarter you can have a few deals move things one way or the other.
And as I alluded to in my remarks I think the thing to really look at is to look at it over a trailing 4 6 or 8 quarters to see where we're signing these new rents relative to where the in place income is.
And the only thing I would add to that is just let's put our size in perspective.
I mean we're not Kimco we are not -- we do not have that volume.
And so we do about 400 deals a year about 100 deals a quarter both new and renewal.
And when you think about that type of population and 400 000 square feet roughly or so on an average quarter to do that 2 or 3 deals really positive or really negative move those numbers around.
So you'll absolutely have volatility with respect to the leasing spread on any particular quarter.
What I think you should -- I'd love you to look at though is how amazing it is that that volatility on a quarterly basis does not translate into volatility of our reported earnings.
It's really important when you take that metric and you get it down to overall what happens to this earnings stream it really shows that as Jimmy said over the past 4 6 8 quarters the stuff that really generates into the income stream in the subsequent year or 1.5 years or 2 years ahead really smooths out pretty amazingly.
So I don't know that's all I've got to say.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the different buckets of your portfolio.
I know they don't sit in nice discreet buckets but if you look at gross record and street retail and mixed-use and kind of your Tower Shops style power centers where do you see the greatest demand today? And historically where have you seen kind of the best growth from each of those asset classes? You've got a real -- you're hitting a real I don't want to call it a sore point for me but Jason I got to tell you I know you're going to think this is a cop out it's not.
It depends on the particular asset and how it is serving the community that it is in.
I mean when you look in the future back at power center at East Bay Bridge you're going to love the perspective that you see in terms of that income stream.
When you look at where the growth has come at kind of a hybrid center like a Congressional Plaza you're going to love that growth.
When you look at what I believe is going to happen at Assembly and that mixed-use project you're going to find great growth as you see at Santana.
It really and truly depends Jason.
And I know our whole industry loves to put the buck -- put in the buckets what's grocery what's outlet whatever.
Trumping all of those categories is location and how important it is to that community.
So I can't to do what you ask me to do in terms of laying that out.
You've got to get it down to the retail or to the local level and we've got good power centers bad power centers good gross reactor and bad gross reactor good mixed use tougher mixed use.
It truly does come down to that location.
I'm sorry that sounds like a cop out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No worries.
And then I guess second one for me would be as you look at your development and redevelopment buckets currently it's about 9% of assets once you complete all those.
Is there a ceiling that you feel comfortable getting to in terms of percent of your overall portfolio? Or is that just something on a case-by-case basis? Well yes there is a ceiling and it's not a hard line but it's about 10% or 10.5% 11% maybe tops.
The bottom line is and Jimmy said it in his comment our thesis here our proposition to investors is a growing stream of cash flows a steady growing stream of cash flows that you can count on that is less susceptible to typical risks than other portfolios.
So if that's our goal there's got to be a limit to how much in development at any one-time there is.
Now as that stuff gets put into service.
You think about -- people think that Santana Row is a development.
Santana Row is probably the most stable ongoing property in the portfolio.
So as -- it's been over 12 years.
So as these things move into service we don't consider them in the development bucket any longer and we look at the incremental piece the incremental phases like the Misora for example are now like the Lot 11 deal.
That's the development but it doesn't encompass the whole thing once we're in service and comfortable.
That's a long way of saying that 9% that 10% range that's about where we're comfortable putting capital to work in construction effectively.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Chris Lucas of Capital One securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Don just a follow-up sort of to that last question which is now that the Silver Line is actually opened and some of your neighbors at Pike 7 have laid out their plans how are you thinking about that opportunity in terms of the timeframe? Any adjustment to your thoughts now that we're actually opened? That's a great question Chris really.
I mean look one of the pieces of land that we have in this portfolio is sitting there at the new sewer line entrance effectively on Route 7 in Tyson's.
That property during all the mess that has been Tyson's over the past 5 7 years has performed amazingly well.
And that includes blocking off entrances constantly changing entrances constantly we view that [ph] as they went but did their thing and people just found their way into that shopping center and our rent has continued to go up in that shopping center and demand is as strong as ever.
Now where we are with that open and we've got basically 5 or 6 years left if you will on the existing leases in terms of when effectively we can get out because we locked them up about 4 years ago so that we've got through this period.
We're having constant conversations about what makes some sense.
Do we partner with our neighbors and look at a bigger project there which we've had some conversations about.
Nothing's gone to any significant level now.
I'm still struggling to tell you the truth with what it needs to be.
And when you look at the other development that's happening in Tyson's what makes sense there I'm still glad that we have 5 years left to kind of watch what's going on and what we'll wind up doing there will be it will -- I promise you it will not be a me too.
It will fill in a need that we see that's not being addressed somewhere else in itself.
That's where we are.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us a little more additional color just on the Davie Florida project in terms of what your thoughts are.
Is that small shop space you're trying to add? Is that a single anchor box? Is that several juniors? What's the addition there going to look like? I'm looking and smiling at Weilminster over there because he's got a great -- we got a great potential tenant.
And I'm going to leave it to him whether he's comfortable talking about that possibility yet for that expansion...
I'm not comfortable naming who the tenant is but I can tell you it is a grocery category tenant that is smaller in size and they will occupy a part of that 50 000 square foot development we're doing.
I think they'll be a great anchor to that development and we've got a tremendous amount of interest in the remaining space that's available about 30 000-plus square feet and I think our investors are going to be very happy with that being added to our portfolio.
I'll tell you what Chris it's been a -- when we bought Tower we bought Tower really because we thought there was a lot that we can do with the existing shopping center and given that location where it is in Davie we knew that if we were never able to develop 1 more square foot on the piece of land that it was going to be a really good investment.
But the bottom line is the whole thing encompasses almost 60 acres.
And the idea of the probability that we couldn't underwrite at the time of actually doing something additional was not underwriteable.
We've worked with lots of tenants who good [ph] In the center who have had to have very important things in their leases that could block that development.
And we're basically through almost all of them allowing us to say we've got a development there.
To the extent Chris is uncomfortable talking about the particular tenant I think most of you could figure out whom he's talking about.
But that really was a -- it's just a great add to the whole what is already a dominant center in the Forth Lauderdale Davie market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Jim one of the things we talked about when you were laying out guidance at the beginning of the year related to marketing spend at Assembly and at Pike &amp; Rose and I guess I just want to get an update in terms of how that spend has gone.
Has it been within sort of the timing and the size that you expected? And is there any surprises positive or negative that we would should expect from that in the second half of the year? We're on budget from an overall amount with what we expect to spend to open these projects in the right way Chris.
Timing we have had some movements between the second and third quarter in terms of some of that expense nothing too terribly significant.
The fundamental point though remains which is we're running all of that through our income statement.
We're investing if you will from an income perspective into our development and yet still driving some pretty meaningful growth.
These projects do require big investment to open them well.
And we're already seeing the fruits of some of that success early on at Assembly but would expect to continue to make investments as additional tenants opened as Don covered in his remarks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and my last question relates to the same-store apartment occupancy level is down 80 basis points year-over-year.
Is there anything we should be looking at in that number? Particularly is there some regional impact? Or is that just sort of a timing issues? Or is that -- what happened there? It's really just I think less than 10 units that threw that occupancy number.
No that resulting in Crest.
There's nothing unusual.
Just a couple units here and there.
I'm showing no further questions.
I'd like to hand the call back over to Kristina Lennox for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining the call today.
Have a great weekend and we look forward to seeing you in the conferences in the fall.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Brittany Schmelz.
You may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
They will be available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that were issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
These documents are available on our website at www.federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our third quarter 2014 results.
Don? Thanks Brittany.
Good morning everybody.
Lots of things are coming together for our company these days as evidenced by our reported results this quarter along with a very strong opening in Assembly Row in Massachusetts and our official decision to move forward with the next phase of Pike &amp; Rose.
More on the latter two in a minute.
Let's start with the quarter where FFO per share of $1.23 matched our second quarter result and beat last year by a solid 6% despite the inevitable drag of delivering big development projects.
Our core portfolio continues to be the cash flow horse with same-center growth of 3.3% when excluding the quarter-over-quarter effects of properties under redevelopment and 4.4% when including those properties.
That all happened with strong and consistent occupancy reflected at 94.7% this year versus 94.6% last year and that 94.7% reflects a sequential improvement over the second quarter of 40 basis points.
Personally I'd like to see those numbers rise into the 95% plus range over the next 12 months as we've moved -- pushed to improve the small shop numbers throughout the portfolio particularly in the Northeast and the Mid-Atlantic regions.
Leases signed during the quarter also bode well for future earnings growth as 108 deals were signed covering over 430 000 square feet.
90 of those deals were for comparable space and that is existing space where there was a previous tenant and those deals were signed at $35.69 a foot 13% better than the $31.55 a foot the previous tenant was paying in their final year of the lease.
The [indiscernible] comparable deals related primarily to Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose in addition to a few at expanded redevelopments like Tower Shops in Florida and Willow Lawn in Richmond and were written on average at nearly $40 a foot.
Sometimes given the appropriate focus on our large-scale developments we don't point out enough just how well our basic core expansion redevelopment business is performing.
That Tower Shops reference I made a minute ago represents a Trader Joe's deal at this center in Greater Fort Lauderdale that will anchor our 50 000 square foot expansion renovation.
We acquired Tower Shops a couple of years back and it's been a home run for us in terms of value creation.
The same can be said about Westgate Center in California acquired in 2004 where the re-merchandising of the center toward today's value oriented retailers like Nike Gap and J.Crew outlet concepts is revitalizing this extremely vibrant well-located property.
Our redevelopment effort also applies to properties that we've owned for decades that are going through their second and their third redevelopment iterations like Willow Lawn in Richmond and Quince Orchard in Gaithersburg Maryland.
Our bottom line is -- and I love our redevelopment business because it represents our active effort to keep our properties relevant in a changing consumer environment in addition to creating obvious incremental real estate value.
It's really hard to do that if the real estate is extremely well-located.
Okay.
Let me make a few comments about our large development initiatives and start with the announcement of the second phase of Pike &amp; Rose.
We didn't want to pull the trigger on this $200 million incremental investment in the property without a good read on the market's acceptance on the first phase and by all accounts we're very bullish.
Settle at that for a second.
That first phase is fully leased with respect to the retail component with strong demand for more.
It's 50% leased with respect to the office space with strong interest in documents changing hands on the remainder.
It's 75% leased on the third floor [ph] Financial building with potential tenants also expecting stronger than anticipated interest in condominium availability.
And we're moving along on schedule with respect to the big 319-unit high-rise building with lease-up expected to begin in the middle of next year.
In addition interest in all facets of future phases of this project has grown exponentially as people have been able to witness first-hand the execution of the first phase.
Nowhere has this been more evident than in the announcement we made a couple of weeks ago about the hotel deal that we signed.
We'll be bringing in one of Hilton's first newly conceived boutique lifestyle products.
They call it Canopy.
So Pike &amp; Rose just [indiscernible] outside of Washington D.C.
because it dovetails perfectly with Hilton's vision for the future.
And you've got to love that.
We've entered into a joint venture agreement with local hotel company Buccini/Pollin Group a preferred hotel developer where we'll be contributing the land plus $5 million in exchange for participating preferred return.
And so based on all that our board approved an incremental $200 million to continue to expand Pike &amp; Rose with 5 more buildings that will comprise an additional 185 000 square feet of retail bringing it to 336 000 when including Phase I; 264 additional luxury residential apartments; 177-room Canopy Hotel; and over 800 additional structured parking spaces.
That investment is expected to create a stabilized yield in the 7% to 8% range.
Higher construction cost and an additional land parcel on the site put some pressure on the yield but it still works incredibly well given our cost of capital and its future growth prospects.
Construction will begin in 2015 and is scheduled to deliver in 2017.
Check out Federal Realty's website for a current site plan of all Pike &amp; Rose's various spaces.
In addition we'll be building 104 for-sale residential condominiums on 7 floors above the hotel for a net gain [ph] of $50 million given the extremely high level of interest in this market for for-sale housing.
Net proceeds from the sale of those homes in excess of cost will start to reduce the basis in Phase II and improve the yield I talked about above by as much as 50 basis points.
Now let's move to Assembly Row and Somerville where we currently have 40 tenants open and operating with over 50 expected by year-end and where the initial feedback and performance has been nearly universally positive and strong.
As we understand it Avalon Bay will stay the same on the residential side.
In addition we signed our first lease in our first Phase I office building to Beverly Massachusetts-based software developer SmartBear for their 100-plus-person corporate headquarters relocation.
It's 33 000 square feet or 1/3 of the building which is right on the Mystic River.
We expect to have the balance of this space completely leased in 2015.
On the other end of the big 60-plus acre site the [indiscernible] has opened and operating and Partners Healthcare is well under construction and driving piles as it begins to build its 900 000 square foot administrative complex over the next couple of years.
The level of economic activity that is taking place on the site today was simply unfathomable a few years back.
Given this progress to date at the property and our view of the future for the greater Boston economy over the next decade we're tightening down numbers and plans now but barring a significant hiccup in the next several months we would anticipate an announcement of additional capital allocation for the next phase of Assembly Row next year.
Heading west we expect to begin construction in this fourth quarter with our previously announced 225 000 square foot 6-story Class A office building along with nearly 700 parking spaces in a garage below the building that will complement existing retail parking nights and weekends.
As a reminder total cost is estimated at $110 million to $120 million with a range of expected volumes that will put the stabilized yield in the 7.5% to 8.5% range.
Apple by the way is under construction on a brand new $1 billion campus just a few exits north on route 280 from our site where we are today.
Apple announced blockbuster results last week to serve as a reminder to us of the continuing strength of Silicon Valley.
We look forward to continue to capitalize on that dynamic economy with relevant retail and mixed-use product in and around Santana Row Westgate Center Old Town Los Gatos and other additions to come.
In Southern California construction of the $80 million Point lifestyle center in El Segundo moves along without drama but with strong pre-leasing and a physical presence at the corner of Rosecrans and Sepulveda that can now really start to be felt when you drive by that intersection.
The project remains on time and on budget for delivery next year.
I think I'll stop there and pause my prepared remarks and ask you to reflect a bit about the stability and predictability of these results despite a very aggressive and relatively volatile part of the business plan represented by large mixed-use development.
It's such a testament to the engine that is the core portfolio as well as the development and execution.
The balance inherent in this business plan is really the secret sauce to that continuing performance.
Now let me turn it over to Jim for his remarks on acquisitions dispositions earnings guidance and capital markets before we open the lines to your questions.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
As Don just covered the quarter's key financial operational results let me pause and deeply highlight again that this quarter's bottom line FFO per share at $1.23 not only matched last quarter's record which was up -- and is up 6% year-over-year importantly this bottom line growth was achieved with stable occupancy while we continue to invest in future growth.
A year ago at our Investor Day at Assembly we laid out for you a pipeline of $520 million approximately of value creation activity that we either have delivered or will be delivering over the next 12 months importantly on time and on budget.
And again through this period of significant investment in future growth we continue to deliver bottom line growth that's impressive for our sector.
Our margins have remained stable as well as our G&amp;A.
That disciplined growth and consistency is truly unmatched all while we achieved the key operational and development milestones that Don just highlighted.
Before turning to our outlook for the balance of this year and next let's look at our balance sheet as well as our acquisition and disposition pipeline.
During the quarter we raised $50 million under our ATM at an average price of $124.71.
We raised an additional $10 million from our sale of Pleasant Shops our asset owned in the JV with ING Clarion which sale we highlighted on last quarter's conference call.
We ended the quarter with approximately $24 million in cash and only $11 million drawn under our $600 million revolver.
From a leverage perspective our debt EBITDA remains low at 5.3x and our fixed charge coverage strong at 3.8x.
We still importantly have less than 1% of our debt floating and the stated interest rate on our debt maturing over the next 2 years is high at over 6.5%.
Given how favorable long-term rates are today we see this as an opportunity to repay some of this nearer-term maturity and significantly term out our debt at opportunistic rates.
Stay tuned but expect that we will capitalize on this environment in the very near term.
From an acquisition perspective we are scheduled to close later this quarter on the acquisition of a 375 000 square foot shopping center in Mountain View California.
This infill center which is anchored by Kohl's Trader Joe's and WalMart is adjacent to Caltrain on approximately 33 acres in a very vibrant area of Silicon Valley.
The average demos and density put this asset in the top quartile of our portfolio.
The near-term opportunity here includes rolling right to market and repositioning and retaining some of the shop and smaller cog space while the longer term opportunity includes adding additional density to the site which has been owned privately since it was built.
We negotiated this acquisition on an off-market basis for approximately $60 million at a current implied cap rate in the mid-5 range.
The acquisition will be funded through the assumption of approximately $20 million of debt and the balance in cash and operating in partnership units.
Importantly like the Metrovation portfolio we acquired earlier this year this Mountain View acquisition is a testament to the compelling liquidity and tax planning alternatives we provide to private owners of generational real estate.
Last quarter Don mentioned the $200 million shopping center that we have tied up.
We're still working through diligence and structuring issues and at this point the probability of closing is about 50/50.
Like Mountain View it is being negotiated on an off-market basis.
Beyond that we continue to evaluate a number of opportunities primarily located in our existing markets.
As most of you have heard pricing remains extremely robust.
To that end we have received first-round indications on the potential sale of our Houston Street asset in San Antonio which we are in the process of evaluating.
Expect more on this early next year.
Now turning to outlook.
We increased our 2014 guidance from a range of $4.90 to $4.94 to a range of $4.92 to $4.94.
This increase is in part due to less downtime on rollover in the third quarter on some larger spaces.
Importantly we've also included approximately $0.02 of transaction costs associated with the Mountain View acquisition in this range.
However we have not factored in any debt prepayment or interest costs associated with any early repayment of debt as the timing of that has not been determined.
For 2015 we've provided an initial guidance range of $5.26 to $5.33 per share or 7.5% growth at the midpoint.
Again stop and consider this type of growth that we're delivering or expect to deliver as we're also investing in a significant pipeline of value creation.
As usual much of our growth will be -- will come from our same-store portfolio which we again expect to grow in the mid-3% to 4% range including redevelopments on an occupancy neutral basis.
We have factored the impact of the Mountain View acquisition in our guidance range which we expect a lot of [indiscernible].
And from a G&amp;A perspective we expect to be slightly up to a range of $31 million to $32 million for the year.
As for the sale of Houston Street and its impact expect us to provide more of an update next quarter.
Now with respect to the development pipeline that we're delivering and in order to help you better model 2015 I'd like to provide some perspective on the openings of Phase I of [indiscernible] Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose and how it will impact us during the year.
Let's start in Rockville Maryland at Pike &amp; Rose where we delivered PerSei the 174-unit residential building in the third quarter of this year.
The building represents approximately $40 million as a first stage total investment and is above 75% leased and approximately 6% occupied.
We expect this building to stabilize during the first half of 2015.
The 140 000 square feet of retail in the PerSei has started delivering late -- in late September of this year with the opening of Del Frisco's Grille and the iPic movie theater which opened this week.
For those of you who haven't been to iPic please come I'll take you to see a movie.
It's great.
We expect the retail to be completely open by the middle of 2015.
Pallas the 319-unit luxury high-rise with Strathmore retail will open in mid-2015 and is expected to lease up over 18 months.
This building represents approximately $110 million of our Phase I investment.
On the office side the 80 000 square feet that we're delivering is currently 50% leased to Bank of America Merrill Lynch as previously announced.
We feel good about the remainder of that space and expect to be fully leased by late 2015.
Moving north to Assembly Row we're over 95% leased on the retail with 43 of the 59 retailers currently open and expect the remaining retailers to open by early 2015.
Based on these timing elements we expect to realize a little under half of the fully stabilized POI during 2015 for the first phases of Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly.
In addition as discussed in previous quarters we also expect to continue to invest significant marketing dollars as we open these important projects and deliver this value.
We are very excited by the important progress at both Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly projects that will provide significant opportunities for value creation and would set us well on our path to double our NOI in 10 years as we set forth at our Investor Day at Assembly last year.
To that end we plan to host an Investor Day at Pike &amp; Rose in early April next year.
So keep your eyes out for a save-the-date in the next few weeks.
Before I conclude my remarks let me say that we're very excited that Brittany Schmelz has joined us to fill the very large shoes left behind by Kristina.
We greatly appreciate all the contributions Kristina made and wish her well in her new role at Intelsat.
Brittany who played point guard at college and has a Master's in urban planning has gotten off to a great start.
She looks like she may be a keeper.
With that we look forward to seeing many of you next week at NAREIT.
And Operator I'd like to now turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim can you talk a little bit about the factors that are underlying your outlook for 2015? I think recently you had said that you thought NOI growth would accelerate next year.
And I guess I wanted to get a little more detail.
Well I think what I said Jeff was that we expected to see a little bit of a downtick in this quarter as we rolled some significant space.
As we look forward into 2015 we expect our NOI growth rate to be in that mid-4% -- mid-3s to 4% range which again is on an occupancy neutral basis.
Certainly if we are able to pick up some of the occupancy improvements that Don highlighted in the call we could be at the high end or above that range.
But really on a run rate basis when you consider our portfolio is close to fully occupied that's a reasonable level of expectation.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I don't want to leave Don out but Westgate -- out west is transitioning to maybe more of an outlet or discount orientation it seems like and somewhat similar to Assembly.
Do you see Federal having a bigger role in the outlet business? And maybe stepping back is your plan to sort of morph Federal into this diversified player in retail: grocery-anchored street retail mixed-use outlets? Do malls have a role at Federal? Let me get to the last part first.
Malls do not have a role at Federal.
And really it's a different business Jeff.
The -- I think I've said before we take a lot of pride in basically producing the right product for the particular environment they're in despite whether it's grocery-anchored or outlet-based or whatever else.
There is no question that having the well-located type of centers that we have -- and Westgate is a great example.
Westgate was an old mall.
And the notion of where that is going to service this community the community going forward you can't make it a good old mall.
It's an old mall.
So the idea of being able to take the demographics and the great location that we have and turn it into a value-based center where we have had great success with tenants like -- these tenants it's Gap outlet it's J.Crew outlet.
That's under construction right now.
The Nike outlet concept is open I was in it yesterday it's blowing it away.
It's about finding the right retail concepts for the locations that we're in.
But the mall business is a different business and it won't be for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one last question.
Out at Santana I don't know if Jeff is on but the rents you're achieving on Lot 8B the new residential units out there what do the rents you're achieving either in dollar terms or dollars per square foot tell you about the potential for the in-place residential authority there? Is there sort of an embedded upside? Do you see them sort of revealing that to you? Yes Jeff we have and continue to see a really strong demand across all the product here.
You look at Misora and clearly that's the top of the market the newest freshest stuff which is getting rents north of $3 a foot.
And if you remember too we still have a fair number of units were built now nearly 10 years ago.
And those units are very well occupied and we've been able to drive rents in that product as well.
Given the success at Levare given the success of Misora you'll see us next year and probably trickling into '16 look at doing some upgrades on our older product to capture that rent potential.
Jeff let me add one more a little bit more color to it.
We're taking this call right know the whole management team is at Santana.
We're sitting in a conference room there because our board meeting was out here over the last couple of days.
And I was going through Misora yesterday.
I was going through it with the residential-leasing person who has been here 10 years.
She lives here.
And she basically -- she blew me away.
She could sell anything because she knows the place so well.
She knows the 3 or 4 different residential type products that we have here.
She is amazingly optimistic based on what is happening with the Street and what's happening in the economy together and it really does get to the point.
If you haven't been to Santana in a while take a trip.
It's really compelling.
And what it really does say is in these type of projects if you do them right if you continue to work them the benefit the premium to live here or to office here is -- it's real.
We did just sign an office lease here with Avalon Bay.
We're 100% leased in our office space.
And Avalon Bay is putting their west -- I think it's their western region headquarters here.
A very strong market number to be here.
It's all here because of the environment.
It really works if you do it right.
The upside continues.
Our next question comes from Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question follow-up on Phase II of Pike &amp; Rose.
I was wondering how you walk through the -- I know it's a cohesive project and it's hard to strip things out but when you look at the hotel and -- I was just trying to figure out how you underwrite those and what some of the assumptions are and just how you get comfortable with adding those various moving pieces to this project? Yes.
Jason it's a very good question and I'm going to let Jimmy go through specifics with you in a minute if that's helpful.
But the basic concept we're putting together these environments there's no question in our mind that it is the mix of uses working together that creates the upside at a premium above what normally happens with these uses separately.
A vibrant hotel in the middle of one of these projects is a clear clear positive.
Now we're not in the hotel business so we need to figure out how to underwrite it and how to mitigate that risk.
And I'm going to talk about that with the structure in a second.
The same thing on for-sale housing.
We're not in the for-sale housing business per se.
But to the extent we could on a risk-adjusted basis include those elements into the overall basic business of retail and renting apartments that we think we do pretty darn well we really enhance the ability to get paid on the other uses.
So it does come down to the structure of the uses that we don't know as well.
And I'll let Jimmy take it from there.
Yes.
Jason when you consider as Don highlighted in his remarks our investment in the hotel of approximately $5 million that's in a venture with Buccini/Pollin who is one of Hilton's leading developers very well-established and successful hotel developer and operator.
But what we thought was important is that we do get to participate through this investment which is in a preferred structure in the ultimate success of the hotel which we think it will be very successful given the lack of truly comparable product in Montgomery County.
But in terms of its relative investment in the overall project it's smaller for the -- some of the reasons that your questions imply.
But we're excited and we think it will fit well within what we're delivering.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then I guess one other question on your Assembly resi that Assembly -- or that Avalon is working on right now.
I think they disclosed some leasing velocity in their earnings announcement.
Looked like the prior period had really good velocity and then this last period had weaker-than-expected velocity.
Is there anything going on there that's unique or maybe you can talk about your thoughts on Phase II adding resi yourself based on their experience so far? The overall experience on resi up there clearly has me envious.
And when I take a look at any -- there is no trend in a month here or a quarter here et cetera with respect to leasing velocity.
The -- it's Boston and the season is changing.
And so I'm sure that's part of what's happening in that second building.
Remember they had 2 buildings there.
The first one is done.
And so you saw that initial lease-up in that first building that was really spectacular and as I said makes me a little envious.
The second building that is there is really just being delivered and just getting started now.
So I would expect them to have nothing to worry about as you get into next year.
But it's certainly not because of a strong in one period and then weaker in the next.
If you were there and you kind of saw how it played out you would understand our optimism.
When we fit out and we think about the next phase that we're talking about right now we do expect residential as we've said in the past additional residential in that second phase.
We absolutely believe that market will be very deep for residential demand.
And so there'll be some phase of residential.
But we want that streak to be longer.
We want the retail environment to be deeper than it is today.
And even what it is today is outperforming what we had in terms of expectations.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan with MLV.
Research Division</strong> The Mountain View deal I just wanted to follow that a little bit more.
I'm sure we'll hear more about it in the future but can you just give a little color -- I mean also congratulations on that.
Obviously there's the big mixed-use project right next to it.
How -- I mean how do you see that as an investment? I mean what's your kind of short-term versus longer-term plans there and the opportunity for densifying that? Take it Jeff.
Yes.
I mean Paul you know the area real well and obviously you know the property next door that was developed by Ramone and Guirre [ph] that was built at a much much higher density level than the property we're acquiring.
And they've got a second phase to do there where they're going to add more residential and more office space.
So that whole node is just kind of the heart of Silicon Valley right now if you will.
And short term we've got some -- a little bit of leasing to do at the property.
There's a couple of vacancies.
But we'll be working with the City of Mountain View to set the property up long term to match what's going on in the rest of the neighborhood.
Obviously we have existing leases that we have to deal with.
So the timing of all that is not clear and could be out there a ways.
But as we've experienced in the rest of our portfolio you never know when things like that will change.
And if they do we'll be in a position to take advantage of it because it's just an outstanding location.
It's like Jim said close to Caltrain not far from Google's headquarters it's right at the corner of where Los Altos Palo Alto and Mountain View meet.
So location couldn't be better.
Paul I have to tell you one other thing.
How many times are we talking about building what it is that we do in the mixed-use basis and then having all the adjacent landlords effectively benefit as a result of that and God if we only knew more.
Here we are in a situation where it's reversed.
And I think you know Ramone and Guirre [ph] out here.
These guys do a great job.
And they've done a fine job in their first phase.
They will I assume be able to continue and finish that up as Jeff had said.
And that can only be great news for the benefit to that -- north of the property that we are adjacent to.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And now going to the other coast with the metro now going to Tyson's and kind of Pike 7 is still sitting there in your long-term redevelopment pipeline have you spent a lot of time there since the metro opening? Thoughts on what might happen over the next couple of years at Pike 7? Yes.
There's a number -- there's a lot of things we're thinking about.
It is awesome to have the metro going there.
We're watching numbers by the way month by month to see what's playing out.
As I think I've said here in the past we didn't want to be first to the game at Pike 7.
What was really needed in that community was a nice big parking lot in front of a traditional shopping center.
And that's worked out really well for us.
As you see it grow now and as we'll be -- as we're looking at it we do have adjacent property owners and ironically Avalon is one of them in the back that if we put those 2 pieces together might be even a more compelling type of project going forward.
We don't know whether there will be a deal there but it's one of the things we're looking at.
If not simply on the existing property because of where that metro stop stops there will clearly be more density but we can't tell you too much more about that yet.
We've still got some years left in the leases that are there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on -- a bigger picture has been a ramp-up in M&amp;A recently in the space and you've over the years explored opportunities.
And just wondering if -- the retail REITs have made a lot of progress a lot of them over the past number of years at pruning their portfolios making them higher-quality whether you think that as those programs get closer to fruition we might see kind of a continued stream of M&amp;A and whether you think that it might get more appetizing for you looking at other companies given that they're making this progress? Always possible but I wouldn't count on it.
When you think about capital allocation decisions which is certainly what that is in the biggest way it's fantastic to be able to have controlled lands and controlled opportunities that we've got for years and years to come.
So sure if something were compelling I know I've been looking for 15 years I know I haven't found anything in a significant way that's compelling.
So underwrite that low.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Christy McElroy.
This is Katy McConnell on for Christy.
Just another follow up on Pike &amp; Rose.
How are you thinking about the timing of construction and delivery of each of the different components for Phase II? As you think about Phase II we're really looking at late 2016 early 2017 delivery.
Much larger retail component in that phase Katy.
And from a staging perspective we're going to be delivering more of that concurrently so that we continue the Main Street Grand Park Avenue there following on what we're doing in Phase I.
So we -- in Phase I of course we'll be delivering Pallas a high-rise residential building middle of next year and then obviously working towards the delivery of Building 6 and 7 some of the ancillary retail buildings on the street again for later delivery in 2016 and early 2017.
Our next question comes from Ryan Peterson with Sandler O'Neill.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on the -- where you're at in the South Florida market with cap rates continuing to compress there.
Are you guys thinking about increasing your scale or is -- any thoughts changed on how you're handling that market? No.
No thought to change.
In fact I'd love to increase our scale there with the right type of products.
But as you say it's hard to make deals that make sense.
We've said I don't know if you heard in the prepared remarks that I went through but I really did try to highlight Tower Shops just outside of Fort Lauderdale because of demand exceeding supply on the -- on that -- in that particular node on that type of property a large property.
And we'd love to have a few more of those.
There's a couple of things that we're looking at right now.
But prices are high so it's got to make some sense for us.
Okay.
And then one other question on a different note.
A lot of your peers over the past couple of days have talked about mall tenants and outlet tenants coming into some of their centers.
Just wanted to get your general thoughts on whether you think those kind of outlet versus full-priced tenants and whether they can coexist in the same centers together? There's no question in my mind they can.
There's no question in my mind.
Now listen every retailer has got their business plan.
And certainly when you talk about those outlet tenants we just have experienced at Westgate.
Nike will be there with Gap.
Gap will be there with J.Crew.
They clearly like to work together.
But in that center which also has a big Target which has Ross which has Old Navy which has Burlington Coat which has Nordstrom Rack when you think of how they all work together -- there are also full priced small shop tenants in there.
It can work together.
But it depends on the particular environment and really what their choices are in the marketplace.
If you've got a hole in the market there's much more openness to be able to -- from those retailers to be able to do a deal where historically they weren't.
Yes.
And it's really all about location in that area right? There's 200 000 people within 3 miles of Westgate.
And Westgate is not that far from Santana Row and Valley Fair which is the dominant full price shopping there in this trade area.
Yet we've been successful positioning Westgate to be the value alternative.
And you can't do that everywhere You can only do that where you've got this kind of population density and $100 000 a year average household income in that 3-mile radius.
So it is very location-dependent.
Just keep that in mind as you think through that across the country.
Our next question comes from Chris Lucas with Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Don just maybe if you could give us a little bit of feel for how you're thinking about the new apartment project at Phase II at Pike &amp; Rose relative to PerSei and Pallas and sort of how you're thinking about the market niche that that particular building will be looking to penetrate? Yes.
It's a great question and I did say somewhere along the line in this call earlier I was talking about Santana and the 3 very -- 3 or 4 very different types of products here and how they work together and aspirationally help.
A resident who comes into one of our products looks to -- if they like where the environment is they'd love to step up to something a little bit more expensive or move it along as they go.
When you think about Pike &amp; Rose the PerSei building that we're leasing up very well now there is a -- it's a luxury product but it's not the high-rise.
The high-rise is a different type of living experience and that's what the -- that's the next thing up.
When you get to the second phase and we look at the product that's going there it will be right on the street.
It will be right in the center of the product.
It will be directly across the street from the hotel and condos on top of that hotel with retail.
So it will be in the center of the action.
Some people like that; some people don't like that.
The ability to create enough balance between different product types on the entire site is the key to making it all work out.
So while they're similar they're located differently they feel a little bit differently their height is different.
But it's all going to be upper-middle product if you will.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then and maybe just taking a step back on the demand and really the lease terms that you're writing for leases today versus maybe a year ago where is the -- where are the escalators running at this point for your small shop space? It depends.
I mean we target and we get in over half of our leases 3% bumps.
3% annual bumps is a big deal.
Does everybody try to stop and negotiate too or something different? Of course they do.
But in the small shops in well-anchored shopping centers that we have we're still largely able to get that.
That hasn't changed very much at all.
The biggest push from tenants the biggest change over the years and it's something that we think about and work on hard is the capital requirements.
There is no doubt that any well-capitalized tenant -- anybody who doesn't need money wants money from the landlord.
And so we battle that.
It's not nearly as much as the bumps at least from my perspective as it is the capital contribution.
And we're not going to invest in anybody who we don't see a future in.
So that's partly a credit decision too.
Big part.
I'm not showing any further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back to Brittany Schmelz for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
We look forward to seeing you next week at NAREIT.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust Q4 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference call Ms.
Brittany Schmelz.
You may begin ma'am.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's fourth quarter and year-end 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
They will be available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
In addition to our fourth quarter and year-end 2014 supplemental disclosure package we filed our 10-K yesterday.
Both documents will provide you with significant amount valuable information with respect to the Trust 2014 operating and financial performance.
They are both currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed in this call may begin to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions.
Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and cost of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that were issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
These documents are available on our website at www.federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our fourth quarter and year-end 2014 results.
Don? Thanks Brittany.
Good morning everyone.
Looking forward to seeing all or - most of you in a few weeks to Citi Conference in Florida so its more about our company and our industry and I want to thank you for joining us on the call this morning.
Well 2014 is in the books it was the best year weve ever had and by wide margin.
I want to start by putting some context around the $4.94 per share or 7.2% year-over-year FFO growth that we just reported.
As follows 7% year-over-year growth a year ago in 2013 and 7.7% two years ago in 2012 and keep us right on track double our income in 10 years that you will remember was the plan we laid out on our Investor Day at Assembly Row in 2013.
The consistency of this performance continues for me to be one of the thing that most proud of.
Seems to me that over the years more and more investors everyday have come the value of that consistency and sustainability in the business that seems to be changing more and more every day.
Its particularly noteworthy in 2014 because of the way in which it was accomplished.
Research and development investments for the future usually detract from current earnings.
I think drugs R&amp;D in the pharmaceutical business or technology R&amp;D in Amazon but the objective is to ensure competitive advantage long into the future.
In our business that R&amp;D is the development of marketing and the investment in top human capital that is focused on creating new state-of-the-art retail product that we believe will keep us on the forefront of our industry for decades not just quarters.
Whether that takes the form of the first of its kind large scale outlet entertainment restaurant mixed-use community like Assembly Row or whether it takes the form of the transformation of a pedestrian Strip Centre like Mid-Pike Plaza into a multi-phased mixed-use placed to be like Pike &amp; Rose.
Like whether it takes the form of niche 48 unit active living residential building that we were researched that are now building in the back of Congressional Plaza.
We couldnt be more proud of our R&amp;D if you will.
Even though the initial design construction lease-up and marketing did dilute earnings in 2014 and well again in 2015.
In fact our FFO per share growth would have been double-digit without them of course our future wouldnt be nearly as bright and our 10 year plan would be far or less short too.
I hope we always have us active in R&amp;D pipeline as we do today.
I know we will for the next few years.
I think it sets us apart in a retail real estate business that is looking more and more generic and still going for ways to grow.
Let me now go though some of the major accomplishments of the fourth quarter and the year.
First on the operating side in addition of 7.2% FFO per share growth for the year we grew at 8.5% for the fourth quarter when excluding the early extinguishment of debt in both quarters.
Same store growth was strong in the quarter and the year 4.5% to 5% in quarter 4.1% for the year including redevelopment which by the way is what this business plan is all about.
Our portfolio of that was 95.6% leased and 94.7% occupied at the end of 2014 right where it was at the end of the third quarter.
Leasing was exceptionally strong 83% deals were signed covering 340 000 square feet 70 of those deals were for comparable space that is existing space when it was previous tenant and those deals were signed at $33.27 a foot.
20% better than the $27.76 the previous tenant was paying in their final year of lease.
The 13 non-comparable deals related primarily to the lease up of the point at Plaza El Segundo in California.
One of the drivers of the quarters leasing results included the repositioning of Crow Canyon shopping Centre in San Ramon California where an underperforming lucky food store was replaced with a new Sprouts specialty grocer and a Orchard Supply Hardware store.
Those deals followed on a new sports authority deal replacing a bankrupt Loehmann's earlier in the year and the buyout for an owners ground lease to give us full control of the shopping centre.
You could conservatively figure that this shopping centre is worth $35 million more net of the capital that was invested than it was before these actions.
The other driver of those leasing results was the renewal of a couple of bank pads as significantly more rent than they had been paying.
You know with all the talk and worry about changes in the consumer banking practices and the real estate needs.
Myself included among the worriers this part of our business has remained remarkably strong.
The testament to the continuing importance to banks of attracting customer deposits in important real estate locations.
Okay some more things I would like to talk about before turning it over to Jim.
The development updates on Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose the Point and Santana Row and some organizational shifts and new hires that give us the best chance of maximizing our potential.
Jim will cover acquisitions and disposition.
So on the development lets start with a sample.
The Greater Boston Community has clearly embraced the first phase of Assembly Row even if its buried in snow at the moment.
The retail is 97% leased with 53 tenants opened and operating most doing rather than either they or we had planned and that includes the anchor system comprised the LEGOLAND Discovery Centre the AMC Theatre Saks Fifth and the Restaurant who are all outperforming.
In the office building software developer SmartBear moved into their space a couple of weeks ago.
Weve signed ROI with a digital media software company and lots of action on remaining 4.5 weve seen dramatic improvement in the sales of the adjacent power centre that we call Assembly Square Marketplace and we fully expect to improve its merchandising and profitability in the next 12 to 18 months a direct result of success of the Row.
Were also happy to report that the Partners HealthCare construction is on pace for occupancy that will begin in late 2016.
Concrete is being poured and T-stop is operating as expected.
The impact of this first six or eight months strong opening in Assembly is a faster ramp to a 6% unlevered view and then beyond than we had anticipated just a year ago Its very gratifying.
Were just about done with design and planning for the next phase of Assembly which will include a continuation of the retail street residential above a partnership with the Boutique Hotel operator and a street connection with a partner site.
Cost need to be finalized a G&amp;P contract negotiated and other deal terms agreed to where we hope to be able to announce the required approvals to move ahead on our next call.
Last word on Assembly is to recognize the passing of our General Manager Russ Joyner last month.
Truly one of the great guys in our business the successful launch in this community was in no small part due to Russs commitment we will miss him.
At Pike &amp; Rose lots and lots of onsite construction in these dates as we broken ground on the next $250 million that we announced on this call last fall while at the same time we complete construction on that last building in phase 1 over the next few months that means that two years from now well have over $510 million deployed before selling a 100 condos that is.
On this site in 9 buildings 360 000 feet of retail space 750 residential apartments 100 Condos 80 000 feet of Merrill Lynch anchored office a 175 room Canopy Hotel and nearly 2 000 parking spaces.
On stabilization that investment should yield between a 7% and 8% unlevered return and well still have much much more to do on this site.
Let me bring you up to speed on where we are right now.
And as I mentioned earlier construction is few months from completion on the high-rise residential tower we call Palace.
And we expect to begin leasing as planned in next quarter.
Timing is great because our residential building called PerSei is now 95% leased.
A bit disappointing to us in the short-term are the average rents we filled the building up with the first time around.
They are about 9% less than we had underwritten in part due to the heavy construction during the entire lease up period on the site and also due to lots of supply coming on the market at one time.
As a result we decided to lower our underwritten rent expectations on the high-rise a bit and when combined with some additional scope on the site wide infrastructure that we now planed.
We thought it prudent to reduce unlevered yield expectations on the first phase to the 7% to 8% range.
The nice thing about residential leases is that they are generally 12 months long and so well get lots of opportunities to reprice as Pike &amp; Rose matures and construction becomes more isolated.
If Santana Row is any guide we will more than make up for that over time.
Every bit of feedback that we get on this project improves our confidence about the regions need for destination like Pike &amp; Rose.
And as particularly evident in the retail environment we are creating.
The Phase I retail is fully leased and has led by the extremely successful opening of iPic a luxury theatre experience that is soundly beating its and our expectations.
No other iPic location has seen this level of success in its first 100 days of operation.
Out west construction and leasing on our addition to the Plaza El Segundo shopping node with a 115 000 square-foot lifestyle centre called the Point continues on budget and on schedule with tenants beginning to open this summer.
Check it out when you are in a L.A.
its only three miles South of LAX on Sepulveda at Rosecrans.
And at Santana construction is underway on our $115 million 225 000 square-foot office building with nearly 700 parking spaces on Winchester Boulevard at Olsen Avenue.
Its being marketed as 500 Santana Row and will follow on the 125 000 square-feet of office base that already exist elsewhere at Santana Row.
That office base is fully leased and has some very strong rents.
The continued explosion of the Silicon Valley economy the strong job growth and a growing reputation of Santana Row add the very desirable office address as is very bullish about doing deals in this state-of-the art building over its 18 month construction period.
All of which leads me to last topic from my prepared remarks and thats our team and organizational setup.
We are clearly playing more aggressive offense these days and growing our overall real estate holdings pretty meaningfully given this very substantial development platform.
Accordingly we are consolidating our development efforts under newly promoted Executive Vice President Don Briggs.
Many of you know Don is the guys primarily responsible for design and execution of Assembly.
We are doing this to assure and we prioritize and allocate our formidable development talent across all opportunities of the company best on the best  best risk adjusted determination of likely value creation.
Don has been with us for over 15 years and represents one of the countrys most experience and most respected mixed-use developers.
He will report directly to me as well a new position that weve just announced aimed at maximizing our residential profitability.
You may have seen in our press release last month about Mike Ennes who comes to us from Hilton worldwide and will join the team next month as Vice President of Residential Operations and Branding.
Weve learned a lot and made a lot of money from the residential product that weve been offering at Santana Row over the last decade.
Bethesda Row Congressional Pike &amp; Rose and soon Assembly need to benefit similarly with simplify comfortably that higher end residential product in the successful mixed use environment requires a quarter back one that can oversee our third-party residential managers while at the same time understanding capitalizing on and integrating the different uses to provide a better residential service in private model thats development we are taking a different approach to operations while we are consolidating and centralizing our developing group in residential oversight we decentralizing our East Coast operating group and breaking it up a little differentially.
The West Coast already operates on decentralized basis under Executive Vice President Jeff Berkes and now well be dividing up our East Coast portfolio between our mixed-use division and our foundational core shopping centre division.
Our mixed-use division will be run by newly promoted Senior Vice President John Hendrickson who has been running our North East Region for the last seven years out of our Suburban Philadelphia office.
John will relocate to Federal headquarters in Maryland in the next several months.
In terms of leadership of the core shopping centre division we feel like this is a great opportunity to add a senior level shopping centre operator to our executive team there is a lot going on at the company these days more than ever before and the creation of a new position to lead and grow the core shopping centre division give us the chance to expand our senior team.
Accordingly we have instituted a search that Dawn Becker and I will be leading for a new Senior VP at the Core Shopping centre division that division will include over 60 properties spanning from Boston to Florida and oversee nearly $300 million of property level income.
We would expect to identify the executives in the next several months.
These changes and the organizations below them recognized a changing real estate landscape and better align our company to take advantage of it in a most productive way.
Frankly I couldnt be more excited.
Thats all Ive got for prepared remarks let me now turn it over to Jim and look forward to taking your questions after that.
Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
As Don highlighted our bottom-line results for both the quarter and the year represented yet another record of the Trust.
As usual a large driver was growth in the quarter which grew over 4% including redevelopment while occupancy remains flat.
Our results also reflected the successful integration of The Grove and Brook 35 acquisitions made earlier in the year both of which outperformed our initial underwritings.
A true testament to our partner Chris Cole and the team he has brought on Board.
This year as Don also highlighted we overcame several cents of drag from the openings of Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose the initial phases of which have now successfully delivered as Don has discussed in depth.
Our balanced business plan continues to deliver bottom-line results while we invest in future growth.
Value that we are delivering today that will continue to deliver in the future.
In addition theres a larger multi-phase multiyear projects at Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly we should also highlight that we delivered over $90 million of redevelopments during the year at assets like Ellisburg Santana Row Barracks Road and Hollywood is very attractive returns.
In addition of these projects we continue to expand and execute upon a redevelopment pipeline of over $290 million of redevelopments like The Point at Plaza El Segundo Westgate and even a new 48 unit apartment building thats being built as we speak right behind this conference room.
In addition to successfully integrating The Grove and Brook 35 acquisitions we also closed last month on the acquisition of San Antonio centre in Mountain View California which we announced on our last quarters call.
We couldnt be more excited about the potential for additional value creation at this phenomenal location which comprises 33 acres in one of the most dense and affluent areas of Silicon Valley.
This transaction which was sourced off-market and structured on the tax preferred basis truly to provide the type of acquisitions remains focused on executing.
While asset pricing remains very high against the backdrop of record low interest rates we continue to actively pursue a few opportunities like San Antonio centre where importantly we believe that there is value to be added over time.
We hope that further updates on our next call but you can expect us to remain disciplined and focused on unearthing the right opportunities that fit our business plan.
Turning to the balance sheet we successfully raised $250 million of 4.5% 30 year notes in November and used about $200 million of those proceeds to pay off our 565 senior notes in our $61 million mortgage on East Bay Bridge.
In so doing we brought down the weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt and importantly increased our weighted average maturity by little over three years.
We ended the year with $47 million of cash and nothing drawn under our $600 million revolver.
This provides us with more than adequate capacity to fund our remaining development activity without having the access to capital market.
Of course with rates recently testing all time lows we remain well-positioned opportunistically access this market to further term out our near-term maturities and fund our development pipeline stay tuned.
Turning to guidance we have maintained our range given last quarter $526 to $534.
For those of you who have accused us of being sandbaggers and automatically move to the top of the range allow me to offer some insights on why we gave the larger than usual range and the factors that will influence where we end up in that range.
First the potential sale of Houston Street assets in Texas which we are close to having under contract as I mentioned on last quarters call the sale is not included in our guidance but will be approximately $0.33 [ph] diluted depending on the timing of the closing and how quickly we can redeploy the proceeds from the sale of this slower growing asset.
We will update you at that situation progresses.
Second given a timing of the San Antonio Centre closing occurring this past January versus December we incurred an additional $1.5 transaction cost this year.
While we typically have cushion for such cost in any given year we do hope to incur additional transaction costs in other opportunities that we are pursuing some of which may be incurred prior to closing anything.
Third weve made a strategic decision to continue to invest in R&amp;D as Don put in investing in our people and our platform so that we can responsibly scale into this massive pipeline of value creation that we have underway.
As you would expect from us we will not sacrifice the long-term for a few pennies in the short-term.
I believe that we have most of this investment covered in our numbers the transactional costs and other one-time expenses could also impact our numbers by $2 or $2.
Finally on the investment side we will always aggressively pursue near-term rollover and the related temporary decline in occupancy to create long-term value.
It is always been a core tenant of our business plan and always well needs [ph] its not a new initiative for us.
However with recent announcements like to potential Staples Office Depot merger in the recent chapter 11 filing of RadioShack in addition to opportunities at Assembly's tower centre that have become more real in light of Assemblys amazing opening performance.
We may get the chance to generate some real long-term re-tenanting opportunities.
Too early to tell what the extent the impact will be in 2015 but again we will keep you posted.
Turning again to the larger timing assumptions factored into our guidance we expect to deliver approximately $375 million in development and redevelopment this year.
Some of the more significant deliveries includes approximately $80 million of offset space to Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly which is been delivered in the first and second quarter of this year.
We've conservatively underwritten 2016 rent starts and hope to beat those with the final lease-up.
Approximately 77% of the retail Pike &amp; Roses delivered has occupied which includes the iPic Theater Del Friscos Summer House City Sports and Sport &amp; Health among others.
Now to the retail space which is 95% lease well continue to open as planned through the middle of this year.
Pallas the 319-unit luxury high-rise of Pike &amp; Rose which represents approximately $110 million of investment is slated to open this summer and is expected to lease up over the following 18 months.
Finally we expect The Point redevelopment at Plaza El Segundo which represents approximately $80 of investment is slated to open this mid-summer and stabilize in early 2016.
Given this timing we expect our quarterly FFO to start lower in the first quarter and ramp significantly during the course of the year versus being flat.
From a capital standpoint again we expect to find approximately $300 million of development and redevelopment expenditures through long-term debt our ATM and our line of credit.
As mentioned earlier we remain opportunistic as it relates to rates and well always look to ways in this environment to term out maturities and reduce our weighted average debt cost.
In closing we have a lot of great opportunities delivering now for the longer term and could be more excited about how we continue to execute upon that business plan.
That we laid out for you in 2013.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the Wells Fargo and Citi conferences in the coming weeks.
And with that operator wed like to turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christy McElroy with Citi.
Hi good morning guys.
Just wanted to follow up on Pike &amp; Rose Phase 1 if I look at the midpoint of the new total cost and projected return assumptions I get to about an annualized NOI of roughly $20 million as stabilization or about $5 million on a quarterly basis.
Just thinking about sort of the retail and apartments that are currently online I think youve mentioned per se is 95% leased and the retail is 77% leased.
How much of that in NOI flowed through Q4 results? On a Q4 basis not a significant amount and remember the reason is that we continue to invest a lot in marketing plus we were leasing that apartment building up and experience related operating drag associated with that.
We expect Christy that to continue through 2015 because importantly well be delivering $110 million of the first phase is represented by building 10 which will open in the summer.
We continue to spend a significant amount of marketing dollars if this project opens and we expect building 10 then to stabilize over the following 18 months.
Okay.
And then just regarding your  the decentralization of operations on the East Coast maybe you could talk a little bit about the impact on leasing functions between the mixed-use and core shopping centre portfolios  how the leasing process will change if at all with this new structure? And then Jim to your point on guidance is there any incremental G&amp;A associated with the change? Yes Christy thanks a lot of asking me about that.
What weve been doing for the last five years really since the recession hit is really doing some very very good blocking and tackling.
And we divided the portfolio of between Northeast and Mid-Atlantic.
The problem with that as you get into a more aggressive offensive posture is that what were delivering on the mixed-use stuff takes a lot of time its hard and the skill set on the leasing side is a different skill set that it is on the core shopping centre side.
So being able to align that lease with specific management for those properties we see is a real positive on both mixed-use and what it should do to the core.
Because there is a lot more  it doesnt allow distractions between properties that do take more time  that do  have different skill set associated with them and the core which is the horse and the thing that allow them to keep going.
So this is an alignment of leasing with the management of each of those divisions that  I doubt it will have a significant impact in 2015 but we are resetting this up for the long-term where we are going over the next 10 years.
So better alignment is what its all about it will not change the leasing process it will focus the leasing personnel more with their operating count of point.
And Christy to answer your question about guidance I think we are covered with in the range for the additional cost that we expect.
But again there could be some transitional cost or other things that we dont yet have forecast as we bring in the new COO for the core.
Okay.
And then Jim you also mentioned ATM issuance to fund redevelopment spend is there anything embedded in your guidance for ATM issuance in 2015? There is we expect as we have in the past to continue - to responsibly fund our development long-term.
And that includes the balance ATM issuance and long-term debt and as you see we just did last quarter.
We are encouraged by were rates are generally and look to push things out responsibly from a term perspective.
So how should we think about total proceeds for 2015 from ATM? Yes it tends a bit on after sales but that expected to be in the $100 million range.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Good morning guys.
Don maybe to build on Christy's question about just changing around management what are your thoughts on planning for succession at a trend level -- maybe the industry's ability to generate good leaders? Because several of your peers have faced the prospect of finding a new CEO and I think investors out there have been surprised at sometimes I guess let's say how shallow the pool is that people can choose from.
I was curious what your thoughts were? Well.
Jeff let me make a couple of comments first of all I think its an awesome question because I dont think its a small wheel theres $10 billion in equity in this company and certainly investors in this company ought to have an understanding of what happens to if Im not in this border or whatever else.
And I can tell you we treat this really seriously so that every year there is an in-depth part of our Board meeting theres a discussion about this.
We have put in an interim plan in case anything happens quickly with me in terms of how the Board would  what people would take over things et cetera which is really important to have as an interim plan.
Whats more importantly in terms of a long range plan I can tell you that I personally take it as my responsibility and the Board holds me accountable to this to develop people within this company that do have the ability to take over at some point.
And I can tell you we do have people and I know that I am working with to try to make sure there is more than one or two that have the ability at some point in the future.
Outside of that listen  its a big world and there would certainly be a vigorous external process to the extent that was when the time came because you never want to only rely on one spot.
But whether there are great people out there or not I dont know I certainly would expect there to be.
But I wouldnt rely on solely that is for sure.
Thanks.
And maybe if I could just switch gears onto Pike &amp; Rose.
We had talked in the past about the threat of what's going on in multifamily in the DC area and how long it would take on this project.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how you are thinking about that impact now for Pike &amp; Rose.
Specifically what are your assumptions today where your lease-up is on multifamily versus the competitors? And what was it in the past? I'm just curious how much you have narrowed the premium if at all that you are expecting to get at Pike &amp; Rose? No I dont want you to make too much of this and let me make the point.
I told you that as were leasing this up weve missed our leased up per square foot numbers by 9% in that first building 9%.
Now that I think is pretty indicative of not only supply coming on in the market but if I were asking you to move into that apartment and used all the cranes and the concrete is being poured and the construction site that it is I suspect you would be in a better negotiating position too in terms of being able to lease it that way.
For me that I  we are trying to anticipate that into the Palace building also in about the same amount the same thought.
But I dont want to say this I dont want to sell Cavalier but big deals because the nice thing about this 12 month lease process as you go forward and weve seen it at Santana; in fact just before the meeting I asked on.
We pull together do you think what are our growth rate has been over 10 years at Santana and various different products and we dont havent here but we will and time for city I think youll see what Im saying by being able to create this kind of mixed-use environment which other people do not have to head up to this level we can see the people are coming in the ability to push rams going forward is clearly better than in other type of more generics products through and through.
So always trying be upfront with what your expectations are  we didnt feel comfortable keeping it at 8 to 9 giving what is happen with the first building being 9% off and so just to appropriately lay out where we think we will be upon that first  is the first complete phase including Talas leased up.
We bought it to 7 and 8 but I want to think about that as a max on this project long-term because I do believe this like a family like Santana has a great growth profile associated with it.
Just a last question then for Jim.
And maybe this is going back a bit in time Jim but at the analyst day in late 2013 I think you kind of laid out a plan for Federal that have a sort of a base-rate same-store NOI growth of call it 3% to 3.5% with literally thats forms a redevelopment and acquisitions potentially taking that same-store NOI growth potential as high as 5% to 7%.
I know a lot of time hasn't elapsed but I think you guys have been kind of running around 3.75% to 4% same-store NOI since then give or take.
So how do you think you are doing versus that original plan? Because you have been acquiring; you have been renovating.
Were you did expecting to be slightly better than this at this point? Or is it just because of the timing -- I'm just curious when you -- what your sense is.
Yeah I think were right on top of where we expected and where we laid out.
I think that that aggregate NOI growth also included acquisitions which you know what I would tell you is we remain disciplined and what  what you can take from acquisitions like San Antonio Center is that we are still able to find in the low cap rate environment opportunities that we think will be accretive to our growth in the long-term.
And thats the discipline that weve retained.
We certainly could go out and drive a bunch of near term accretion but diminish our long-term growth and we are just not going to do that.
But in terms of how the core is performing in what we laid out I think we are right on track.
I think  as Ive said before our rollover growth right now at this point of recovery is very strong.
The other thing Id point out here is that we have been producing this really on an occupancy neutral basis which is important to highlight because I think that on a comparative basis it can look less robust but when you are able to generate this type of growth on a portfolio that was 95.6% leased beginning year 95.6% leased at the end of year.
I think it speaks volumes to the job that our leasing team is doing led by Chris and the assets themselves.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler ONeill.
Good morning.
And Jim appreciate the guidance comments.
We will watch the progress throughout the year.
Just a few questions here.
First of all on the Pike &amp; Rose and just thinking about some of your other apartment development sites if you guys knew that  I mean obviously supply doesn't suddenly come up; it's pretty apparent that people are building supply.
So if you can just talk a little bit about how your underwriting may have been off or what lessons you learned given that rents came in almost 10% below where you expected on the project? Yeah.
No first of all youre dead on.
Alex there is  new supply is not a surprise; its takes on the bills in hand and its was clear is to what was going to be there.
What is never clear in a particular environment or at a particular leasing meeting your strategy or when you have a person on the other side of you what it's that those competitors are doing with their rents was  that they are doing with their concessions and you do business in a marketplace.
So its not about lessons learned in this case at all frankly in terms of the product that was coming on.
I think were right on.
But to the extent we are going to have competitors drop prices significantly or significantly increased their concessions were going to follow soon because we want to buy the building.
I do think where we did underestimate it was the impact of the construction on the site and its not like as a single building.
It is a building within the middle of lots of stuff happening on it and I dont remember the last time that youre at the site specifically.
But you know when we do these phased projects we are going to lay if were confident with what we are seeing in terms of demand in the first phase and we are despite the fact that its 9% lower on the actual rent by the way theyre in still a big number.
It's not like were  its not like this is a 9% off  its not a $1 500 month apartments.
This is expensive stuff.
So its still a big number we are going to try to start the next phase as long as were comfortable on top of the first phase to be able to create the critical math.
So if you are going to ask  its really to say what it is that? Weve learned that it would be that first set of lease-up.
We got to fill the building and the construction impact of that per se in a mixed-use project where you got lots of other construction directly adjacent to where you are asking somebody led its going to be more than that we got.
Okay.
And then its  I think continuing the apartments you guys announced a new hire to head up sort of the branding of your residential platform.
This is  should we think that you guys are going to take in-house and start doing apartment property management yourself or you are always going to outsource that or you are debating depending on how big your apartment platform becomes potentially taking that in-house.
That's great question Alex.
Thanks for asking.
There was no intention whatsoever to bring that business in-house not.
The management companies the residential management companies have spend lots of money on their infrastructure lots of money on their systems lots of money on fund there were expertise are being able to do that I would like to leverage that and pay a small couple of percent to be able to get that.
Thats not the same though as the overall senior leadership of how that's being done across a platform and thats the point of hiring mike.
The point clearly is if you are going to build the type of stuff that we are building which is complicated we need to get a premium for that residential rent vis--vis what most residential companies get in terms of the rent.
We are already getting that premium and want it to be more and so putting a senior executive in there that can effectively go over the top by the hallow if you will to  all the properties and make sure there this not  thats really uniformity but the creation of distinction that gives us a better chance of getting that premium and increasing that premium then I think you will pay from south 10 times over.
Okay.
And then just final question you guys have announced a lot like people changes new positions you just basically announced a headhunter search for CEO type position.
Whats driving all this was it where there certain instances where you suddenly realize that people were too stretched out or you werent getting the organizational response that you wanted or is it simply as the company has grown bigger all companies have certain size they go through Grove and Brook and at certain sizes they just need more people or different organizational structures.
Its far more later its exactly I mean look at what this company has look at whats happening at this company in terms of its breadth in terms of its scope and whats most important about that is taking the senior executives at this company and making sure that they are spending their time on the things that had the most value.
So when I sit here and I look at Chris Weilminster across the table who wont have the direct reporting of the guy thats going to report up through mixed-use any longer.
Chris could look at there oh my god thats terrible.
Its not at all terrible those that  that those decisions need to made closer to the real estate so the Chris is effectively the senior most person spending his time on the big things that are really creating the extra expertise necessary on the big stock the same with Don over on the operating side.
So this is a bigger company that simply does have people that have been stretched and stretched and stretched.
And when youre entering the type of next five years that were entering into and what we are delivering you want to make sure; you have your best people on the most important things.
And building below that.
A team that going to effectively succeed them.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Hey there just a quick question.
Then when you look at your stock price for a trade what do you think that trades related to NAV.
Jason isnt that your job? Yes but Im saying Im going to turn this over to Jim.
I truly dont have a good answer for you on this.
The idea what we are trying to do is we are trying as best we can to put allocate capital to projects and to opportunities that creates substantial EBIT a long away.
What is there? Whats trading in the marketplace anybody can talk about where cap rates are? And you can do the math; youve got all the income numbers there.
So Im going to leave that to you.
I really dont know how to give you a better answer than that Jimmy I dont know Jason is going to be all [indiscernible] I didnt give him a specific number.
Youre welcome take it from here.
Jason when you look at where cap rates are today.
And that  just from a spot basis and where interest rates have gone obviously the correlation between REIT pricing and interest rates is parallel than the private market in terms of where cap rates are? And those underlying interest rates.
We continue to be really surprised by where we see assets trading.
And importantly youll not talk about the soft line.
But I think its a point for broader discussion.
These are often talks cap rates in the fore range.
And assets that just arent growing and when you look at our company as an investment proposition and when you look at the amount of pipeline that we have underway are what we successfully delivered and derisked if you will.
And the pipeline that extends beyond that.
There is huge value in that that I know that if we were looking at it in an asset environment certainly would be factored into the pricing.
So hard to pin an exact number because again were in an all time low record interest rate environment.
But I would think that were not fully valued relative to that stock price.
Okay.
The reason I asked -- I'm wondering if you use that relationship to basically fuel your decision-making on the acquisition development -- really the capital allocation side.
And if you either loosen up underwriting or you get more aggressive? And then if your stock price trades relatively cheap or expensive if your decision-making changes? It is absolutely statically doest not.
Weve really look at what we know and when we look at the assets and what we know is both the income is in place and what we think we have is good as you as anybody is where that income is going to go both in terms of in place leases relative to market but importantly what we see the redevelopment opportunities today and I would stake our development the redevelopment team against any platform in the market in terms of understanding and underwriting that type of opportunity and so when we look at acquisition its not with the spot view or an eye on our stock price its with the view towards what will that investment do to our independent growth profile over time.
So and thats discipline will remain.
Okay.
Just as kind of a final follow-up on that let's say for example your stock traded off 15% or 20% over the next couple of weeks.
Would you still be as aggressive in looking at acquisitions as you are today? Or does that change somewhat? Yes I mean again.
You know we look at it from a long-term perspective and we evaluate again what we think that assets going to contribute to our long-term growth I mean It takes me crazy Jason to be doing it that way based on market fluctuations in the short-term.
And I would Certainly just to make the point I mean certainly we acknowledge whats happening in the marketplace and look at the  when you take a look at that our return thresholds and what we need to have to create value today versus five years ago or ten years ago thats obviously changed.
But its going to be in periods like that its not going to be in changes in the next several weeks.
Thats I think thats the full variant.
Okay.
And then just one last discussion point on Amazon expressing interest to enter brick-and-mortar in a larger way.
I'm not quite sure if that's going to happen yet but how big is that opportunity for you as a brick-and-mortar landlord to have potentially thousands of Amazon smaller stores floating around? Well let me say couple of things.
When you  I dont know Chris where do you want to answer this or not you know for last 17 years whatever there was a new concept that was being talked about or whether  whenever there was somebody that was going bankrupt that going out because oh my god what they are going to do and one of the things l love about this business I mean I am sitting here in front of me with seven as our 20 radio check stores that will be given back I am sitting here and looking at 13 staples and office depot stores that who knows whats our future.
This is the opportunity and whether its Amazon you would certainly think that new retailers whoever they might be who want to be in brick and mortar would look hard at the locations that we have.
Its just hard to immersive if they wouldnt and so  I do that as a extreme positives in terms of  brick and mortar retailing.
I look at radio shack going away at the positive in terms of brick and mortar retailing and so from my perspective at least this is what we do and the ability to be able to negotiate and create value has to happen with opportunities like this for any supply and demand.
Thats why the locations are so important.
Great thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Craig Smith with Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
I'm going back to the new VP of residential branding.
Is this job more to enhance the existing performance of the residential properties at Federal or is he also helping to facilitate unit growth at Federal? Yes.
And the only thing I would say  unit growth is much of the unit growth is baked in into the plans for the build out of Assembly for the build out of Pike &amp; Rose for the build out of Santana Row for the build out of the projects that we already have respectively under our portfolio and so add those things are being planned and rolled out I want expertise there.
Secondly there is no question that with respect to the existing product.
I mean the way I like to put it  Craig and you remember that  because youve been around a long time like I have here and what weve done at San Antonio Row with respect to the growth of that project with respect to the benefit of the residential has happened over 12 years now.
10 year or 12 years and we learned upon I dont want it to take that long for Pike &amp; Rose and for Assembly and for those  the other projects that we have.
So having a senior level executive over the top that make sure lessons learned on existing  from a prior experience can be applied to our existing platform its also important.
So this is a senior guy this is the ability to do both of the things that you laid out.
And is there any potential of going beyond the Rows and Pike &amp; Rose in terms of adding multifamily? Well I think you know any piece of land that we have whether its if you are in our headquarters today Congressional you would see a building going up on the back of our parking lot thats the second phase of building that we did 10 years ago on the back of our parking lot.
So - in anyway possible within the retail but also residential in sometimes but small times less case in office is what we did to effectively take advantage of the real estate and take advantage of the retail environment that we created.
So it wont just be the rows I hope you will see it like we added up in Chelsea Maryland  Chelsea Massachusetts rather like youre seeing here at congressional were looking at it at least were looking at in a number plates throughout the portfolio.
But you will not see us going out and simply becoming a residential company.
Were a company that tries to take the real estate that we have the product that were building and create the best uses with our mixed-use real estate.
Great thanks.
Thanks for that.
You bet.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan with MLV.
Hi good morning.
Jim just to get a little clarity you talked about the ramp in FFO over the course of the year; and you attributed it I thought to things like Pike &amp; Rose.
But then you also said not to expect too much NOI contribution due to  a ramp in that due to all the marketing spend associated with the multifamily.
Can you just help me reconcile: where is the brand coming from which projects over the course of the year from an FFO line? Yes.
My comment on the Christys question earlier was we still have drag in the year associated with marketing.
But certainly as the year progresses were seeing some ramp in NOI both with the development Paul and importantly with the redevelopment as well as that successfully delivers.
And as you think about where it is in the year I think we could see a fourth quarter 10% plus higher than the first quarter.
Okay.
And then just sticking with the first quarter for a second do you think there is going to be a big kind of weather-related number we should watch for on the expense side? Early to tell you.
Certainly what we are seeing in the Northeast in the snow in Boston in particular is significant So weve had an easy Mid- Atlantic so far.
So no I wouldn't suggest that you'd expect anything crazy at this point.
But its February 10.
Okay.
Then just going back to Pike &amp; Rose again I guess maybe a little bit bigger picture: how do you think about balancing the need to build -- you know you mentioned noncritical mass there with a big mixed-use project like that where you are trying to get momentum; versus what has kind of been really a gap between demand which has kind of been driven by sluggish job growth and supply which has been pretty aggressive.
How do you think about the one thing where you really want to get momentum versus maybe if it were an isolated project you wouldn't move forward? Yes I don't think we are there Paul.
It's an excellent question; and frankly I love that you used the word balance in there because it is a balance  the entire thing all the way through.
It is the  the notion that there is not demand for the residential product is just wrong.
The residential product I mean this  that first building is done.
it's leased up and its leased up in exactly the timeframe that we expect.
So when you are sitting and talking about rents that are at $2.40 a foot versus $2.58 a foot or something like that that on the balance equation is certainly not going to lead you to we are not building.
In fact in answer to that Alexs question earlier if we had thought harder about the construction impact and had laid out 7% to 8% at the onset here I think you would have said Wow! That is fantastic that you are getting those kind of numbers that's how I feel.
And so youre right that there is that balanced question on these projects Assembly frankly have made it extremely easy for us because on the retail side in particular is just it really has been accepted by the community more much more than we had even hoped it to say.
And as far as I understand Im not talking for AvalonBay because they dont know their numbers inside that I have a feeling you will see us same from that.
So going to the next phase of assembly again assuming we can get the numbers where you needed and I hope you will expect that we will that one is easy.
On Pike &amp; Rose when you talk about it the way I just laid it out there is doubt we should be moving forward in my mind at least with the second phase to create the critical mass but also because there is sufficient demand for the residential product therere definitely demand for the hotel product we think the condo product it's going to fly off who knows it will be  what it will be but we are very cautious to the balance that you talked about.
And in both of those situation I dont think its close with respect to non going forward.
That's helpful.
Our next question comes from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Hi Most of the smaller redevelopments look like they are stabilizing in 2015.
Can you give us a sense as to what projects you have on page 17 of the supp are likely to become active in 2015/2016? Mike I can speak to what we have currently on the pipeline which is on the proceeding phase on page 16 and what we are always continuing to do with the list of projects on 17 is try to put them in the pipeline.
So I expect as you go through the year you will see that project or two as weve consistently done over the last several years but I dont at this point want to speak to specific lines on 17.
Okay.
That was it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Most of my questions have been answered here.
But just going back to the management structural changes here once all the pieces are in place do you expect to get the full productivity of that changed structure by the start of 2016? On the development side of things at least is there an expectation that there could be some upward pressure on those yields as folks are a little bit more focused? Or was it not so quantitative as that? And then second question is: there was a shopping center acquisition that was being discussed last quarter.
Just curious if that's now off the table? I know it was sort of 50%/50% at the time.
Yeah let me give you some thoughts on that.
First of all I do hope that 2016 would be the beneficiary effectively of the structural changes 2016 2017 and 2018 frankly as it heads up.
On the development side there I know its not going to be about I dont think upward pressure on the returns as much as it is I hope to getting to the things that have the best chance of actually happening done and going its about that prioritization where if you take a look at guys I mean weve got some great guys between Don Briggs John Tschiderer Evan Goldman great construction and some other folks and I dont want anybody [indiscernible] off because I didnt say their name.
What I am trying to say is when they go together and arent in silos if you will on certain type of projects I expect better productivity so that should mean more projects so that should mean more projects sooner and thats the primary emphasis there.
And I dont remember the last acquisition As it relates to the acquisition at this point then I would rate it as a little probability.
We do have other opportunities in the pipeline that we hope to be talking about very soon.
Okay thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Haendel St Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Hey I guess its good afternoon now.
Don I don't want to make too much of this but just one more question on Pike &amp; Rose if you will.
Hindsight is 20/20.
Just thinking or wanted to get your perspective on if you think you might have been better off partnering with perhaps an apartment specialist like you did with Avalon at Assembly Row? And I'm curious if the experience might change how you approach the multifamily phases of your mixed-use projects going forward? No Haendel it doesnt.
There is  I love the notion of building apartments in markets with mixed-use with our retail street in markets that we know inside now.
And I dont want to sound apologetic I mean the idea of $2.40 a foot in the first building here under a  in this situation with the construction going.
This is good stuff and I with love in fact we are going to have an Investor Day I am going to announce it right here.
We are going to have an Investor Day.
We are going an investor day at Pike &amp; Rose this year.
Because I really do want to show everybody what we are talking about.
Now I got to tell you I think we are fairly good really good apartment developers in the mixed-use context.
And so I dont know very many people who are putting this kind of capital to work between 7 and 8 with this kind of mix of product.
So now I wouldnt change any of that but I will get you down here in get it through we see.
And Haendel importantly on those returns relative to where these types of assets are trading the value creation is still very significant.
I appreciate and understand that.
A question on a small shop here.
You guys are up at 91.8%.
Getting close to a level where some of your peers have talked about their high-level high-water mark  92% 93%.
I'm curious on your thoughts on where you think your small-shop occupancy could get to? And then just on pricing power as you now get to 92% -- how much more perhaps you could push right here? I have got two funny comments together.
The first is I do agree that 92% and 93% is - I think we have one point we are in the mid 93% on small shop.
At the height of 2006 2007 we certainly hope to get back there and have a very stout effort at trying to do it.
The funny comment is whenever you talk pricing pressure and I look across the table and I see the head of leasing Chris Weilminster  he puts his head down and start smiling because I appreciate you are doing that for putting pressure on him with respect to that I am going to answer for him on that: it depends.
That is a one-off negotiation-by-negotiation dynamic we do the best we can.
Do I think that by being a more leased rather than less leased that is overall a good thing for us yes I did there is no question about it.
In terms of that can I quantify it for you no I dont.
Most of the space thats left and not leased is not obviously the best space in the portfolio.
So where I would rather go is there actually not emphasize the lease rollovers as much and push hard on that other 6% or 7% that is not leased up there to be able to get it done at any rates.
And then often we hold Ive not hold off but effectively work hard to get full rent and some of that stuff you cant.
So you may actually see lease rollovers come down a little bit as the occupancy goes little bit further again thats the balance thats the overall mix between rate and volume.
But you should see I hope you will see some increases to that to the small shop number overall.
And just to follow up on that given as you mentioned it is perhaps not some of your best space and it might take a bit more effort how should we think about perhaps the incremental capital you might need to invest to lease-up that space? We wont do deals that dont make sense.
So you should think about it as I mean just think about what you just said if youre talking about the lease attractive space in a shopping center to the extend we can do as it deals to the extend we do a small amount of capital will make it make sense we will do that.
To the extend in the spaces that were generally talking about here putting a lot of capital and just to get occupancy we wont do that because makes more sense on a capital allocation basis.
Okay.
And then a quick comment if you will perhaps on the 13 Office Depot/Staples that you mentioned  I'm curious on sort of what conversation you are having today; what type of opportunities you are seeing about filling the spaces; and just a point-in-time snapshot perhaps of today  where those rents are versus perhaps what the market for rent? As I said weve got nine Staples weve got four Office Depot spaces throughout the portfolio in almost uniformly when we look down we should be able to at least meet rents and frankly probably meet rent in almost all locations.
There are some conversations about downsizing state of locations which we would love to do to the extend weve got demand that exceed supply in the three cases were talking about it we do.
Its like everything with us we like to see when they plays out but this kind of changeover whether its Staples and Depot whether its RadioShack I mean generally this is good news for us this is not bad news and we expect that to continue.
The one thing I would add it is very early in the announcement of this conversation between the two.
So there is really no conversation yet about what stores they would or wouldnt be if that were to happen and when we looking at our portfolio there is only a few markets where the stores really truly overlap.
So I think Federal even though there is upside in those numbers which we believe I am not sure that we are going to have a chance to get to them.
 through as many of them as we would like.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nathan Isbee with Stifel.
Hi good morning good afternoon.
Don you mentioned the long time it took for Santana to evolve.
And clearly there were some challenges early in the process there.
I'm just curious as you look at all the different pieces that have come together there what is Federal currently yielding on that total project? Guys I dont have that here but I suspected seven plus.
Right around 7%.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just focusing on White Marsh for a second: what are your thoughts about the pending new development there? You clearly have less skin in the game than others but you still have some skin in the game.
Well I can tell you Nate the last thing we do is put our head in the sand.
So were - were talking with that developer who trying to assess what that developers plans are.
Whats actually going to happen versus whats planned Is there something we can do to protect our assets our shareholders and so nothing decided effectively that way yet but we are absolutely in conversations with Paragon to make sure we build the relationship and find out whats the  if there is place where we can the skin cat so it works for everybody.
Okay thanks.
And I am not showing any further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Brittany for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us.
We look forward to seeing you at the Wells Fargo and Citi conferences in the next few weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude todays presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Q1 2015 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Ms.
Brittany Schmelz.
Maam you may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood; Jim Taylor; Dawn Becker; Jeff Berkes; Chris Weilminster; and Melissa Solis.
They will be available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Certain matters discussed in this call may deem to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions.
Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations can be attained.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our annual report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
These documents are available on our website at www.federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our first quarter 2015 results.
Don? Thanks Brittany and good morning everyone.
Well we have got a lot to talk about on this call this quarter with some acquisitions dispositions and personal appointments in addition a very robust development and operational updates.
Jim will cover acquisitions dispositions balance sheet some operations and earnings points and I will try to cover the rest before opening up to questions.
I dont think I have ever been as grateful for the arrival of spring -- a spring of this year.
Snow removal expenses topped $10 million in the quarter doubled what we forecast.
And while the strength of our leases allows us to past-through over 85% of that costs residential office and some retail leases along with vacancy build from that recovery and accordingly our first quarter FFO per share were $1.26 was negatively impacted by over $0.02 a share good year for Boston in particular.
Other than the weather the company continues to perform well and in line with our expectations and early anecdotal evidence suggest that cooked up Northern Eastern shoppers are more anxious than in most years to get out and shop and eat as spring has arrived.
We are certainly seeing that at Assembly Row okay enough about snow.
Rental income growth in the first quarter was strong at 9% as the same-center growth of 3.6% despite only $500 000 in lease termination fees this quarter versus $1.5 billion last year.
Those fees are such an integral part of managing our business and we always include them in our same-store numbers as we do with all financial impact to running the shopping centers.
Sometime they benefit the comparisons sometime they hurt it we live with a new way.
In terms of leasing it was a good quarter.
We completed 86 deals 75 of them for a quarter million square feet of comparable space at average rents of $37.50 11% more than the $33.70 per foot representing the last year in the former lease.
Both leases with new tenants and renewals of existing tenants were profitable and grew at 16% and 8% respectively.
The capital include in those new deals was consistent and in fact a bit lower than last years first quarter diverting much in line with the past couple of years which I view very positively.
California in general and Silicon Valley in particular continues to lead the market we do business in.
In terms of leasing demand exceeding supply and the product that we offer with Boston and New York Metro following closely behind really strong.
The other market we do business in particularly Washington DC are good but are not exhibiting the same leasing power and strength that we are experiencing at west at this point in time.
A few years back was just the opposite reminding us how important the geographically diversified portfolio is the business plan that provides us consistency and stability.
Occupancy remains strong in the quarter with portfolio of 95.4% leased just slightly up the 95.6% leased percentage at the end of the year and last years first quarter.
On a same-center basis we were 96% leased up slightly from the end of the last year.
All-in-all these are very healthy times in our business.
Let me move on now and report some development news.
The early success of Assembly Row made a really clear to us that commercial and residential demand in and around the site wasnt satisfied with the first phase.
Earlier this week our investment community and then Board approved the next phase of Assembly Row.
This newest phase will include an expansion of the retail street in the connection with the ground in the second floor retail in the Partners HealthCare building.
All-in-all the additional 167 000 feet of retail for the project 447 row apartments the Federal will build to manage 155 rooms with Tico tells to be owned in the partnership with New England based XSS Group the deal is not done but its awfully closed and 117 for sale condominium sitting eight floors above the hotel.
Excluding the condos we have committed and appropriated up to $285 million for this phase and expect to yield an unlevered return of about 7% in the first full year of stabilization.
Appropriated capital for the condos approximate $65 million while we expect in lease-hold at net proceeds significantly above that cost we are assuming breakeven in Phase II disclosed returns.
Assembly Row continues to perform extremely well but the only material portion of the first phase remaining to be leased is about half of 100 000 square foot office building.
Assembly Row and the adjacent Assembly Square marketplace have really begun to solidify themselves as an important new shopping and entertainment district in the market feels great.
And when the second phase is completed in late 2017 early 2018 we will still have much more to exploit on this site.
At Pike &amp; Rose in North Bethesda Maryland you will see a fully leased and occupied residential building hold for sale.
We only leased first phase retail components of the project with openings continued through the -- continuing through the summer and an office component with Merrill Lynch and Bank of America moving in as we speak and otherwise being negotiated on the balance of the space.
Well begin leasing the second residential building called Palace next month and the Phase II parking garage is well under construction and will alleviate limited parking pressures by September this year.
Around that same time construction begins on the next two building that will extend the main shopping street.
We should have some pretty interesting retail leasing announcements over the next few quarters based on the interest that were seeing.
Lots and lots happening at Pike &amp; Rose.
By 2017 well have over $510 million deployed on that site in nine buildings before selling 104 condos that is 340 000 feet of retail 757 residential apartments 104 condos 80 000 feet of Merrill Lynch anchored office a 177 room Canopy branded hotel and nearly 2 000 parking spaces.
And like a family well still have much more notably on the site.
The point in El Segundo California will open up in late summer with additional tenant openings continuing through FFO and beyond.
This intersection Sepulveda at Rosecrans with the addition of the point and considering the adjacent Plaza El Segundo shopping center that we control and operate has really become incredibly dominant and important to the beach communities.
We expect it to become more so with the new centers open.
At Santana construction of the office building addressed as 500 Santana Row at the San Jose site continues on schedule and on budget.
The continued strength of the Silicon Valley economy the strong job growth and the growing reputation of Santana Row is very desirable office as it is very bullish about doing deals in the state-of-the-art building over its remaining construction period.
In terms of our important search for a Senior Vice President of our core shopping center portfolio between Boston and Washington DC were down with two final round candidates and expect to make a decision announcement within a couple of weeks maybe sooner.
Fortunately I have been really impressed with the quality of the candidates we have seen feel really good that the enhanced focus on the shopping center site of our business will be fruitful over the next few years.
On the mixed-used side you may have read that our very own home growing choice to lead the operational side of that side business John Hendrickson was wooed away by Ramco Gershenson to service their CLO.
Until that process begin before John was promoted to his latest role at Federal.
I think the world of John.
I wish much continued success.
But this is the Federal Realty earnings call and as such Im thrilled to announce that Dawn Becker will assume the role of Executive Vice President Mixed-Use Operations in addition to her General Counsel responsibility.
As I said on last quarters call our company has grown significantly over the past several years in the bifurcation of core and mixed use necessary service each.
Dawns skills and background her relationship with the senior team partners and respect throughout this organization to make her perfectly suited to this role.
Its a great ask.
Weve got more to talk about in terms of our most recent Florida acquisition future acquisition prospects and are egged from San Antonio Texas along with balance sheet and earnings considerations.
For those and other items Ill turn it over now to Jim Taylor before opening up the line for your questions.
Jim? Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
As Don covered in his remarks this quarter has been an extremely productive one and a continued successful execution of our business plan.
I will briefly touch upon some financial highlights our balance sheet activity acquisition disposition transaction in our outlook for the balance of the year.
Overall property operating income grew at 6.9% year-over-year even with higher snow cost.
As usual same-store growth excluding redevelopment was the largest single driver of that growth at 3.7%.
That same-store growth was driven primarily by rental rate increases both contractual and embedded ramp-ups and rollover versus occupancy.
Redevelopment contributions from successfully delivered projects such as Hollywood Misora Santana Row and Westgate were largely offset by the down time as we redeveloped the asset such as East Bay Bridge Quince Orchard in Maryland as well as with our lease term fees this year.
Developments at Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose contributed approximately 250 basis points of growth or approximately $2.5 million of POI.
Finally the benefit of the San Antonio Centre acquisition in California drove the balance of the growth.
In sum each of the elements of our long-term growth plan that we articulated over a year ago continued to deliver.
G&amp;A increased approximately $1.1 million year-over-year due primarily to transaction cost associated with the closing of San Antonio at the beginning of the quarter as well as slightly higher personnel cost as we build our platform for growth as Don just discussed.
Even with that incremental investment on a run rate basis we expect our G&amp;A margin to trend below 5% as we drive topline growth and maintain strict discipline on expenses.
Interest expense were a $1 million due to lower capped interests as we delivered approximately $300 million in development offset by lower rates as we continued to bring down our weighted average costs as well.
Bottom line FFO grew about 7% when you adjust for the impacts of higher sale and transaction costs.
Again this growth was achieved while we continue to invest in the long-term  Turning to the balance sheet.
We successfully raised an additional $200 million of third year debt and an effective yield of 4.18% a record in the REIT industry.
We used the proceeds to redeem our 2017 6.2% notes bringing our weighted average rate down to 4.4% and importantly extending our average tenure to 10.5 years.
Again consistent with our long-term focus we opportunistically executed upon historically low rates and a flat yield curve to capitalize our growth pans.
At quarter end we had approximately $175 million of cash with nothing drawn under our revolver providing ample liquidity for growth.
Speaking of growth.
On the acquisition front we were very pleased to announce earlier this week the closing of CocoWalk for $87.5 million.
CocoWalk is a $200 000 square foot lifestyle center located in the heart of Coconut Grove Florida.
With the trade area boosting some of the best demographics in Miami-Dade County the hit and vibrant street retailers in the center Grove District serves the most excellent year around communities of South Florida including the Grove Coral Cables in South Miami.
CocoWalk was acquired on an off-market basis from an outstate private company with no local presence.
We partnered on the acquisition with local sharpshooters Grass River Property and The Comras Company whose on-the-ground presence operating and leasing expertise complements perfectly our national mixed-use and retail platforms.
We expect to drive significant value creation of this prime location through redevelopment and remerchandising.
Also please stay tune as we expect to capitalize another opportunities within this year around section of Miami-Dade County.
On the disposition front we successfully closed on the sale of Houston Street following the end of the first quarter.
We sold this for $46 million for a hi-fi cap rates realizing a gain of $11 million on an asset where we saw limited feature growth.
Finally during the quarter we successfully integrated the acquisition of San Antonio Center in Mountain View a truly phenomenon off-market acquisition with tremendous upside in the heart of Silicon Valley.
We are pleased that even in this competitive environment weve been able to find attractive investment opportunities in these highly desirable costal markets.
Turning to guidance.
We maintained our range of $5.26 to $5.34 per share excluding the debt repayments.
Let me offer against some insight on the factors that will influence where we end up in that range.
Each of these factors Im about to discuss reflect careful decisions we continued to invest in long-term growth.
First the sale of Houston Street.
As I mentioned on last quarters call this sale will be approximately $0.025 dilutive to our original forecast.
Second Don mentioned we incurred approximately $0.02 of snow removal costs beyond what we expected this year.
Third we expect the acquisition of CocoWalk to be neutral FFO this year given transaction costs.
But we do expect it to contribute significantly following its repositioning and remerchandising.
We are active on other acquisition opportunities and may incur additional transaction costs before we close anything.
Fourth we made a strategic decision to continue to invest in R&amp;D as Don just put it investing in people on our platforms so that we can responsibly scale into the pipeline of value creation we have underway.
Again I believe that we have most of this investment covered our numbers the transitional costs and other one-time expenses could impact our numbers by absolute penny or two.
Finally on the investment side we continue to aggressively pursue near-term tenant rollover and the related temporary decline in occupancy to create long-term value.
This activity along with lower than usual lease term fees that we expect to realize versus the prior year will likely cost our same-store NOI to decelerate slightly in the second and third quarters.
But we still expect to average 3% to 4% for the year.
Turning again to larger timing assumption factored in our guidance we expect to deliver approximately $375 million in developments and redevelopments this year.
Some of the more significant deliveries include approximately $80 million of office space Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly which is being delivered in the first half of this year.
As I detailed last quarter we have underwritten primarily 2016 rent starts to reflect lease-up timing as well as revised periods.
The retail is fully leased in Pike &amp; Rose as Don just mentioned with 85% of the space now open including iPic Theaters Del Frisco's Summer House City Sport and Sport &amp; Health.
The balance of this retail space will continue to open as planned through 2015.
Pallas the 319 unit high-rise which represents approximately $110 million of investment is slated to open this summer is expected to lease up over the following 18 months.
Given that timing we expect it to be a drag down violator this year and early next as it reaches the stabilization towards the end of 2016.
We expect the planned redevelopment of Pallas House condo which represents approximately $85 million of investment to open late summer and stabilize in 2016.
From a capital standpoint we expect to fund our approximately $250 million of development and redevelopment expenditures this year as well as any acquisitions through free cash flow long-term debt our ATM and our line of credit.
As mentioned earlier we remain opportunistic as it relates to interest rates and we always look for ways in this environment to term out our maturities and reduce our weighted average debt cost.
In closing we have a lot of great opportunities delivering now for the long term.
We couldnt be more excited about how we continue to execute upon our plans a plan that should reliably produce growth 7% to 9% per year growth largely driven by opportunities that we own and control today and moderated by our discipline to continue to invest in the long term.
We look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT next month.
And with that operator I would like to turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning Jason.
I was curious when youre looking at the new T-SOP at their Boston what your expectations were for shopper traffic and how thats kind of trending now that you are open and things are rolling? We are just talking about that Jason.
When you look at the orange line and I dont have numbers yet.
I wish I did.
We can get them in terms of who is coming off and who is coming on.
When you think about it while Phase I is open and the residential is open upstairs traffic continues to build.
Now within less than two years we are going to have 4700 employees who are going to work everyday for foreigner healthcare and you will have the second phase opening.
So I think you will see going from zero upper rents thats pretty steady between now and the next few years.
I mean obviously its a critical park to making that land a whole lot more valuable than it was before.
Okay.
And then on staying on Assembly is Phase II retail going to include outlet type tenants as well or is it going to have a different mix? It is.
Its going to be a continuation of what it is thats working so well in the first phase.
Okay.
And then Pike and Assembly of some for sale condos what are those bringing to property and why those that have just more apartments I mean whats the analysis on why you put for sale in there versus the rent? Well first of all they make money.
I dont want it to be viewed as a subsidy if you will its not subsidy at all.
We evaluate the markets and we believe we are going to make money on them.
Even though we are very conservative in the way we are disclosing them in the 8-K but I will tell you when you look at the communities that we are building they are on critical part.
These are living communities.
They are not Disneyland.
They are not pretty picture on the front of the annual report.
So its a half product in within the apartment product.
Its not like we build the same buildings with the same consumer in mind or renter in mind they are different products and this kind of row has showed us that in the best -- has the best example.
Similarly having some level of for sale now we are public REIT and we are certainly all about a long-term interest rate.
So we are not going to do a lot for sale units but they have some of that product just like growing levels of apartment product is critical to making the whole community work as one.
Great.
Thanks Don.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
A question about the condos at Assembly Row.
There is not a lot of comps in that immediate area and I was just curious if you had any I guess what call the numbers best way you can thought about underwriting the sales prices there eight per unit or per square foot? Yes.
We do.
We have.
We have done a lot on and thinking about it.
And I can tell you that conversations that weve had not only with Avalon and the renters and how many of those folks are asking for sale unit plus also with respect to partners and then coming in there and the kind of dearth of that type of product available outside of Boston.
I mean what we are building will be a far more of an urban condo product and when you look at the comps up there and I know they arent a lot of that math exactly.
It sure feels like demand will significantly increase supply to 100 units or so.
As specific conversation with Don Briggs while you are up there Jeff can give you a whole lot more.
And well be talking a whole lot more as we get on the way.
But the market research says this is absolutely the right thing to do.
And Im just curious in broad strokes -- how do you think what the rents at Phase II both multifamily and retail or how will they compare the rents in Phase I once youre sort of stabilizing through any kind of initial presence? Well listen we will see right.
Were going to push hard and lets talk about the retail first.
The single biggest and that well be pushing for harder in the second phase versus the first phase is more fixed rent less percentage.
And that should be attainable based on the success of the first Phase.
But overall we would expect higher numbers combined fixed plus percentage in the second phase then first phase and thats simply less risk because of the first phase they open.
On the residential side you can talk Avalon in their call stuff but boy theyre really strong.
The rents theyre getting are really strong.
And the product that we were building is differentiated.
Remember they built two types of product theyve got the AVA and the Avalon product in two separate buildings in Phase I.
And so just like weve seen at Santana Row and kind of what Ive just seeing adjacent there has to be a balance of product type there and one of the buildings were building there on the residential side is high rise.
So those views that will be a different product those rents will be a bit higher although were not underwriting them to be a bunch higher at all with whatever Avalon is achieving today.
So we feel like were underwriting it very reasonably.
We feel like the product will be significantly bit differentiated.
Do I expect there to be stabilization when you put a bunch of new product on the market.
Do I expect there to see some rent pressure on the lease up particularly with the Avalon side versus this Id sure I do but your questions are right one.
Upon stabilization I think youre going to see clearly underserved residential market here with the street that is just killer.
So Im going to say that.
If I could switch gears I guess first I want to congratulate Mr.
Hendrickson on his decision to seek a warmer climate in Detroit.
Im just curious on I mean last quarter you talked about creating a mixed use in core property roll.
It seems like the impetus there was just sort of focused personnel on those specific area and so no disrespect to Dawn but I guess why double up her responsibility she already had a lot on her plate with her existing role [indiscernible].
Thats so funny because you remember she had the whole thing.
It was clearly too much right.
She had mixed-use and the core clearly too much particularly when were bringing things like Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose to fruition.
So from her perspective I dont think of course.
She is welcome to speak for her.
This is far more manageable for her.
And on the core side I mean if you just think about it Jeff really as this stuff comes together it clearly is hard to give each business the attention that each business needs when youre delivering large project like this.
So having her work closely with Bridge with Weilminster with two deals that the team effectively that is bringing mixed-use out makes all the sense in the world to us and I think youll see it when you see the core team that were putting together too.
And just last question there have been a few assets or few markets I should say like San Antonio and maybe Chicago that have been.
I think always on kind of the wholesale trends over the year youre exiting San Antonio.
I mean now that youve got a more active acquisition pipeline is that mean you might be more after increase your dispositions? Well I dont know that its increasing dispositions.
Listen we look at this stuff very very holistically with respect to the company.
Now to the extent there is an asset or two or three and they are not a lot of them in this portfolio that underperformed.
But to the extent there are yeah we are going to match them up with an acquisition.
But I think if you took from those comments and went out and underwrote a bunch more dispositions I think Id be wrong.
I dont think you should.
I think again its a one-off as occasions change.
Weve talked about Chicago forever performing pretty now well for us.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
I wonder what the current occupancy of CocoWalk is? And how long do you think its going to take before your impact on leasing is going to be felt on the project? Thanks for the question Craig.
As it relates to occupancy we are approaching 80% there and the asset clearly has lagged behind the great resurgent that is happening there in the Grove District centre district of the Grove with rent on the streets significantly exceeding whats there in the property.
My point of view is that with Chris Weilminster and Michael Comras our local partner that we are going to be getting after in the next 12 to 18 months pretty meaningful changes in that tendency which has lagged and reflects a little bit more of a mix that might serve tourism than really the local community.
So we think there is a tremendous opportunity there for us to get after soon.
Craig look for a two three four years thats what for me.
And then what do you think your yield will be on the project after that stabilization? We expect that yields were coming in the low to mid 5s and we expect that yield to be somewhere between 250 higher than that when we stabilize.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is now open.
Hello.
Good morning.
And Don congrats on the new position.
Hopefully well see an increase in comp in the coming year for you? Lets hope Alex thank you very much.
Yeah.
Thanks Al.
Jim you as well listen Don does a lot and shes obviously an integral part so just like to see good people rewarded.
Did you have a question Alex today? Just a few questions here one I dont know if you commented on Assembly 2 with the condos? Are you planning on selling those yourself or are you going to build them and then sell them in both to a condo seller? No.
We will sell them ourselves with and when I say ourselves we have a condo seller with us.
But we will not effectively pre-sale them to the condo seller.
Okay.
Okay.
And then as far as Jim on the -- you mentioned a number of items transaction expense.
Obviously theres a prepay and then you reiterated guidance with the -- ex the prepaid charge.
So just curious are you guys planning to switch to a core FFO number or you will report a reported FFO number on a go-forward basis? We are following NAREITs definition of FFO.
Our guidance really is intended to exclude the debt repayments really Jeff -- or excuse me Alex to avoid confusion.
Okay.
And then finally Don as you guys are more active on the acquisition side are you finding it harder or easier to source privately on deals meaning that -- are the private owners looking at these cap rates and going wow this is great? Or they increasingly looking at values going where else can I replicate my income streams so I am sort of more likely to not sell product today just because I can't find anywhere to reinvest? Ill -- let me say one thing Alex and then Jeff is on the phone as is Jimmy so they can add to it.
We have never been able to kind of give you broad comments like that and say this is what private owners are thinking and this is what public owners are thinking et cetera.
If you look at of CocoWalk and hopefully over the next couple of few months youll see additional stuff that we are talking about here.
You will kind of see and certainly when you look back and you see San Antonio Centre these are one-off decisions made by investors both private and public who have all sorts of different reasons for doing what they are doing.
I dont -- when you look weve done a $1 billion worth of acquisitions in the last few years.
Its not like we haven't done a lot we do bigger ones.
And in every case there is a different set of situations.
So I don't see that changing.
I don't feel like that's changing right now.
Jim or Jeff anything on that? Don.
I think you hit the nail on the head.
I mean Alex maybe a broad comment like that works for more commodity product.
But given where we want to be and the type of the property we want to buy really is an individual decision particularly with the private owners on every deal.
And the reasons are many and whats happened here respective of whats going on in the capital markets.
Okay.
Jeff.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citi.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Just for Jim a couple modeling questions on the transactions thus far.
You had I think a couple of $100 000 of acquisition-costs related to CocoWalk in Q1.
What are you expecting acquisition costs to be in Q2 and then what was the cap rate on Houston Street? The expected total acquisitions cost Q1 and Q2 for CocoWalk will be about a penny.
And the cap rate on Houston Street was in the high 5s.
And then do you have any additional acquisition or dispositions under contract or close at this point that you are working on negotiations? We do so stay tuned.
Okay.
Got it.
So just on refinancings and with regards to the early redemption of the 2017 notes how do you sort of think about sort of the cost of redeeming and will you take the charge for next quarter or this quarter versus sort of the opportunity cost in weighting and would you consider bringing anything else forward? Well.
Weve significantly turned down our existing maturities.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks our weighted average churn now is over 10 years.
And really the way we look at it is on an NAV or NTB basis in terms of how far would rate past the move for us to break even for paying it today.
And as we looked at the decision to refi given where rates where we saw about a 30 to 40 basis point moved paying for it on a breakeven basis.
And since weve done it were already effectively in the money.
So thats how we think about that.
Okay.
And then with regards to the mortgage is coming during November can you remind us your plan? Well we have the opportunity to prepay those a few months early which we will do.
And then as always we will opportunistically look to the market the best way to turn that out most likely with the longer-term debt offering but stay tune there.
And at what point are those paid down what month? We have the opportunity to prepay those in August.
All right.
Okay.
Just one last question on Assembly Row Phase II.
Can you remind me on the construction of the office portion if partners is doing not themselves? Is there any -- are there any fees associated with that construction? Partners is doing it themselves theyve effectively bought the land from us thats how we get paid.
In addition we are buying back the ground floor to draw our own development plan.
But Christy we are not receiving any development fees as part of that.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just a couple of questions on CocoWalk.
And I wonder whether you can share with us Jim at this point regarding the remerchandising strategy there for levels 2 and 3.
I think thats for the vacancy I think its been concentrated.
And.
Can you also confirm whether you expect to maintain the fourth level as offices? Jim I dont want to talk yet a bit specifically about plans by floor.
But let me give you a little bit of perspective.
It sounds like the assets well.
And in fact youre right the upper levels have struggled as does second third floor retail in many instances.
We do have Cinepolis now as the theater operator who will be bringing in more of an upscale movie experience there on the third floor anchoring it and theyre going to putting significant capital and what they have there from theater and experience perspective.
We also will be bringing into those levels more destination type tenants think Health Plus business things like that.
For the balance we believe that the office market there is pretty robust and provide some opportunity and we think there is an opportunity for other more destination type tenants.
And again overall we think the merchandising in performance to that asset significantly lag whats happening in the streets around it.
Thats really the asset has been in the last 10 years by an out of state owner operator and its the need of some remerchandising and repositioning which were excited to get after.
And in terms of your partners there the local sharp shooters as youve labeled them.
Can you kind of outline how the management of the property will operate and what the fee structure will be? Were paying market-based fees for the ongoing operation of the asset.
We have in our local partner Gras River Property a group with operating expertise which is actually located on the next block away from the property.
Obviously our team will be working with them to make sure the properties are operated well.
And from a leasing perspective well be working with Michael Comras and of course our own team to make sure were getting the right tenancy and merchandising mix in there.
And then finally on this property Don mentioned I think in the prepared comments that we should kind of stay tuned for more activity in Dade County.
And I just wonder whether if you do more acquisitions in that county whether you use the same partnership or whether that will be done totally differently? We would look at opportunities with this partnership.
What we believe strongly is that local on the ground presence is critical to success.
And particularly Jim in a market like this were pleased with the type of opportunities that is the partnership weve been looking at together and I think were well positioned to capitalize on that.
Okay.
And then finally one quick one on Assembly Row Phase II.
The cost estimate there is indicated as net of projected land sale proceeds.
Are these proceeds on the land parcels already sold or will they be incremental land sales? That is the land sale proceeds from the partner side Jim.
Okay.
Great.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Just a couple of quick questions on CocoWalk does this acquisition often mainly in planning phase include maybe from other nearby acquisition.
It seems like there is other not the same but a similar looking strip centers or lifestyle centers nearby that look challenging as well.
Just curious if your overall master planning include maybe assembling other products nearby? Hey Ki.
Thats a -- I mean its a great question.
And the answer is of course.
It doesnt necessarily mean basically we view CocoWalk as getting into a community for that growth in particular.
That truly is not solely towards mix in Miami.
This is -- we look at little bit like the [indiscernible] if you will of Miami.
And accordingly to the extent we can do what we hopefully can do at CocoWalk to the extent that we can pick up other properties well like to be able to do that in around the area to the extent that numbers dont make sense we wont.
So there is a -- I dont want to necessarily think of a particular strip center or particular power center or whatever else but think generally retail and how it is that we can capitalize on the business that well do a couple of help.
Okay.
For the two in your own -- have you already start engaging some other owners buy or is it lets get this part done first and then start that dialog later? Lets leave this commerce.
Thats another conversation.
Okay.
Let us do a negotiation.
Okay.
So you dont want to do on the conference call.
And just last question when you roll out places like Santana Row Assembly or Pike &amp; Rose.
Im sure you guys have done ton of studies but the dollars that the market share you end up grabbing in whatever radius you pick how would you describe the shoppers that end up coming to your center.
Is it -- or the dollars coming to your center is that really coming from dollars that would have been spent at mall nearby or shopping centers.
How would you describe that market share grab? This is going to be anecdotal much more than scientific gear but the real answer to that its just a combination.
Certainly we want to expand the marketplace.
Certainly we do.
I mean when you take a look at Santana over a dozen years now.
We absolutely have expanded the marketplace.
Have in certain instances weve taken from other centers and other retailers absolutely too.
So its a combination.
Its not one versus the other.
The products in really all of those cases that we are trying to build is a community that works for the particular market that we are in.
So as you know Assembly is very different than Santana and both are very different than Pike &amp; Rose and we could go on and on and talk about the others.
Each is different but they are aiming for a 25 mile radius around the particular center and producing a product that is just not available there.
So its a combination of expanding that market and also some privacy.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thats it for me.
Yeah.
Thanks Steven.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Hi.
Real quick on Houston Street just curios what was the specific catalyst triggered to sale now? Mike its a great question.
We look at all of our portfolio and really evaluate on a going forward basis what the growth prospects look like what our hold-IRR is.
And as we look at that asset and a brilliant effort by Jeff and the team decided that this was the right time to sell it.
We thought valuations would be strong.
Actually we were pleasantly surprised by where we ended up from a valuation standpoint.
And we are pleased that we made the decision to move forward with that.
Mike its a right time as Jimmy said and also we wanted the assets to be in the best shape it could be prepared for sale.
So when you look at the leasing that was done there.
The West Coast team has run that and really put it in shape to be more marketable than its been.
Weve known for a very long time that we were not going to make San Antonio Texas a hub of Federals acquisition activities.
So it really was about getting the asset in the right position.
We did some developments there with a new Walgreens a couple years back and just made it more marketable when you combined that with the current economic environment now is the time.
Got it.
And then I know you touched on this before during your Investor Day but when you are looking beyond Phase II of Assembly beyond Phase II of Pike &amp; Rose how build out are those sites going to be after the Phase IIs? Basically -- I mean I was just thinking about this for Pike &amp; Rose.
About half of Pike &amp; Rose about half of that and a bit more than half at Assembly wants to go and then think about Santana there.
Think about -- when you see -- I dont know if youve seen yet really what the mixed use portfolio looks like.
But the mixed use portfolio also includes big pieces of land that we have shopping centers on whether its Grant Park Atlanta whether its Pike 7 whether its Montrose Crossing.
And similarly in the core when you look at some of the assets in that core there is a lot to do.
So yeah I know all of our focus is always on and talk about with respect to Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly.
But truly get up a notion higher and you will look and you will see acres and acres of really well located big shopping centers that should be intensified.
Got it.
Okay.
That was it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Good morning.
Just a couple ones for me here.
Curios on what you are seeing or hearing from brokers on the pipeline for the back half of this year for the type of products youd be interested in buying and how that compares to six months ago and hoping to get a sense of if you are seeing perhaps a sense from sellers that they might be more willing to come to the table now maybe you are reflecting a sense of anxiety over rates or -- and the impact of asset pricing? Haendel as Jeff alluded to earlier each situations that we look at is itself unique.
It does feel like we are seeing some slight building in terms of opportunities particularly those that are being brokered but in terms of what our targeted list of assets is it just really depends.
Too early to tell whether or not this recent volatility is really changing investor decisions as to what to do with these assets that we targeted but we will see.
Okay.
And you guys have stuck to the plan of spending $200 million to $300 million per year free desk for sometime now demonstrating some discipline on capital allocation.
I am curious if the highly competitive acquisition environment along with the success of your recent projects like Assembly Row and like supply in the community center space may make you perhaps consider picking up your redevs or expansion investment pace a bit here over the next year or so? The bottomline is and I know you get tired me saying this but this is all about the balanced business plan.
And so when you think about that pace as it includes redevelopment of existing shopping centers all day long I mean we have pushed -- we push as hard as we can.
And frankly I am hopeful that this breaking out of core and shopping centers in McHugh will actually help that over the next few years certainly not immediate but over the next year.
So again I am hopeful there.
In terms of the big stuff that we do I mean we are not a -- I never want us to be 25% of this company being developed.
So it is that balanced.
But by and large this is a core shopping center company that truly takes advantage of the places that were in which have gotten better and better over the last couple of decades to intensify them.
That will continue and I hope it actually go up a little bit in terms of the core portfolio.
Appreciate it guys.
Thanks Haendel.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Vineet Khanna with Capital One Securities.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Taking a look at sort of the DC market its been for a couple of quarters being concerned over multifamily for rent supply but can you sort of talk about the for sale product in the DC area and what the status of the supply is there? I cant.
No as we think about whats happening in this particular market North Bethesda what led us to go with the condo product has actually been a lot of unsolicited demand.
So we feel pretty confident based on the basis that we are coming in and where we see the current sales prices for condos in this particular region that we have significant upside.
And certainly based on early indications we will have significant demand.
But Vineet that wasnt your question I mean we couldnt be more optimistic about 104 units the condo units at Pike &amp; Rose.
With respect to the entire Metro DC market as youre asking about in terms of for sale product now there is really not much more we are going to add to that.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then I guess taking the DC silver line has been opened for sometime and the road work in that area is complete.
Can you sort of talk about the sales trends at Pike 7 and how they compare to preconstruction environment in that area? Yes.
Pike 7 blows me away.
When youre sitting you think about a kind of a community center with a parking lot in front of it.
One story of REIT -- story of retail you would never think that -- you would think about stuff to coming up at least.
Well its the opposite.
With thats happening inside them with all of that congestion titles with the silver line with all of that done that center has done remarkably well.
Sales were off a few percent and that center during all that construction they are well back above where they were before.
Its stronger than ever.
And when you think about it its one of the few shopping centers that produce such an easy to park in front and walk in a market that is totally under construction right now.
So silver line is definitely a positive thing for that piece of land certainly it may be intensify as we go forward as the leases come up over the next five years or something like that.
But in the meantime we are doing really well there.
Okay.
And then just lastly I think a couple of quarters ago you spoke about how the retail tenants sales are coming in relative to the budgets at Assembly Row can you sort of walk through the same for Pike &amp; Rose if its not too soon? I cant.
Pike &amp; Rose remember what we did its different than Assembly.
Assembly what we did primarily is built out the street and not only primarily almost totally built out the street put in our big boxes and Avalon does the residential but the street was key.
At Pike &amp; Rose that was a different strategy because there was an existing shopping center on the site [made by Plaza] [ph] which was doing extremely well even up till the time we knock it down.
That project was basically a residential project in the first phase.
So there isnt critical mass of the retail which is why we did in that first phase feels like eye-tech which is killing it as you know.
Sport &amp; Health which is a local -- regional health club operator that is really well know and strong.
Thats why we do restaurants like a Del Frisco's Grille like a Summer House doing very well.
And with respect to the retail thats why we went with National like GAP and City Sports there to kind of round it out.
Those guys are doing fine not nearly as good as they will do with the second phase opened up which is why we are working so hard to construct that second phase.
Now then that will have created the street that feels very much like Assembly.
Okay.
Well thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Thank you.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brittany Schmelz for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
We will start to seeing you every week in New York in the coming weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in todays conference.
This concludes todays program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for your patience.
Youve joined the Federal Realty Investment Trust Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference maybe recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to our conference host Ms.
Brittany Schmelz.
Maam you may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood; Jim Taylor; Dawn Becker; Jeff Berkes; Chris Weilminster; and Melissa Solis.
They will be available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Certain matters discussed in this call may deem to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions.
Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance these expectations can be attained.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
These documents are available on our website at www.federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our second quarter 2015 results.
Don? Well thank you Brittany Schmelz and good morning everyone.
Its a pleasure to be able to report you today weve had a very strong quarter for Federal all the way around our business.
Strong FFO growth strong same-store growth strong lease rollover strong occupancy strong development deliveries and more acquisitions in Greater Miami.
Also mentioned an 8% dividend raised may $0.07 a quarter to 94 the 48th consecutive year of increased dividends great quarter.
Now lets start with earnings.
FFO per share were $1.33 excluding of course prepayment premium this year and the retirement of $200 million of senior notes was 8% higher than the $1.23 earned in last years quarter as the first phase of the development project begin to contribute and the core continues to power along.
I single out higher and anticipated percentage rent at Assembly Row a nice residential rent growth San Antonio Row especially encouraging.
Its really good news because thats weve discussed previously we are very consciously investing in our team with higher long-term incentives in people bench strength to be sure or assure as we can that we are well prepared to execute and deliver on a business plan and doubling NOI in the next decade hence part of the reason for the G&amp;A increase in the quarter.
Its a very balanced approach toward growing our business and its not a quarter-by-quarter business plan.
On the leasing side nearly 300 000 feet our comparable deals were executed in the quarter at average rent of $30.41 15% above the 26 36 the prior tenant was paying.
Leasing strength was broad with both new deals and renewals registering double-digit growth within all three operating platforms of our company West Coast the core and the mixed use portfolios.
As an example we are thrilled to do our first deal with Macy's in the form of their first Macy's Backstage retail stores.
Their value based concept opening this month at our Melville shopping center [indiscernible].
In addition we saw strong renewals at newly acquired San Antonio Center in Mountain View California and thats a Village of Shirlington in Arlington Virginia in the health club and theater categories.
Both come with significant upgrades to their facilities a clear trend that we're seeing in the theater business in particular as compensation from newer more service oriented companies gain traction.
Same-store growth in the quarter was strong at 3% that out the impact of redevelopments and 4.8% with lease termination fees are comparable in both periods.
The redevelopment impact really benefited from a great job in Mercer Mall in New Jersey [indiscernible] all opened and this more to come.
For an asset pictures in Mercer Mall really reflect the quarterly development competency.
Its a transformed asset.
Well on enrichment and similarly on its way to transformation to a for more relevant retail side.
Occupancy jumps in the quarter to 94.9% well the percentage lease claims of 95.7%.
Both up a bit compared with last year and the first quarter on a strong leasing momentum.
As you can see this was a really strong operating quarter.
Now lets move on report some development news.
First in Somerville Assembly Row continues to mature beautifully with most restaurants and retailers meeting or exceeding their first year projections.
Weve clearly struck the chord in the community and are providing a need that wasnt being met.
Percentage rent is above our expectations and the office building is basically fully spoken for with virtually all available space occupied or undersigned leased or LOI.
The partners construction is right on or maybe ahead of schedule and occupancy by partners employees expected to begin next summer.
That building is huge and really does wonders adding scale and perspective to the entire site check it out on any trip to Boston its impressive.
Our own construction on Phase II is just now getting underway and will start to deliver in 2017.
Future of the Assembly Row section of Somerville is extremely bright and there will be incremental investment opportunities here for at least the next six or seven years as we fully build out.
400 miles south is Pike &amp; Rose in North Bethesda Maryland and there too lots of construction lots of progress to report.
Lets start with the residential lease commencement at the Pallas high-rise build.
36 leases signed 11% of the building in the first couple of months at rents at or above our pro forma with the first step thats moving underway.
I think I just start.
The new parking garage will open next month as scheduled and provide an additional 550 plus surely needed spaces.
Virtually all available office space in the first space is now either occupied or undersigned leased or LOI more pronounce.
At the second phase gets underway we have signed leases or LOIs with some great anchors early in the process that should give you a feel for the direction were going.
Pinstripes the 30 000-square-foot bowling and entertainment concept will anchor the industry.
REI we relocate from a mile way to anchor Rockville Pike and newly formed Rose Avenue in 38 000 square feet.
And were closed to a deal with H&amp;M to take 25 000 feet onto levels at one of the best corners in the project.
Playing more leasing and have worked with some terrific names we begin construction on the second phase that is so necessary to create the critical-mass at this site needs.
Deliveries and store openings in this phase begin in 2017.
Frankly I cant wait to show the project off a bit at our plan Investor Day there on September 30.
I hope most of you are planning to attend.
Well there will still be plenty of construction on the interior upper floors of Pallas along with some exterior trim to finish up aforementioned the second phase which will be well underway at that point.
It wont be hard to see why were so bullish about the very significant value being created here now and well into the future.
Meanwhile on the West Coast the first dozen or so tenants open last week at the point to capacity perhaps.
The point being our 150 000 square foot addition to the Plaza El Segundo shopping complex in El Segundo California.
Thank you by the way the West Coast folks on the phone who e-mailed over the weekend with kind words after visiting the point it really means a lot.
80% of that space is leased are fully executed  are in the fully executed NOI.
And we will be opening tenants throughout the rest of the summer and fall and what we know will be a favorite gathering at shopping destination for the areas underserved communities like Manhattan Hermosa and Redondo Beach.
Tenants like True Food Kitchen Lucky Jeans Madewell Athleta Mendocino Farms and SoulCycle all around a really large and attractive park like public space to give you the feel of what we were creating here.
Significant value creations day one that will get better and better for years to come.
And perhaps the newest thing to talk about in this call is our well study commitment to South Miami.
We reported on the CocoWalk acquisition with our local partner Gras River on last quarters call and since that time we have closed on several Coconut Groves street retail building and closed proximity to CocoWalk in order to make our presence more intact.
In addition weve locked up a larger retail in mixed-use projects just a few miles away also with local partners Grass River with due diligence largely complete and a closing data expected in the new few weeks.
Jim will talk more about that to the extent we can in his remarks.
My point of talking about is this.
We have gone from a non-player in South Miami a few months ago to a very significant landlord controlling hundreds of thousands of square feet in six months time.
Roughly $200 million of initial acquisition capital had a tight reasonable yield at first 5% plus.
While we worked hard to figure out a significant repositioning and redevelopment plan that could hopefully allow us to deploy as much as an additional $150 million to $250 million in those assets over the next five years in effect a yielding land time.
I am hopeful confident that our work and our experience on the life of Bethesda Row Assembly Row Pike &amp; Rose Santana Row and the point so many smaller examples over the past 20 years put us in an unique position to be able to do just that.
What if not  we still have great real estate and a very protected downtime.
As you can see there is a lot going on [indiscernible] of our business plan.
We remain on track double our income in the next decade as we have talked about many times in the past couple of years so far so good.
Let me now turn it over to Jim Taylor for additional guidance and explanation and then well open up the lines to your question.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
As Don highlighted in his remarks our results this quarter not only set a new record for the Trust in terms of FFO per share they further demonstrate the continued successful execution of our long-term plan.
A plan that drove the 48th consecutive annual increase in our dividend of 8%.
I will provide some additional color on our quarterly results our balance sheet activity acquisition and our outlook for the balance of the year.
Overall property operating income grew at 9.2% year-over-year.
As usual the largest single driver of that growth is our operating portfolio which grew at 4.8% on a same-store basis including re-development and 3% excluding.
Cash really expressed this quarter at 15% on deals will take occupancy in the future we believe that we remain on track to continue to deliver sustainable growth.
Importantly as highlighted in our supplement continue to successfully deliver on our re-development pipeline.
As Don noted most notably this quarter stabilizing re-development in Melville and Mercer Mall.
In addition our initial phases of Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly contributed approximately $3.5 million of DOI during the quarter.
Finally this quarter we benefited from the successful integration of our acquisition San Antonio Center in Mountain View California as well as CocoWalk and Coconut Grove Florida.
As previously discussed these assets are not only accretive in the near-term it present compelling redevelopment opportunities given their infill location.
Our G&amp;A increased approximately $1.2 million year-over-year due primarily to transaction costs associated with the closing of CocoWalk as well as higher personnel cost Don mentioned as we continue to invest in our platform for growth.
As discussed last quarter even with this incremental investment in our platform we expect our G&amp;A to remain at about 5% of revenue.
Interest expense grew slightly during the quarter due to lower cap interests as we deliver parts of the first phases of Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose which was offset by lower rates as we continue to bring down our weighted average interest rate which today stands at about 4.3%.
Bottom line FFO per share grew at 8.1% in line with our long-term plan at 7% to 9% even as we continue to invest in the future.
As many of you have heard us to say at the conferences and one on one meeting we could generate higher absolute for us where we would scale back on that investment and perhaps lever up and then but that is a cyclical plan only.
A track record that is older than many of us on this call guides our relentless focus on predicable sustainable growth.
Turning to the balance sheet early in the quarter weve redeemed $200 million of our 2017 6.2% notes with the proceeds of a third year debt issuance of 4.18%.
Importantly we extended our weighted average tenure to 10 year which as we look forward provides us with maximum flexibility to access most opportunistic part of the yield curve.
Longer sure and still retain the longest weighted average tenure in the shopping centers fact.
At quarter end we had approximately $100 million drawn under our revolver leading us to more than enough liquidity to fund the growth we have underway.
On the acquisition front we successfully integrated the CocoWalk asset during the quarter have identified near term upside while we execute on our longer-term plan to the asset.
In addition we closed on the acquisition of interest in seven retail assets running the primary shopping streets within the growth providing us additional opportunity capitalize on the positive runner rate trends within the research in Grove District.
Finally as Don mentioned we placed another approximately $110 million assets under contract within the broader trade area which like CocoWalk benefits from a phenomenal infill location and also presents an opportunity to create significant value through developments to serve the Avalon and thats population that surrounded.
More to come on that asset soon.
With our strategic focus on this Miami-Dade market and our partnership with local sharpshooter Grass River Comras we  as Don mentioned we have built the substantial market presence within a short period of time.
We couldnt be more excited about this market and how well benefit our overall portfolios through inevitable cycles.
Now turning to guidance for 2015 we have tightened an increase the mid-point of our previously provided range to 529 to 533 or 7.5% growth year-over-year at the mid-point.
This updated guidance generally reflects the strength of our opening at Assembly Row whereas Don mentioned many of our tenants are now paying additional percentage rent as well importantly is continue to strengthen our core our team has been doing and an excellent job managing rollover and leasing additional space.
We expect to continue to see robust capital over growth for the balance of the year well above historical average.
While we will also see some lag in the same-store NOI the second half of 2015 due to tenant rollover and higher term fees that we realized last year.
Even with these timing issues we expect same-store NOI to average 3.5% to 4% including redevelopment for the entire year.
Some of the larger timing assumption that have been factored into our guidance and that will impact the balance for this year as well as 2016 approximately $80 million of office space Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly that is being delivered this year.
We now have leases in NOI and over 95% of that space.
Based on the deals and the place we expect these tenants take occupancy through mid-2016 and based on free rent period to be fully paying rent in 2017.
The retail and Assembly Row at 97% lease to 95% occupied as of the end of the second quarter with the last few tenants taking occupancy in the later part of this year.
The retail is fully leased to Pike &amp; Rose is over 90% of the space now open including iPic Del Frisco's Summer House City Sport and Sport &amp; Health.
The balance of this retail space will continue to open over the next six months.
Pallas the 319 unit high-rise which represents approximately $110 million of investment as open it is expected to lease up over the next 18 months.
Given that timing we expect it to be a drag down NOI this year and early next as it reaches the stabilization at the end of 2016.
And finally from a timing perspective the point redevelopment of Pallas House condo which represents approximately $85 million of investment open last week extremely well and it project stabilized through mid-2016.
Again as we look forward we remain confident our plan to continue to generate 79% growth even as we invest for the long-term on both sides of our balance sheet.
While we have not provided guidance for 2016 which well do next quarter we would nonetheless expect to remain in that range.
Finally we all look forward to seeing you at our Investor Day on September 3.
We expect to show up our first days Pike &amp; Rose which will now be a  and also just two are the best row and show the opportunities for additional investment and one of our first mix these properties.
We also provide both to the opportunity meet our broader management team responsible for the execution of our plan as well as meet members of our Board of Directors.
With that operator I would like to turn the call over to questions.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of Citi.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Just with regard to the point can you discuss sort of your objective in merchandising the retail and the restaurants and release and supply also going to next store and the other retail in the area and in sort of thinking about it as an addition to the Pallas have you figured out a way to more seamlessly join the two asset to encourage that cross hopping I know there was an issue with the train tracks between them.
[indiscernible] questions Christy.
Hey Jeff you are on the line you want to take it? Yes sure.
Hey Christy how are you? Hey Jeff.
As you know from being out there that we have a sectional pass out again they call the collection which is about 50 000 square feet of lifestyle it does very very well.
So thinking about the merchandizing strategy for the point we wanted to build on that success and continue to fill on unmet need for additional Lifestyle retail in that trade area which weve done and were doing.
We have 25 000 square feet of restaurants space at the point with you that whole market is really underserved for better dining options and also for a collection of restaurants meeting at some place kind of like Santana Row or you can come and park the car and meet your friends and figure out where youre going to once you get there pretty much every other restaurant opportunity in that market is what I will call point and suite in your car you go to the restaurant again your car and you leave.
So that was a real unmet need in the trade area and I think weve done a nice job of filling that.
In terms of the connectivity yes the rail road tracks are never going away but weve got a couple ideas we are working on with the city of El Segundo right now to make the connectivity better and I think well achieve those find years and work through everything with the city in the next few months and the connection between the collection in particular in the point more improved.
Its not super pedestrian front but right now but really its only a two or three minute walk from the front of the collection to the main its a boulevard enter point at the point.
So its really not that bad but we can improve it.
I mean having said that Christy one thing I want to mention is we argue about that and one of the things we argue about is whether its necessary.
And so with any new project we are learning we will be learning a lot over the next few months.
And Im personally not convinced that its necessary to connect them at all.
But well see other works out [indiscernible] as we do have some alternatives to do that if we need to.
Okay and then just secondly Don you mentioned the $110 million acquisition in part of that you have under contract maybe you could tell us a little bit more about it in terms of any value add opportunity thats related to that with widely marketed and is that acquisition currently in your 2015 guidance range? Its not been guidance at all and Im not going to specifically going into the asset I will tell you this we made a bet on South Miami.
Basically as we thought about it Christy the idea of South American money everything thats going on downtown there is a lot of players that are trying to capture all that and then we think that will be successful.
We didnt compete with that.
This was an idea to say wait a minute.
There is Miami is how has been clearly becoming more and more of a grown up city more and more an important city worldwide and its got a lot of people like all those markets that were in who live there who do well living there and they need their place for those families and their lives.
Thats what were doing and still going to grow thats what we are doing in that whole area thats why we are making the incremental investment in total.
So Im looking at CocoWalk the Street Retail this other asset which will be able to talk about and then fully in just a few weeks certainly on next earnings call to get an idea of the entire bet that were making all of each of those assets is not expected to stay what they are because they only work and so as figuring out what kind of redevelopment plan how we put that together we will take time.
Im looking forward to that and the difference with us and I love is that in the meantime why we figured out we are making accretive acquisitions.
So its more raw material in the  for the future of our business plan.
Thanks so much.
Thank you our next question comes from the line of Jason White Green Street Advisor.
Your line is open.
Good morning just a quick question on your recent acquisitions over the last two three years.
Seems like these has been minority partners and a lot of those probably just assumption of shaking the properties lease just kind of walk through the pros and cons of having minority partners involved and those extra seats at the table make it difficult for them to achieve what you want to achieve on some of these properties? Yes Jason no question about it all the balance  let me start by this I am sure Jim will have and Jeff will have some to say that as you know every deal that we make is not part of a formula.
Every deal that we make is part of a specific real estate transaction where we think we can create the best value.
We are talking here about South Miami which is the most reasonable we can talk through here.
There was no question that having a local partner who truly knows better than we do.
The specific ins and outs from dynamics of the marketplace the leasing person who is involved with that partnership is the best in the marketplace.
So we are getting additional expertise there in that particular case we thought was real important to the whole risk award balance.
Now clearly by doing that weve got another seat at the table clearly by doing that partnerships had complexity.
On balance that one for us with the specific way that we want it to go and attack South Miami.
As you go back a little bit you look at Plaza El Segundo it was about shaking it out a little bit it was about creating how we were going to get control of it.
And also Jason we will bring in minority interest throughout the union transactions as well as we did at the Grove and Shrewsbury where effectively we own and control the asset.
But their ownership is reflected at the asset model.
Yes the key point to that to really understand is  look we were never going to compromise on the locations that we are trying to get on the value creative part of the equation.
And so to do that with the best real estate to the extent it makes sense we are going to look at it really closely and open our minds so whatever structure is necessary to get it done.
The only thing Id add to what Don and Jim have said is when we are doing a partnership deal for tax reasons for the contributor in the case of boundary or otherwise in the case of something like Plaza El Segundo.
The people are staying and really dont have day-to-day operational say and what goes on.
So whether might be a little bit more reporting and little bit more communication here or there.
Its not like we have to get approval to do we need to do around the property.
Thanks and then another one on  in terms of your realignment and kind of your restructuring at your  of your team.
Does this increase the capacity to do other mixed use redevelopment it sounds like [indiscernible] going to involve some extra time.
How much broader tend to be in terms of tackling to this project? Yes Im hopeful it increases our capacity to do all sort of different steps.
You know in the case of South Miami those partners do have very good development expertise and local development expertise.
So thats important now how much more capacity over weighted what we are doing down I dont.
What were talking about is pretty aggressive.
When you sit here think about  bringing in Jeff Mooallem or when you think about effectively dividing up the portfolio the way we have.
We clearly are  the notion here is to bring in high level real estate talent.
That so that we can get to more of what is a pretty strong growing company.
So the answer is yes here  to your questions.
Its all partly  parts are look how were moving it forward as a period of time that everybody whether its a partner or a federal employee needs to understand whats going on around here and how to figure out how to create that value.
But Im very cautious on bringing in that kind of raw skills level and we confident well get there.
Okay and then last one from me is just  as you look youre releasing spread.
Is there any pockets of strength or weakness in the cost of portfolio whether its geographic or property type small shop centers is there anything its really driving or weighing on I mean any of that releasing effort.
Yes I still think I mean its just in the market a geographic market impact here.
The West Coast and its really really strong.
Were also seeing strength in Boston DC is little softer but  but it is the combination that kind of create that  that overall result and then cut another way timing on particular anchors or small shop tenants that are below market that we can get it.
And we always seem to find some to be able to get through and I dont expect that change.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Your question please.
Thank you.
The partial interest in the Seventh Street retail buildings in the Coconut Grove District can you say what the percent of the investment is? Craig its ranges anywhere from 20% to 80% asset-by-asset and I think whats important here is that we have got a [indiscernible] position in these asset which we believe we will accrete overtime.
In each of these seven building are located or separate buildings are located on the primary shopping streets within the Grove.
So in addition to the dominant position weve established with Coco these building will allow us to leverage the street and benefit of what were doing in Coco around over time.
So you should expect to see us make some additional investments in these particular assets overtime as well as potentially acquire other building in that submarket.
Okay I was just  youre answered is good.
Its only to help facilitate the restructuring youre also trying to take advantage of such sort of collateral improvement to the neighborhood? Correct.
Okay.
And then the $150 million to $250 million would that include an expansion its sound like it would require some major physical restructuring.
Yes.
It was  and its not just couple of other assets that Im referring to two and its frankly as the number out of the air at this point in time.
But as we underwrite these things and figure out what it is that we could do with them yes youre all right that there would significant physical changes to the assets.
But youre still thinking about focusing on that local consumer.
Very much Sir.
Great Okay Thats really what we see is the benefit of where we are and the opportunity [indiscernible] market in terms of an unreserved population.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Hi Haendel.
So understanding your balance sheet philosophy of always having sufficient liquidities fund your business is accretively in avoid and attracted capital raises.
Im curious given the strength of your balance sheet today with your lower roll leverage is very low floating rate.
That is wondering how you are thinking about incremental debt from here.
It appeared about you have capacity thats [indiscernible] that and as we had into higher rate environment that lower cost floating rate leverage could be a competitive advantage in acquisition precedes given the low yield environment.
So just curious on your thought there.
I appreciate the question Haendel and with the recent debt activity that weve done.
Weve significantly standard our tenure and its always [indiscernible] to on the call that does give us flexibility as we go forward to layer and perhaps in floating rate that or place in different parts of the yield curve and still keep up  and a weighted average tenure that would be the longest in our sector.
And I think from a long-term perspective having some footing right that is part of the balance sheet albeit a conservative level 15% or so is a good long-term structure.
But what weve been doing opportunistically really the last couple of years just taking advantage of our rates have been and the flatness of the yield curve to get a very healthy Wells Fargo debt maturity profile.
Appreciate that.
A question on tenure of conversation with central pillar is  understand that competition for high quality assets.
Its pierced on the capital chasing a higher quality retail asset.
But curious given the recent rate [indiscernible] thats changing the tenure conversations perhaps making more potential pillar willing to come to the table seeing anything notable on that front.
I dont think its changed at all at this point sellers are pricing expectations and Jeff please comment as well.
I do think we both at seen an additional level of activities that perhaps we didnt see in the prior 12 months but again its a very expensive environment and difficult to be successful and fully marketed transaction.
Yes Jim I [indiscernible] absolutely more people willing to talk and more people thinking about selling but its a pricing market.
Got you okay.
And then last one here of some color on the [indiscernible] ramped up a bit to let see [indiscernible] square foot well above your low-single digit reset trend.
Can you talk a bit about whats behind that is it quality space being leased specifically is coming to a reflection perhaps if you are having some If not  yes thanks Haendel.
That is one particular transaction Don mentioned the rollover of the space in Shirlington its the theatre renewal where we are investing some capital into a higher end maybe experience with the reserve seating and better dining options there that we think were really complement whats going on in Shirlington.
So a bit of anomalies if you will but great return on that incremental invested capital.
Can you share with that return was.
I not prepared to do that now just well above our typical returns.
Fair enough thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Omotayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
Congrats on the quarter.
I guess my question really is around developments and redevelopments I mean its clear there is a lot of opportunity within the portfolio to do a lot of that and kind of create the next Pike &amp; Rose are create the next Assembly Row but I guess what I'm still struggling with just how to give you full credit for that in you NAV.
I'm hoping maybe you can give us maybe kind of a bit more of a roadmap of just how much kind of development redevelopment you expect to do with the next few years? And what could likely come up next? I guess Pike 7 the next big one we should be watching or even if we can get some type of roadmap to kind of guidance to that.
Well Omotayo I really appreciate the question and something that we talk a lot about in one-on-ones and other meetings.
And we do intend to address a bit more fully at our Investor Day at the end of September.
But look back at our plan and I think one of the things you can reliably expect us to execute upon is $250 million to $300 million plus a year of development spend that will be in these existing assets that we have in control today.
And when we look at that long-term pipeline its a pipeline that stretches well beyond ten years.
So but to that more detailed question in terms of trying to get folks more granularity we will do that at our Investor Day.
All right.
We will stay tuned then.
Hey let me add one thing to that I dont remember I dont remember I should whether you were at assembly at our Investor Day two years ago.
Yes I was.
That the amount of thought and strategy and looking at opportunity to figure out whether we could make the comment that we could double our NOI in ten years and what it would take to do that that wasnt just an investor presentation.
There was a lot of work that went behind that and we are now two years into the ten and we are right on it and it certainly looks like at least for year three that well continue to that.
And I dont  I would hope that you would see that all the way through.
That all includes the number that Jim just talked to you about in terms of $150 million $200 million a year it does include additional ideas about acquisitions like what we are talking about here in Miami.
So if you kind of go back and look at that and I know thats online right.
Weve got that on website.
Yes.
To be able to see thats how were trying to run the company.
Its really on a secret.
Its really something that we are as best we can try and to run the company on.
And yes there are more specifics as specific phases and pieces get added on but it gives a pretty good overall idea of what everybody Weilminster and Berkes and Taylor and that would allow all of us are on.
And I dont know thats all I would say just look at that because there is a lot of good data in that.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
Your question please.
Good morning.
Hi Al.
Hey how are you? Just a few questions here the first is the pace that your acquisition activity in South Miami is pretty impressive.
Especially you look at your other markets and it takes long time to get at individual assets.
So is there something in particular going on like is there sort of a generational shift down in that South Miami market where either people did own stuff a long time are getting towards retirement looking at selling or what sort of driving the sudden flurry of the deals that were seeing from you guys out of that one market.
Ill tell you where I going that Alex that is the benefit of a local partner.
It is yes all of these have effectively been sourced through that local partner.
That local partner was somewhere along the way on each of those deals and back of the question from before thats  that is the one of the benefits that offsets the more complexity and everything else so its there with it.
So I think and again well be able to talk about it more when we in a few weeks when do you see the second half.
But these are marketing assets that are not necessarily marketed to the full extent and there is no question that having that local knowledge allows us to look at things with a more refined eye.
So that in that case is the reason for that.
Okay.
And then Jim Taylor question in guidance the pending acquisition is not in there.
But if we look at the balance sheet of your cash flow just $22 million at quarter end then you guys bought back $150 million and your line of credit is $106 million.
So it sounds like there is a bond offering in the back half.
Is that in your guidance or thats not in your guidance? We do anticipate and I said in our guidance longer term debt issuance in the latter half of the year.
But weve got the flexibility from a timing perspective that if the market is not there or away.
So but thats in our guidance.
Okay great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Mueller of J.P.
Morgan.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Hey Jim when you were talking about leasing spreads I think you mentioned something about spreads in the second half of the year something along those lines being stronger or above average.
And I was wondering if you can just give us a little more color on that.
Its from what we can see right now the leasing team continues to do a phenomenal job of rolling tenants and leasing space.
So we expect that to be pretty strong.
As Ive always said its hard to look at a particular quarter and see a trend.
You really to need to look over several quarters and in fact with this company over a decade of experience and you can see that we traditionally average in the mid teens.
Earlier in the year we had a 8% this quarter we had 15% right.
I certainly see strong signs that will continue to be at or above that historical average.
My teams are excited because there is a big three or four deals that are real good deals in the works that were moving along because it helps themselves put that in the comment.
So thats usually were it comes down to us.
There is  it is our efforts on how go get at under market or underperforming tendency and make it better.
And theres a few of things in the works that are good.
Got it okay.
That was it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from George Auerbach of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thank and good morning.
Jim Im sorry if I missed this but in the first phases of Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly how much NOI is being captured in the second quarter results from the $430 million or so of cost spend to date? And how much of the $430 million has actually been delivered? We had about as I said in the remarks about $3.5 million of NOI.
If you look at Pike &amp; Rose at this point roughly half of it in the first stage has been delivered for a call that we still have the office investment delivering as well as Building 10 which is about a $110 of investment.
Just now beginning to deliver in leased-ups subsequent to the quarter.
And that Assembly we are probably about 70% delivered when you factor in the office which is still delivered.
Thank you.
I mean its the small number compared to what is going be.
Im there is big leg between as you know cash out even delivery and make them generations for board.
Yes  no just  that seems to be one of those themes of earnings season so far and retail especially is giving credit to companies have stabilized or delivered these big developments that will give you stabilized NOI in six months nine months twelve months so just wanted to clarify that.
And Jim just 8% FFO growth on the new 2015 midpoint gets you to kind of low 570 range.
It sounds like X acquisition thats what people should expect next quarter? Are you talking about 2016 are talking about 2015 Im sorry.
Yes for 2016.
Were not providing guidance there what I have that is look George and this is important we continue to invest in the long-term were delivering developments like these Building 10 at Pike &amp; Rose which initially drag NOI.
So again as we look forward we feel very confident about our plan to continue to generate 7% to 9%.
Great.
Thank you.
Please try and now to get you out of ahead of George [indiscernible].
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Metz of UBS.
Your line is open.
Hello.
Hey Jeremy.
Hey good morning guys.
Sorry I had a phone issue a moment roster here.
Just couple of quick ones and I'm not sure if I missed this early in the call but did you say how much capital at share was for the seven street retail assets in Miami.
Yes it was just under $6 million.
Okay.
All in terms of initial investment.
Okay.
And then just switching to asset sales you still have a handful assets you list as other similar to you heaps and streets I was just wondering get those additional assets here given the strength in the market or would it really be more of a timing thing with finding additional acquisitions at this point.
Its a combination of both Jeremy and I dont  nowhere where we can say is that you should expect a closing of a sale of one of those assets in the next few months but I can tell you were looking at hard and the idea is always to try to balance it with our earnings growth within acquisition and make its the most efficient transaction.
So always on the list and you will see every year one or two.
Okay.
And then just one quick one for Jim just in terms of capitalizing interest can you just remind us how you think about capitalizing interest and then when do you stop is that delivery or stabilization.
We stop at delivery.
So when that space is ready to be leased we stop even if its not leased we stop capitalization.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Lucas of Capital One Securities.
Your question please.
Good morning everyone.
One detail question on the I know it was referenced earlier.
I guess you cleaned up the ownership of Pike 7 with the [indiscernible] acquisition I guess does that imply timing or is it just an opportunity to go ahead and clean that up at this point.
Completely opportunistic in terms of when it was.
And we wished we owned it all along its a vacant building on the hard corner of an important asset for us.
So its certainly something that we should own it was not for sale.
And when that opportunity came we jump on we dont play anymore.
Okay.
And then Jim just trying to get a hand along the same-store pool as it relates to  its relationship to the overall operating portfolio at this point given the development deliveries.
Can you give us a sense  to how much the same-store pool makes up for the quarter of the overall operating platform? From an NOI perspective its 95%.
Its still that large? Yes.
Yes.
And thats been pretty consistent I would assume over the last couple of quarters and assume it should stay relatively in that range over the next couple? Yes.
It should and again its an important point because when we look at we look at our NOI we included those assets.
Its substantially all of our portfolios.
Yes Chris that is such an important.
When you know that is not a GAAP measure as you know and therefore there is a lot of interpretation as to what  what same-store numbers means.
So I just  Im really glad you said that because it is virtually all of our analog lot of our analog.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Greg Schweitzer of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
As the lease gets going on the second multi-family at Pike &amp; Rose.
So I was wondering how the progress is stacks up so far.
And [indiscernible] initial expectations? I put a cover in my remarks Craig that  that building is called palace.
It is the [indiscernible] that is what youre referring to right? Right.
Yes.
We just opened it up for leasing at the end of June.
We did 36 deals at or open above or performance in those first deals which is a really good start its a good product.
I mean its a really add some nice contrast to the first building that there  its more upper end and its obviously higher rise versus  stick bills and so that the initial start were underway good start.
Youre having to do anything extra or definitely in terms of marketing or anything like that  versus the first building|? Not so far.
Although I mean we are always looking at  innovative marketing ways.
Weve got some full things that happen.
But with respect to concessions there are some that are market or less than market frankly so far.
I hope that holds up will see at the big building in an 18 process in order to get there.
But the start at least has been  has been strong.
Okay great thanks and then just a quick one on guidance.
Is there still some level of ATM issuance embedded in that for the rest of the year? There is thank you.
You know we expect to another $70 million to $100 million for the balance of the year.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Anthony Hau of SunTrust.
Your question please.
Thanks.
This is Steven.
Just a quick one going back to your CocoWalk asset you thought a $6 million of buildings is this if you had a free met this is the first earning of your land square footage assemblies that around that area or it is kind of halfway through it just given that it seems like the lot more things can by around that neighborhood.
Well Steve but I will tell you its not like with what weve done so far plus what we are planning in the next few weeks is in planning in terms of critical math and that really is that always the first thing can you get critical math that to actually impact a market its really hard to do.
We  its not a good job of that so this is a really good start in terms of landlord its not the first inning I mean its the fixed inning in terms of that what we are it is in terms of redevelopment thought the first pitch hasnt been drawn.
Right.
And I see like  elementary school waiting for the asset is that something that yes I would say its permanent resident or something that maybe you can do something with overtime.
That is a permanent resident.
Very permanent.
One of the attracted things about that sub market is that it has some of the very best schools in South Florida.
So we get great day time traffic in addition to the office over $1 million square feet of office and that And its a magnitude for the folks that we wanted to be at our place.
Okay.
Thats it from me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in queue.
I like to turn the call back over to the conference host Brittany Schmelz.
Maam? Thank you all for joining us.
As weve mentioned we will start to seeing [indiscernible] for additional details in the coming week.
Thank you maam.
That does conclude the program.
Ladies and gentlemen you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Ms.
Brittany Schmelz.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining on the call are Don Wood Jim Taylor Dawn Becker Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
They will be available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Certain matters discussed in this call maybe deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securitize Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operation and it's actual performance may differ materially from the information in our forward-looking statements.
And we can give no assurance that these expectations can be attained.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
These documents are available on our Web site at www.federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our third quarter 2015 results.
Don? Well thank you Britney and good morning everyone.
So we had a big important quarter for the company here with FFO per share of $1.36 a result higher than we ever reported before with 10.6% higher than last year's third quarter.
Starts on the top line with overall revenue growth of 8.4% which flows nicely down overall property level operating income growth of 8.7%.
Somewhat higher G&amp;A from additional personnel and down below the operating line the strength of our balance sheet paid huge dividends in the form of lower interest costs.
If you sit back and you pause for a minute and really reflect on the components of that third quarter P&amp;L you'll start to recognize that the 5 million sources of our growth all contribute here creating what we think is the most balanced and durable set of financial results in the business.
Consider that in this third quarter there are contributions from; Number 1 the big developments that Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose which added nearly $4 million more rent than last year's quarter.
2 Active redevelopments especially in Mercer Shopping Center in New Jersey Westgate Center in San Jose the Peterson Building in Hollywood which along with others resulted in overall same-store growth including redevelopment of 4.2%.
Third same-store growth from the core excluding redevelopment which were only 2% with the results of a purposeful and aggressive towards to get back space for redevelopment along with a tough year-over-year comp caused by lower termination and other fees this year.
Four acquisitions like CocoWalk and San Antonio Center which contributed an incremental $2.4 million in rent over last year and most importantly number 5 our balance sheet and track record that results in one of the lowest cost of debt and equity capital among REITs that really provides a level of P&amp;L flexibility that's enviable.
As an aside our entire debt portfolio with an average maturity over 10 years from now.
As a weighted average interest rate of 4.07%.
So excuse my baseball analogy I know I'm going to be made fun for this but it really fits here.
If Federal were a baseball player it would be referred to as a five tool player.
Five tool players are baseball scouts lingo for a complete baseball player.
One with superior arm strength speed defensive abilities and those who can hit for average and hit for power.
Lee May's is considered one of the best five tool players of all time.
And that's what we are humbly trying to mimic.
Complete players.
It's the completeness of the business plan.
We're not dependent on anyone tool that were most proud of and that was so evident during the third quarter.
Think about that.
Event with 2% same-store growth FFO per share grew over 10% in the quarter and is expected to be over 7% for the year.
Again running this entity with so many arrows in our quiver it gives us great flexibility to be able to take the longer view a view required to maximize real estate value.
I'll talk a little bit more about this because I think it's really important to any investors' decision to own Federal.
When we broke the company up between core and mixed use earlier in the year and brought an additional real estate talent to lead the core Jeff Mooallem Michael Linson Jarett Parker Liz Ryan and others which caused higher level of G&amp;A the way.
We did so in order to ensure that the all-important core portfolio got the attention and aggressive asset management that it deserves to create more value and to continue to act as the strongest possible foundation to the development and acquisition pipeline.
In part that means getting control of space that has long hindered value creation in certain shopping centers.
The A&amp;P bankruptcy led a strike.
We had four.
One A&amp;P one Pathmark and two Walmarts between New Jersey and Long Island.
All four leases had significant value not just to us but to multiple parties.
And if we chose to not participate in the bankruptcy process I'm quite confident that all four leases would've been bought by someone which would have resulted in zero down time and zero lost rent in any of those spaces.
And if our business plan were one-dimensional we might have let that happen.
But we didn't.
Nearly 185 000 feet of space and over $3 million of same-store occupancy and rent went out the door and by the way we had to pay millions of dollars to get the right to lose all that income beginning this month.
We've taken an educated and calculated gamble that $6 million plus investment plus a year or more of downtime would pay back many times over not only in terms of the four walls of these grocery stores which is how a lot of people look at the leases value but for us a by unlocking more significant redevelopment that improve the entire shopping centers.
While same-store growth and occupancy will be negatively impacted in the fourth quarter and certainly for next year the future value of Brick Plaza in [Wilde] [ph] Township New Jersey Troy Shopping Center in Parsippany New Jersey and Melville Mall on Long Island will be far higher when we're done releasing and re-developing.
I don't know if we could have made that decision if same-store growth and year end occupancy were the only considerations.
And yet we could because our FFO per share growth is still expected to be 7% plus in 2015 and we strive to hit FFO per share growth of 7% in 2016.
Okay.
Let's back up and talk about leasing for a moment.
478 000 feet of comparable deals executed in the quarter at an average rent of 2698 19% higher than the 2269 per foot prior tenant was paying; the leasing strength was broad with both new deals and renewals registering double-digit growth as did both anchor and small shop leases.
In addition 19 non-comparable deals done largely on the new developments representing an additional 82 000 square feet of space.
So over 560 000 square feet of deals in a three-month period.
There is plenty of productive leasing being done these days in virtually all markets that we do business in.
That's an important point to focus on at this particular time as we assess the sustainability of the strong retail leasing market.
We're betting that demand for solid retail real estate remains that way due primarily to the limited amount of great real estate locations that are available.
Most good stuff is pretty well leased out.
You can see it of the occupancies of most high-quality portfolios.
Here is why that represents a particularly good opportunity.
We're going to consciously take it the other way for a while.
As I mentioned earlier we're aggressively tasking our core team to go hard after space farming retailers and part because we want to use these favorable economic conditions to release them now.
We expect to have more anchor vacancies to attack in the next few quarters than we've had in years.
The A&amp;P supermarket I discussed our only one example.
LA Fitness is former Valley's location and our Grant Park Shopping Center in Arlington Virginia it's another example.
We're getting pretty close to our redevelopment plan that makes financial sense at that center that requires us to get that and adjacent space back in order to control enough of the shopping center to be able to execute the redevelopment.
Of course it's downtime and lost rent in the meantime.
The Hudson Trail closure resulting from that company's bankruptcy at Montrose Crossing that many of you remembered from the Investor Day is another that could give us just the flexibility we've been looking for at that end of the shopping center.
Of course it's downtime and lost rent in the meantime.
But basically because of our big developments beginning to contribute our redevelopments already in process acquisitions like CocoWalk and Sunset Place and a low leverage of balance sheet with a favorable cost of capital we believe that the inherent balance of the plan will continue to allow us to grow earnings at roughly 7% annually which is necessary for us to double earnings over 10 years of foundational goals of our company.
So far so good.
And when it comes to those acquisitions and of elements man we have a lot going on.
From continued advancement of the construction and leasing at both Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly to the opening of the Point Development in El Segundo to critical acclaim this quarter to the largest office deal that we've ever done with data mining technology powerhouse Splunk at 500 Santana Row which by the way will create an immediate $75 million or so of value.
So that closing on October 1 of previously referenced Sunset Place in South Miami we have got more going on to keep our five growth buckets fully productive than ever before.
Let me give you a few more updates on those big projects and then I will turn it over to Jim.
At Pike &amp; Rose we had a strong quarter in terms of residential leasing and by the way I want to thank many of you for joining us there for the Investor Day about a month ago.
As we reported in the past per se which is this 174 unit first residential building of the project is and remains 95% leased up and you remember that leasing began on the high-rise building we call Pallas over the summer.
We currently already have 100 of the 319 units in that building leased that's faster than we anticipated and rent in line with our pro formas.
The update isn't is positive on the construction site as cost overruns largely on and around the faade and the skin of the high-rise building both material cost and labors will overrun by approximately $10 million.
Accordingly we reflected that in the 8-K but still expect to complete Pallas lease up as scheduled throughout 2016.
Construction is underway on the second phase.
At Assembly construction on the Partners Healthcare Complex is proceeding very well and we're hopeful that many of the 4000 plus employees expected at that location will begin occupying the space by midyear 2016.
The balance of the second phase of Assembly Row is now underway.
Turning to 500 Santana Row in addition to the strong financial return from this Splunk deal that return brace of trust we're really excited to have the incremental daytime office traffic and the added in complementary parking that it adds surrounding out Santana Row.
With Apple's new headquarters being built just 4 miles down the road and the Splunk deal signed at Santana the rest of the build-out at the balance of Santana Row as well as the 12 acres across the street that we call Santana West will be lower risk and more valuable.
Construction remains on time and on schedule for 2017 rent start in Splunk building.
And finally in South Miami the deal that we have been referring to all year finally closed on October 1 and I trust you've all seen the detail in the acquisition press release.
The demographics surrounding this 10 acres that make up Sunset Place are among the strongest in our portfolio and we're actively looking at redevelopment and re-merchandising plans and schemes.
I'm going to resist talking about those redevelopment plans and schemes in those possibilities until we're confident in what it is that we can do but in the meantime we should yield above 6% on our nearly $100 million investment for 85% before our interest costs.
That is it for my prepared remarks I will turn it over to Jim and I look forward to your questions afterwards.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
As Don alluded to this quarter represented yet another record for us at $1.36 per share and just pausing on FFO for a moment I would like at the outset to recognize the contribution of the entire Federal team from leasing operations development and investments many of them you got to meet at our Investor Day last month who delivered these outstanding results.
Turning to the numbers overall POI grew at 8.7% over the prior year in line with our long-term plan.
The largest single driver of that growth was our core portfolio which grew at 4.2% on a same-store basis including redevelopment.
Given the volume of properties that we have under redevelopment that pool represents approximately 95% of our total POI.
Our same-store pool excluding redevelopment activity which is a smaller percentage grew at 2%.
We realized about 70 basis points of drag from year-over-year differences in term fees and certain one-time fees.
Other drag on same-store POI growth which began to show this quarter and will accelerate as Don alluded to and I will cover in guidance associated with roll over contributed another 30 basis points of drag.
When you consider the roll over that we are achieving from a leasing perspective which was 19% on a cash basis and has averaged 70% over the last four quarters this timing lag or downtime is very opportune as we release the space in a very strong market.
The balance of POI growth was driven by development deliveries collectively Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly contributed $3.5 million of POI this quarter and the successful integration of the San Antonio Center and CocoWalk acquisitions both of which are performing very well against our initial acquisition underwriting.
G&amp;A increased $1 million year-over-year largely due to higher personnel costs and placement fees as we invest in our platform for growth.
Again we will cover in guidance but we expect our G&amp;A margin remained below 5% of revenue.
Interest expense declined $1.7 million due primarily due to the reduction in our weighted average interest rate from 4.7% to 4.1% which was offset by a lower interest capitalization as we continue to deliver development.
Bottom line FFO per share grew at 10.6% in the quarter followed by the long-term plan.
Turning to the balance sheet we opportunistically accessed the debt markets in late September capitalizing on favorable pricing dynamics at the five-year part of the curve and issued $250 million of 2.55% senior notes and at all-time low spread for us of 110 basis points.
This issuance moved our weighted average tenure beyond 10 years versus the peer average closer to five.
We utilized the proceeds to term out borrowings under the line of credit which had full capacity of $600 million at quarter end providing more than enough liquidity to fund the growth that we have underway.
Our debt to EBITDA remains strong at 5.25x and our fixed charge coverage improved to 4.5x.
On the acquisition front as Don alluded to we successfully closed on October 1 on the acquisition of Sunset Place for total price of $110 million.
As we discussed in our Investor Day we are pleased that within the last six months we have successfully deployed almost $200 million of capital into two in-fill assets in Coconut Grove and South Miami.
These two assets not only provide an attractive current yield in a 6% range importantly that present great upside potential through redevelopment and repositioning to better serve the affluent and year around populations of South Miami-Dade.
Looking at the balance of 2015 we've increased our FFO guidance range to 530 to 533.
This range is based on our expectation that we will achieve same-store NOI for the full year of 3.5% which reflects the downtime Don mentioned for approximately 184 000 square feet on the three A&amp;P locations as well as an additional 60 000 square feet of box space associated with Hudson Trail and City Sports that we're taking over this quarter.
Assuming our leasing with Static which never is that would represent about 120 basis points of occupancy.
As we expect our same-store NOI to be low in the fourth quarter.
Looking ahead to 2016 this is another big year for the company in terms of NAV creation.
For somebody who has to provide guidance it doesn't make it easy but the level of activity just blows me away.
First as Don alluded to we expect to complete the lease up of the 319 unit Pallas high rise of Pike &amp; Rose initial leasing as Don alluded to is going well and we expect that building to stabilize in the fourth quarter of 2016.
We well-experienced in drag through early 2016 as the building achieves breakeven occupancy.
The office space at both Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose which represents approximately $80 million of investment is fully committed and we will continue to see rent commencing through 2016 and early 2017 as those tenants take occupancy.
500 Santana Row our 234 000 square foot office building which represents approximately 120 million of investment is 100% pre-leased and will deliver in 2016 and rent commenced in 2017.
The Point redevelopment at Plaza El Segundo which opened successfully this quarter with strong tenant performance will stabilize in the latter half of 2016.
In addition to the Point and 500 Santana Row this is important we have approximately $85 million of tactical redevelopments stabilizing over the next five quarters.
The partner is building at Assembly Row as Don alluded to will deliver with over 4500 employees taking occupancy in the latter part of 2016.
We will grand open Saks OFF 5TH in our old headquarters basement space at Congressional in addition to stabilizing the storage residential building.
We'll be well underway on the second phase as the Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly that represent another $600 million of investment and we will begin delivering in 2017 and 2018.
And finally as we've covered in some detail we will be re-leasing the LA Fitness and A&amp;P and other boxes in our core portfolio that we have recaptured this year.
We expect our 2016 FFO per share to be in the range of $5.65 to $5.71 per share or approximately 7% growth at the midpoint.
That growth of 7% remains at the top of the estimates for our peer group none of whom have yet provided 2016 guidance.
It is consistent with our long-term plan and reflects some critical investments in future value creation and consistent growth that we discussed at length at our Investor Day.
Those investments include a balance sheet with weighted average debt tenor of over 10 years.
Debt to market cap of 21% that importantly provides us maximum flexibility to fund our long-term value creation at the lowest positive capital.
Downtime associated with the targeted recapture of the A&amp;P and LAF in 2016 represents approximately $5 million or almost $0.07 per share or 100 basis points of same-store NOI.
That targeted box recapture is on top of an additional $6 million or almost $0.08 a share of downtime associated with the roll over of larger box spaces is in our portfolio.
To provide some overall context the average downtime in our same-store portfolio associated with all roll over in the last five years has been on average about $10 million to $11 million of impact.
That downtime impacted 2016 is approximately $70 million.
That's importantly as Don alluded to we are investing in NAV creation while our near-term same-store NOI is expected to be in the 3% to 3.5% range for the year.
Approximately $2.5 million of incremental marketing spend the we're investing to ensure that the critical first phases of our mixed use developments opened successfully as well as starting to market the condos that we will deliver in the second phases of the Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose.
As I discussed at our Investor Day so these new urban neighborhood successfully stabilize this cost center becomes a potential revenue opportunity.
Over $1 million of redevelopment R&amp;D as we continue to fill our pipeline of redevelopment -- excuse redevelopment R&amp;D as we continue to fill our redevelopment pipeline.
We expense these costs until the projects are probable.
As Don mentioned our core team is actively engaged in executing upon needs and identifying new opportunities for the future.
And then finally higher G&amp;A that we expect to be approximately $34 million to $35 million as we invest in growing the team.
But we will always stay disciplined as we maintain the G&amp;A margin among the lowest in our peer group.
As always our guidance for the next year does not include any acquisitions or dispositions that is not already closed.
However we do expect to remain active on both front and will update guidance as those transactions occur.
We've covered a lot but before I turn it back to the operator to open the line let me thank all of you who attended the Investor Day last month.
Your turnout was terrific.
We've had great feedback and as always greatly appreciated the opportunity to connect with our earners and analysts.
We look forward to seeing many of you again in a week or so at NAREIT to the extent you haven't reserved the spot on the calendar please do so soon.
With that operator I would like to turn it over for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could give a sense of the direction that maybe the new tenants that shop at Sunset Place may take versus -- I was expecting the question.
I was hoping it wasn't the first question.
Listen I do want to talk about Sunset Place a little bit.
Look you may have heard the former owner of Sunset Place Simon Property Group is pretty darn good at what they do.
If it were an easy fix and there was an easy way to create a lot of value in 12 months or something else like that they would have done it.
So I don't want to talk about that just yet.
There's a lot of complexity with it.
Basically when you look at the going in yield and the going in price we basically said all right there is enough cushion based on what that location is and what you would have to pay for a perfect assets.
There's enough cushion over that to give us the opportunity.
Give us the time to take the chance to see if we can find a better merchandising scheme or better physical plant see if we can make the numbers make some sense and which includes -- which will include a new entitlement process et cetera.
So that will take -- it will take a couple of years.
It will take some time.
So I don't want to get out ahead.
I don't really want to have anything in your mind.
I would love to just kind of take it for what it is.
And when we start talking about a way to create value that we see pay for it then give us credit for it then.
But at this point I'm really not ready to do that.
Okay.
And then maybe if you have any observations about Macy's backstage opening at Melville I would like to hear it.
I actually don't know how they open in terms of numbers.
I should know that but Chris Weilminster do you have any information you can add? Craig it's still a little bit early for us to report on that.
We've not gotten much information back from Carl or his team.
So unfortunately I do not have any better answer than Don provided.
Okay.
We will be ready to talk about that next time Craig.
Okay.
Thanks.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
It seems like you made some parts of leasing at Congressional Plaza and Pentagon Row could you talk a little bit about that? And maybe just putting it all together your guidance or same-store NOI of 3% to 3.5% which I assume includes redevelopment.
What is that look like if there wasn't someone that is kind of proactively leasing and A&amp;P? Well I mean 100 basis point in and of itself.
A&amp;P and LAF alone is about 100 basis points.
So and again Ki Bin when you put the context of what we're doing overall because roll over happens every year.
Downtime happens every year.
Over the last several years our average downtime has been about $10 million to $11 million just in our same-store portfolio this year it is going to be about $17 million.
So it gives you a sense of the scale and scope of the drag on what we're getting after.
Just A&amp;P and LAF alone from an occupancy standpoint would be approximately 180 bps of occupancy.
So just those are pretty meaningful.
Again nothing is static.
Chris and team continue to be very active on the leasing front but even if we get that space leased as you understand it will take some time before that rent commences.
So that's what we're forecasting for 2016.
Hey Ki Bin the only thing I would add to that is you may remember from the Investor Day we did spend a lot of time on Congressional because we really did want you to see what a dominant shopping center -- how it can still our value effectively 50 years after we bought it.
And show when Saks OFF 5TH opens up there we will also do a refresh to the front end of that shopping center which we believe will help us in our re-leasing of all the shop space that is there not to mention 50 additional units residential units on the back of the shopping center.
So this is all tied in.
That is not specific to LAF or to A&amp;P.
But we are getting after those type of situations throughout the portfolio.
Not just the two big ones that we mentioned.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citi.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
I heard you mention a couple occupancy numbers associated with the downtime was it 120 basis points or was it 180 basis points I think you just mentioned.
No.
I'm sorry I misspoke.
Thank you for clarifying that.
With the A&amp;P and LAF it's about 120 basis points of occupancy.
Okay.
And so when should we expect that to be fully in the numbers as we kind of think about as we go through 2016 and what quarter would you expect to be sort of a trough in terms of the year-over-year occupancy decline? As you look into the year we are going to be seeing the drag really not only this quarter but at least for the next three quarters into 2016.
As we go into the fourth quarter of 2016 we expect to see some of that improved.
Christy anchor leasing I'm sure Weilminster is smiling on -- he is not in the office with us he is at a remote location but I'm sure he is smiling.
In Anchor leasing getting those deals done and new deals done getting that space built out getting the tenants in and paying rent will take at least a year.
And just -- that's what it takes.
That is in the math of what we consider.
When we consider aggressively going after in A&amp;P or whatever it is we are not believing that six months from now that space is up and operating in rent payment.
It just doesn't work that way.
So financially we are considering a full 12 months and in some cases 15 months of downtime before its back in the numbers.
Got you.
And if you think about sort of all the rent that you're losing on all this space and aggregate what do you think could be potentially the mark-to-market on that space or some sort of a range relative to the spreads that you been generating? I would hope that you see something like 25% 30% or maybe more percent.
Okay.
And then just lastly how do you think about selling assets today just for the fund growth versus accessing the ATM? Well let me talk about asset sales for a second because this is something that it never -- it always kind of hangs underneath the radar for us.
But when you look back there is always a level of assets sales no not as much as our competitors.
We don't need to do as much as our competitors in there.
But when you see the assets on Houston Street and San Antonio Texas sold this year you will see by the end of the year I suspect we have got another one on the contract to sell -- you will see that too if that deal goes through.
You'll see another one next year.
There's all these going to be $50 million or so of trading up.
One of the things you kind of get me a little bit earlier than I wanted to talk about it.
But I'm going to be showing you maybe not for a NAREIT but maybe we will see if we can be ready.
The past couple of years of assets that have been sold versus what it is that we have bought.
And you will clearly although it is a little dilutive it's not as dilutive as most of our competitors would necessarily be because we get good prices even on what we are selling vis--vis what we are buying.
You will see a real improvement in the overall portfolio if you just think about San Antonio Center that we brought in Northern California in and Houston Street San Antonio Texas out the difference is night and day and we're going to show you two or three or four more examples like that on a portfolio basis.
But figure around 50.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Hi it's Jim.
Sticking with the occupancy.
So just to clarify are you saying in Q4 that's where we're going to start to see it's going to be down about 120 year-over-year.
That's the first part.
And the second part is I think Don mentioned possibly accelerating this and recapturing being more practical recapturing some other boxes.
So if we're thinking about 2016 if you got the 120 dip for those two tenants should we expect more on top of that.
Yes.
Thank you.
In fact of the fourth quarter that dip could be as low as 150 or as high as 150 basis points of occupancy based on some of the other boxes that we're getting after.
So as we look forward and as I mentioned and put it in context we are seeing substantially more downtime and lag in the coming year associated with this targeted recapture and taking over the space.
Got it.
Okay.
And then going to Pallas the apartments I think you said stabilized in the fourth quarter you mentioned breakeven to occupancy.
What exactly is a breakeven occupancy at what level and do you think you'll open there.
Our breakeven occupancy there is going to be 40% to 50% range somewhere in there we begin to cover the operating cost.
It depends of course on the mix of units that are in that 40% to 50%.
We expect to be there towards the end of the first quarter early second quarter.
So my comment is meant to point out that early in the year that building will be dragging from an NOI perspective.
As Don mentioned we are on target in terms of our pro forma rents.
And as we deliver units we're seeing good appetite.
But with this building we're delivering units as we go up the building.
And it's the pace of construction more than anything else dictating that timing.
Got it.
And one last one here.
For 2016 guidance what's assumed for equity raise? We expect to raise probably about $150 million for the year.
Got it.
Okay.
That was it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is now open.
Hey how you are doing? Just a couple of quick questions.
The first part as you look at the anchor boxes you are taking down and remerchandising what portion of those do expect over the next year to be once that is kind of come back to you that you didn't really seek out and then how much that's proactive? And then I guess the second part of that is why now on the proactive front is this what you feel like is kind of the peak leasing season over the cycle or is it just now it's good as time as any? Jason let me take the last part first and yes there is no doubt look this for 2009 or 2010 the approach would be a different approach.
And it would be about maintaining that income stream the best we can.
When we look at 2016 it's not only that we feel strong.
I'm going to ask Weilminster to comment on this when I'm done.
But it's not only that we expected to be -- to remain strong in terms of demand exceeding supply on the particular location and in the particular boxes that we're talking about.
But we have other ways to grow the company.
And so on balance I mean I'm not sure how many of the competitors are out there are going to grow at 7% next year or certainly 7% this year 7% next year 7% two years ago more.
I mean it's probably 25% over the last three years something like that.
I don't know how many competitors have that and I do think that's because of all of the tools we have.
So when you take the other ways we have to grow coupled with what we believe about the particular anchor boxes that we are purposely trying to upgrade the tenancy on and upgrade the shopping centers on this seems like the right time to do it aggressively.
And by the way we are paying more G&amp;A for more individuals who have smaller portfolios from which to create value and so that better half more aggressive management of those particular acre boxes.
It all works together at this particular time.
That is our bet.
Okay.
So on the first part what's the breakdown of -- as you look over the next 12 to 18 months is it most of these came back to you because the retailer is underperforming or is there a larger chunk that you are proactively seeking.
Could you give us a couple of examples but just in terms of magnitude? Yes.
On the anchor stuff it's by far mostly stuff that we are proactively going after.
It is the A&amp;P.
It is the LA Fitness.
Some of those smaller stuff which is included in there Hudson Trail which is a local or a regional sporting goods company going bankrupt is we wouldn't have aggressively wanted it back.
Now it opens up some good things but we wouldn't have aggressively wanted it back.
The same with City Sports which is in both Bethesda and Pike &amp; Rose.
We wouldn't have chosen this timing.
But we get it.
Because we're in the right locations we still think it will be a good thing but it's a lot on top of those anchor boxes that are primarily proactively aimed for.
Okay.
Then when you look at Pike &amp; Rose yields have gone from 8 to 9 to 7 to 8 down to 7 and I think that's largely because of some rent from the first part and then some apartment rents and then some cost overruns.
Is this just a pretty typical of complex mix used or would you say these are more one-off related to Pike &amp; Rose that shouldn't be kind of extrapolated across many of your mixed-use projects going forward.
I would not.
I think when you specifically look at Pike &amp; Rose Pike &amp; Rose in the first phase is largely residential.
When you are talking about largely residential you are talking about 12 month leases.
And we had a Board meeting down in Miami yesterday and I was talking to the Board about this.
The reality is that and I don't mean to say this in a cavalier way I don't mean to come across that way but so what.
To the extent we missed the rent in a 12 month lease on a residential product to start because of more supply in the market because of whatever economic conditions that there are 12 months from then we'll have another chance 12 months from then we will have another chance since that.
And they would have been no different investment decision made.
It takes a seven years from beginning to end to do this.
You are never going to get.
Sometimes you get lucky and you are in the peak of the part of cycle where the residential rents are higher sometimes the opposite.
But you wouldn't have made a different decision.
In terms of the cost I feel differently about that.
I mean we've got cost overruns on that high-rise in particular that I wish we didn't have.
That is value that is gone.
So it is a different type of thing.
I think that's a mixed-use thing? No.
I don't.
I think that's a screw up on that particular design and implementation and construction project.
So I wouldn't take that and extrapolate that all along.
When you are talking about retail deals we're dealing with much longer term leases into that office you are certainly talking about longer-term leases.
So I view them a little differently.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Canaccord.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
What's your total dollar value invested in redevelopment next year and your funding mechanisms for that you mentioned $150 million in the ATM but how far do you think in terms of your redevelopment cost? Our total spend is going to be approximately $400 million of development and redevelopment.
Of that probably $50 million to $60 million are spend during the year is going to be pure tactical redevelopment.
And from a funding standpoint we do expect to be issuing about $150 million of equity.
We will potentially have some asset sales as Don alluded to and then as always free cash flow to fund that.
Okay.
Great.
And then just a little bit more macro I mean can you talk about how you are seeing the supermarket business at the moment.
I mean there's been a lot of news over the past quarter between the bankruptcies and whether it's Walmart on one end or Whole Foods on the other.
And maybe then kind of more narrowly as you look at things like the A&amp;P spaces do those necessarily go in the supermarket direction or could there be other uses as you look at really the anchor space or doing something similar to redevelopment there? It's a good question Paul.
And Chris I'd like you to chime in on this start.
Let's start on the macro question with -- what you see in the supermarket business.
Yes.
We're seeing for our -- again I think about our portfolio and then look more macro on a macro basis there is certain -- there is demand.
We are seeing it certainly in our assets and I think there are some of larger companies that are out there whether it's -- looking at a small store concept to get more urban located it whether it's Kroger trying to figure out a way to grow its [indiscernible] footprint differentiate its brands a little bit more or Whole Foods working on the 365.
There's a lot of focus on these brands and/or the company is figuring out different platforms to grow.
And so when you then think about that to what it means to Federal when you look at our high-quality of assets surrounded by the best-in-class demographics they very much have an interest in it.
So the three locations the A&amp;P's that we have there there is interest from groceries and all of those locations.
In addition to that there is interest with other players that are out there.
We talk to at the Investor Day about the soft goods categories looking for growth whether that's Macy's Nordstrom Rack HBC Saks OFF 5TH concepts.
We have demand in some of the category killers that are out there the pet categories the shoe categories the cosmetic categories.
All of these players are looking for growth opportunities.
And with the limited amount of new supply that has entered the market opportunistically with the great piece of real estate Federal Realty certainly takes advantage of that demand that is out there.
So we're clearly -- you may see some groceries backfilling some of the portions of what those A&amp;P boxes were but we're looking at all opportunities unfortunately for us we've got the demand from different categories.
Don you want to take it from there? Yes.
Paul I wanted to say something more macro to you.
First of all and that is there is not a retail category.
And certainly grocers are not exempted from this.
That isn't trying to figure out who they are going to be how they are going to service.
How they're going to improve their investment pieces over the next 5 to 7 years.
Every category is impacted.
And grocers are no different.
It's funny.
It's why a long time ago I just did not want to be seen as a grocery anchored shopping center company.
The idea of being opened when you listen to Chris Weilminster's speech you can tell that his view of the retail world is not grocery centric.
And as that business is struggling in parts of it just like women's fashion is struggling just like hard goods are trying to figure themselves out just like banks are trying to figure out how to reach retail customers.
Every industry the grocery business too.
It does come down to having the right place where demand will exceed supply into the extent that demand can be beyond grocers go better.
Having said that it's real clear to us that particularly in at least two of the four and probably more of the A&amp;P boxes they are great grocery locations.
So we do believe there will be negotiations with better grocers for those boxes.
In addition as Chris says a wider plethora of retailers.
Great.
Thanks.
That was helpful.
Just real quick is there anything in the acquisition pipeline that you can see closing by year end? Not by year end.
No.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just sticking with the A&amp;P's I know you gave the average in place rents on those $11.64 just curious what the order of magnitude is on the mark-to-market do you think? I said Vince somewhere like 25% to 30% maybe more.
Okay.
Sorry I missed that.
That's okay.
That's fine.
I mean let me be really clear.
The capital necessary to not only get those boxes but to absorb the downtime and put in the rest of the shopping centers as compared with the incremental rent not just from that box but including that box and everywhere else in that shopping center is the math we're doing to figure out what kind of IRR and value creation we're making at those shopping centers.
There will be a time whenever you want to go in the next year or so I'm going to take you to Brick Township Brick Plaza in Brick Township New Jersey and you'll see exactly what I'm talking about if you're only looking at those four walls you're missing the point.
Right.
No that makes sense.
Just on the -- to do just get outbid on that one? On the fourth one we did.
We thought we put up a decent number and we were blown out of the water by another grocery operator.
Got it.
Got it.
I'm sorry.
I just wanted to make one point I'm sorry I'm not in the room with Don but I think one thing is important about these A&amp;P leases with Brick Melville and Troy that everybody should understand and Don is touching on it.
But we inherited those leases those weren't leases that we had and they were very much encumbered with restrictions on other categories and other uses that we know demand exists.
So I just want to make sure that in addition everything Don is talking about that you guys understand that this does unlever our ability to go after categories that we were not able to do and when we renegotiate leases or when we find replacement tenants we will maintain that flexibility as well as hopefully future out parcel development.
I think it's really important so it was not only getting it back to control end density of the space but it really does from a leasing standpoint unlever our ability to really add value with more relevant retail which is what we need to stay connected with our communities.
Yes.
That makes sense.
Just maybe one last question.
For Jim just I know you've talked about sort of the difficulty in projecting out earnings given the amount of development that's going on and sort of the timing of all of that.
And certainly that can shift to here and there.
But I was just curious that guidance range that you provided is pretty tight.
I think it's only about 1% spread at the midpoint.
Just curious what gives you the confidence to have it so tight given the -- You are making me nervous.
Vince I'm curious too.
We feel pretty good that we're going to end up in that range but you make an important point.
And I think it goes to the reputation that some of you have alluded to about our being conservative in our forecast.
We have a range for a reason.
And a lot of the things that in part volatility as it relates to quarterly number what we'll be seeing next year we are very positive about all of the activity that can generate that but it certainly can move things around in the year.
But we feel comfortable with that range albeit I'm sure that a lot of you are going to go right to the top of the range and we provide a range for a reason.
And so that's what it is.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Brittany Schmelz for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
We look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT later this month.
As we mentioned if you're not already done so please do feel free to reach out to reserve one of the remaining slots in our meeting schedule.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference this does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great today.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Federal Realty Investment Trust Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Leah Andress.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today for Federal Realty's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Jim Taylor Dawn Becker Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
They will be available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Certain matters discussed on this call maybe deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information in our forward-looking statements.
And we can give no assurance that these expectations can be attained.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of Risk Factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.
These documents are available on our website at federalrealty.com.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don Wood to begin our discussion of our fourth quarter and year-end 2015 results.
Don? Well thanks Leah and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Again I certainly look forward to seeing all or most of you in a few weeks at the Citi Conference Florida where we can talk more about our company and our industry.
I also want to thank so many of you for the recognition good wishes that you conveyed with the announcement of our admission into the S&amp;P 500 late last month.
I think our whole team feels particularly proud and your nice words made it even sweeter.
So thank you all.
Now let's talk about 2015 results and 2016 expectations.
And start off by noting that FFO per share of $1.37 in the quarter and $5.32 for the year before early extinguishment at costs are both all time records for our company and represent 7% quarterly FFO per share growth and 7.7% annual FFO per share growth.
Now just to put that growth into context.
We always try to walk the top when it comes to taking a long-term view on our business plan.
And that includes sometimes doing things that diminished certain quarterly metrics by same-store growth and occupancy from mid and long-term value enhancements.
That is why went out on a limb a few years back before Assembly Row opened to lay out plans double our income over the next decade.
That was in 2013 when we subsequently finished the year with 7% earnings growth only to follow that with 7.2% growth in 2014 and now 7.7% growth in 2015.
If you're aware of the Rule 72 you'll note that we're on or a bit ahead of schedule so far so good.
And what the first phases of the big development projects coming into their own and the second phase is now underway along with the raw material for future growth that we acquired in Miami and California lately we are as optimistic today if not more so than we were back in 2013 as to our ability to double by 2023.
For us it's more important than ever to have and execute on our long-term consistent and sustainable plan that relies less on outside on controllables and more on the execution within our own portfolio.
We are really proud of that.
All right.
So what does it mean for 2016 expectations? Well first it means that we're planning on 6% or 7% FFO growth this year marginally lower than where we've been but strong nonetheless.
Because of the conscious and aggressive effort that we spoke about on last quarter's call to actively create anchored vacancy by replacing weak tenants with stronger ones.
And more importantly unlocking redevelopment opportunities at a number of our larger core shopping centers and that was before the most recent news about Sports Authority where we have five locations generating $3.4 million in annual rent.
All good news for the future and providing more growth in value long before 2023 was dilutive to same-store growth and occupancy connect.
Hopefully you will remember my remarks from my last quarter's call that attempted to prepare investors for the impact that strategy would have on those metrics in the fourth quarter that we just reported and continuing through 2016.
Well I promise to spare you the five tool baseball player analogy on this call I've heard plenty about that from you from most of you over the last three months; I do want to update you on the plan.
To recap when we broke the company up between core and mixed-use earlier in the year and brought in additional real estate talent to lead the core which by the way caused a higher level of G&amp;A.
We did so in order to ensure that the all-important core portfolio got the attention and aggressive asset management that it deserves.
The objective is for the core to produce even more value and continue to act as the strongest possible foundation to the development and acquisition pipeline.
In part that means getting control of space that has long hindered value creation in certain shopping centers.
You'll remember that we spoke about the A&amp;P mix which was the most obvious example and we had four: one A&amp;P one Pathmark and two Waldbaum's all in New Jersey and Long Island.
While four leases have significant value to multiple parties certainly that we chose not to participate in that bankruptcy process I'm very confident that with all four leases would've been bought by someone which would have resulted in zero downtime and zero lost rent in any of those spaces.
And if our business plan were one-dimensional we might have let that happen.
But we didn't.
Nearly 185 000 square feet of space that's nearly a full point of occupancy and over $3 million of annual same-store growth that went out the door with the bankruptcy and by the way we had to pay several millions of dollars to get the right to lose all of that income.
Our assessment is that that several million dollar investment plus a year more downtime would pay back many times over not only in terms of the four walls of those grocery stores which is how a lot of people look at the leases value but by unlocking more redevelopment opportunities that improve the entire shopping centers.
While same-store growth and occupancy were negatively impacted in the fourth quarter and will be in 2016 the future value of these and other centers where we employed a similar strategy will be far higher.
We are deep into exploring redevelopment plans on all of our new found opportunities and I'm excited about the possibilities.
Jim will summarize the impacts in his remarks in a few minutes.
Now I don't know if we could have make that decision if we didn't have a clear long-term plan and same-store growth and year-end occupancy were the only considerations.
All right let's back up and talk about leasing for a minute and there is plenty of it happening.
99 deals done in the quarter 88 of them comparable for over 380 000 feet at an average rent of $31.88 23% higher than the $26 per foot the prior tenant was paying.
The leasing strength was broad with both anchor deals and small shop renewals registering double-digit growth.
The tenant improvement dollars per square foot associated with those leases requires explanation because most of it comes from two redevelopment projects.
The Saks OFF 5TH deal at our headquarter site of Congressional Plaza and the Dick Field and Stream deal at Melville Mall on Long Island.
Capital for those deals are both included and considered in the overall return thresholds of the projects so be careful not to double count that capital as both leasing capital and redevelopment capital it's one and the same.
Anyway you look at it these are strong leasing results.
In addition to the 88 comparable deals we also executed 11 non-comparable deals largely on the new development representing an additional 58 000 square feet of space so 440 square feet of deals in a three-month period.
There is plenty of productive leasing being done these days in virtually all markets we do business in.
And we're betting that that will continue in 2016 for our product type and our locations.
And it's why we're consciously trying to get back on the performing anchor space.
We want to use these favorable economic conditions to release.
We see a good sampling of mediocre retailers that have been holding on for years of either giving up A&amp;P Hudson Trail City Sports or who will soon.
We're fine with that.
As I've said are anxious to get it to either release or redevelop.
So I haven't touched on acquisitions or development yet so let me get to the highlights and we've a lot going on.
From continued advancement of the construction and leasing at both Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly to the continued opening of more and more tenants at the very successful point development in El Segundo California the continue disciplined construction of fully leased 500 Santana Row set to house data mining technology powerhouse Splunk by the end of this year to the closing on October 1 of Sunset Place in South Miami where we're aggressively working to develop a plan to better exploit this A-1 location to the unwind of our 11-year joint venture with Clarion through the acquisition of their 70% interest in six shopping centers in suburban Boston New York and DC which by the way creates more fresh powder for redevelopment.
So we got more going on how to keep our five growth buckets fully productive and I can remember my 18 years here.
Let me give you a few more updates on those big projects and then I'll turn it over to Jim.
At Pike &amp; Rose residential lease up continues to progress quite well with over 40% of the building leased at The Pallas as of today at rents that are inline or even a bit better than our underwriting.
The remainder of that residential leasing will require the rest of 2016 through re-stabilization which again is consistent with our expectations.
Secondly we are well underway on the next phase.
The phase II garage is done and open and we've just broken ground in the two largest buildings in phase II this month.
It will take two years to get it all open with a 700 foot plus long Main Street and a sense of place long missing from Rockville Pike.
In Somerville Massachusetts Assembly Row continues to get better and better.
With one of our biggest concerns during the second phase construction being adequate parking and serving surface lots are now on construction.
That's a high class problem for the initial phase of Massachusetts project but it's because this is already a very successfully new neighborhood in the Greater Boston Area it's about to get a whole lot better as partners employees begin occupying the new building by midyear '16.
Very exciting progress there which is clearly spilled over to the adjacent power center where we hope to be making some important merchandizing and economic upgrades in the next few quarters.
In San Jose 500 Santana Row construction is progressing a bit better than we expected in terms of both cost and potentially schedule which if it holds will result in 9% cash on cost yields upon stabilization.
That would make Santana 500 Santana Row the third project in a row with Santana.
Residential projects Lavare and Misora being the first two where the initial revenues exceeded our underwriting.
That is not a fluke.
It speaks to the big picture point about mixed-used projects done well.
While the initial phases that need to create the environment are complicated and often a little less smooth than we would like the long-term value creations were mass duration and incremental development of these ambitious projects is extremely rewarding and incredibly enduring.
Similarly at the point in El Segundo the successfully initial tenant openings at the end of last summer have continued and grown as more and more tenants have opened.
The final couple of spaces are expected to be leased and opened in 2016 again on time on budget.
I don't have a significant update for you today on our property acquisitions in South Florida which are performing as planned as we underwrote them.
Our most senior team including Don Briggs Chris Weilminster and Dawn Becker along with our partner Grass River and Michael Comras are fully immersed in redevelopment mode exploring the art of the possible with city officials retailers and others and that applies to both CocoWalk and Sunset.
Stay tuned there.
And finally last month we concluded a very successful 11-year shopping center joint venture with Clarion Lion Fund by acquiring their 70% interest in Atlantic Plaza and Campus Plaza in Suburban Boston Greenlawn Plaza on Long Island and Free State Shopping Center Plaza del Mercado and Barcroft Plaza in Suburban Washington DC.
And what we felt was a very fair is favorable purchase price of a $154 million.
All of these assets are located in markets we know well and have seen strong growth from.
We've got a number of redevelopment and releasing opportunity with these properties that our new core team is focused on more raw material for future growth.
Okay.
That's enough for me now.
2015 was a very gratifying year for us full of not only measurable accomplishments but as are more importantly the solidification of our planned and structured focused on accelerated value creation throughout the second half of this decade and beyond.
Thank you all for your interest and support.
And I'll now turn over to Jim and look forward to your questions afterwards.
Thank you Don and Leah and good morning everyone.
As Don highlighted our team delivered yet another record for the Trust in terms of FFO per share which is a $1.37 represented 7% growth over the prior year quarter or 7.7% for the full-year.
For the many of you park at the top or just above our guidance that $1.37 was just below the top-end of our previously provided range.
In a quarter where we continue to invest in the future by intentionally taking down additional box vacancy adding to our team selling non-core assets and incurring transactional cost for favorable acquisition we are particularly pleased with the bottom-line results driven by our operation leasing acquisition and development team.
Turing to the numbers.
Overall property operating income grew at 5.9% over the prior year even with the decline in occupancy reflecting higher anchor rollover our core portfolio continue to be a significant driver of POI growth.
That core grew at 2.6% or approximately 3.8% for the full-year on a same-store basis including redevelopment.
As in prior quarters allow me to again emphasize that our same-store pool represents approximately 94% of our total POI.
In other words it represents substantially all of our portfolio and then truly reflects underlying core performance.
This quarter the downtime associated with the anchor rollover we discussed as well as other one-time item produced about a 150 basis points of drag.
We highlighted this trend last quarter.
And as I will discuss further in guidance we expect this rollover drag to begin to ameliorate in the later part of this year resulting in 2016 same-store NOI growth including redevelopment of approximately 3% to 3.5%.
Allow me to pause for a moment.
I can think of very few portfolios that show growth even while taking down occupancies.
That speaks to the bumps embedded in our leases double quarters or double-digit rent rollover growth and the successful delivery of our redevelopment.
Our first phases of Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose contributed approximately $3 million of POI in the quarter down slightly on a sequential basis as the Pallas high-rise opening and the office space deliveries triggered full operating expenses.
The office lease up is complete and tenants will continue to take occupancy through this year and early next.
In addition as Don mentioned the lease up at Pallas is going well and we expect to hit a stabilize occupancy in the fourth quarter of this year.
Finally our acquisitions of CocoWalk and Sunset Place which are performing well against our acquisition underwriting also contributed significantly to our overall POI growth.
G&amp;A remained stable at $8.1 million and interest expense declined $1 million reflecting the lower average rate achieved through our refinancings during the year of 4.1% offset by lower capitalized interest during the quarter as we continue to place development into service.
Again bottom-line FFO grew 7% for the quarter or 7.7% for the year.
That absolute bottom-line performance while we continue to invest in the future is something that team takes great pride in.
From a balance sheet perspective we ended the quarter with $53 million drawn under our $600 million revolver that set the EBITDA 5.3 times weighted average debt tenor of 10 years which together provides maximum flexibility and liquidity to fund all of our growth in NAV creation underway.
Turning to guidance for 2016 we affirm that the previously provided range of $5.65 to $5.71 a share range of growth of approximately 6% to 7% are slightly below our long-term plans.
As we discussed last quarter this was a true range that will be impacted by several variables during the year.
As Don covered in his remarks the targeted box recapture in all of our vacancy drives a significant amount of drags in the year.
The targeted anchor rollover which represents approximately 6 million of downtime in the year or approximately $8 million of annualized rents is driven by 10 of our properties.
The notable spaces include the A&amp;P leases at Troy Melville and Brick the former Hudson Trail space at Montrose Crossing and the former Valley space at Grant Park.
In total the targeted anchor rollover represents approximately 465 000 square feet at some of our very best assets where the investment and downtime this year should pay significant dividends in the future.
And as Don discussed in his remarks we are very excited about the opportunity to unlock value at these centers to redevelopment repositioning and releasing.
Overall we expect to significantly exceed the prior in place rent of approximately 1 350 a foot on these larger spaces.
In short we believe we will drive or deliver better retailers at better rents and significantly improve these assets.
In addition to this investment and future growth there are several other investments in growth to consider from a timing perspective if you look at the year.
I mentioned Pallas and again we expect a stabilization of that approximately $100 million investment to occur in the fourth quarter from an occupancy perspective.
The office states at Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly which represents approximately $80 million of investments is now fully committed and we will continue to see rent commencing throughout the year and early next as tenants take occupancy.
500 Santana Row our 234 000 square foot office building that represents approximately $115 million of investment is 100% pre-leased and will deliver late in the fourth quarter and rent commenced in 2017.
The Point redevelopment at Plaza El Segundo continues to perform exceptionally well is expected to stabilize in the fourth quarter of this year.
Our acquisition of our joint venture partner's 70% interest in the six core assets that Don discussed is expected to be neutral to FFO this year after transaction cost and factoring in the sale of Courtyard Shops which we completed in the fourth quarter.
We do expect this acquisition to contribute approximately $0.02 to $0.03 in 2017.
And finally we are well underway on the second phases at the Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly to represent another $600 million of investments and expect those spaces to begin delivering in the latter part of 2017 and 2018.
From a capital standpoint we expect to fund approximately $350 million of development and redevelopment with the mix of funds from operations long-term debt and equity under our ATM.
Finally consistent with our process our guidance does not factor in any further acquisitions or dispositions that we may execute during the year.
Before turning the call over to questions I would like to introduce Leah Andress our new Investor Relations Associate.
Leah was formerly with Phillips Realty in DC and prior to that was an analyst with FBR Capital Markets.
Unfortunately she was also a target.
I look forward to having all of you to meet Leah very soon.
We also look forward to seeing many of you at the Wells and Citi conference in the next few weeks.
With that operator I would like to now turn the call over to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning and Leah don't be afraid to give Jim some grief back there.
So a few questions here.
First on the West Coast perhaps for Jeff can you just give us an update of what you are seeing as you are talking to Splunk for their space as well as I think you guys are contemplating building some office across the street and just given the headlines curious if that is still the plan or may be there has been some change? Yes Alex no change to long-term development plans for Santana Row or Santana West.
Obviously before we make a capital decision; we're going to make sure we're confident that there is going to be a market there when it's time to lease buildings so no change.
As it relates to Splunk we don't have any special information about what's going on at Splunk or any of the other tech companies for that matter.
But what we do see on the ground if you will is them being very aggressive about doing what they need to do to get into the building as soon as possible.
They need the space; they need it as quickly as possible so everything that has gone over the last couple of weeks hasn't affected that at all.
Okay.
And then as far as the Clarion JV Don I think over the years you have been asked numerous times about buying that in and it always seemed like it was more of a steady Eddie portfolio rather than something that would be more interesting to wholly own.
So can you just provide some perspective? Was this a case where a JV partner wanted to get out or perhaps given some of the recent retailer things that have come up maybe there is some new opportunities that made it a little more exciting for you guys to buy in now? Yes Alex that's a very fair question the single biggest thing or first you need both parties to want to do a deal.
And from our perspective one of the biggest things that change was it's all about prioritization.
And so as you know what we did do last year was setting up the core and the way that we set up the core we are kind of freeing up that achievement building on that team to be able to create value in it while taking Don and freeing up Chris and Briggs over on the mixed-use side there is more capacity.
So from our perspective I'm feeling great about being able to actually get to something we would like to get there.
Secondly a lot of it is just timing too we've already at Plaza Del Mercado for example been able to do a deal that was in the works last year and has been in the works the last couple of years.
With respect to LA Fitness to redevelop that site that's great news.
So it's really about management of pension afforded by the new reconfiguration of our companies.
In addition Alex too the timing for Clarion we are ready to develop that partnership for their own reasons and us ready to take it out.
Okay.
So how much more -- what should we look for as far as upside potential as far as the yield where you bought and where you think it could go over the next -- from a modeling perspective? Yes see I'm not going to give you a particular answer on that I can tell you that we are working real hard to that particularly Mooallem and that team is looking particularly hard as that portfolio.
And if Mooallem and Wendy Seher who I don't know if you know she is a critical part of our company Senior Vice President of Leasing just on the core which is so important when we're saying just on the core it also ties into what we're doing with respect to aggressively going after space.
Having that ability to focus and move on that core the timing is just right.
So we will give you more and not sure whether Mooallem we're going to bring him down to city or not but if we do or if we don't there will be more exposure for you and folks like you to him to be able to get some of that specifics those specifics as we get closer.
Okay.
I will have to look for Christy to fill me in on what you guys say down at the Citi conference.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you.
I am just wondering are your better redevelopment expansion opportunities going to be internal with a company like Pike &amp; Rose or may they be external like your shops at Sunset Place and CocoWalk? You know Craig I think that again as we laid out at our Investor Day by far the large preponderance of our investment opportunity exists in what we earn and control today and we went through that some detail.
And we augment that tactically with perhaps an acquisition or two; I think this past year we found three strong ones in San Antonio Center Sunset Place and CocoWalk which really kind of build our pipeline.
But preponderance of what we're focused on and executing on and what you see in the 8-K as we not only detail the projects that are underway but then begin providing for you on that second page what the future pipeline is is in real estate that we own.
Yes Craig and just the only thing I would add to that is the type of acquisition we make I think it's a differentiator for us.
I don't think we look at deals.
It's not just about buying stable shopping centers; in fact it's not about buying stable shopping centers.
It's truly is about looking at it with a more broad real estate point of view to be able to take advantage of skills that we've grown in and developed over the past decade or so in not only in Massachusetts and redevelopment and apply them to the -- to the land by which we look at those acquisitions.
I mean there aren't a lot of companies that are going to go take a shot on Sunset place.
But when we look at it -- and we may succeed or we may fail we'll see.
But we handicap it in such a way we're looking at it in such a way that it provides opportunity that is consistent with the skill sets that we've learned all the way up from Bethedsa Row till today.
So that's the balance Jim was talking about.
Yes I guess from my perspective it's like do I rather see you take on projects that have greater upside and that would be outside your portfolio I think generally or the safer bet taking what you have really strong properties and making them better but I guess -- Yes.
I don't know how to tell you tell you which way it will be.
I can tell you it will be a balance of both.
And how that moves depends on where the opportunity is.
One thing we do -- and I think it's important is we truly -- if you were in our investment committee meetings for each of those type of opportunities it's still capital.
And as it's toward a capital where we risk adjust those returns and what we think we're going to do is the critical part of that balance.
You're going to see both as we go forward.
I just can't tell you whether it's 60/40 70/30 50/50 because that depends on the specific opportunity that comes up.
Great.
And then just quickly it sounds like you have more appetite for some repurposing of anchor space.
Is there a point though where the economy gets too rough that you may be not want to take those gambles from a timing perspective? Of course Craig.
It's funny.
I was thinking about one of these 10 shopping centers that -- that we are getting to.
I mean these 10 shopping centers that Jim talked about in the core these are shopping centers that we haven't talked much about.
We've got 90 shopping centers.
And the idea of unencumbering through restrictive anchor leases things like Willow Lawn Brick Troy Montrose Crossroads in Chicago is -- show to that we -- as we say we have that appetite.
I can tell you at Crossroads in Chicago for example there is party city.
The party city if this were 2008 we would have done everything we can to keep them there.
We would have lowered the rent we would have done whatever we needed to do to keep the occupancy and to keep the income coming in the drawer.
In 2016 we view that differently.
We are certainly willing to play hardball on the lease terms effectively and say yes you got to go you got to go because we're much more confident with respect to where it is that that we can release and what it is that we can do in terms of unencumbering the shopping center.
Is there a point that that changes? Of course.
To the extent the economy it turns around and goes the other way it's -- and we're going to feel a whole lot different about that just like we did back then.
But it's not going to be an overnight type of decision.
You'll have plenty of time and quarters for us to talk through what it is that we're doing with respect to these centers and what it is that we're -- be monitoring with respect to future centers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
May be if I can just build on that a little bit just because there is increased concern in the U.S.
about a recession today or one approaching if we are not in it already.
I know Jim is inclined to probably make guidance that much more conservative than usual.
But what specifically has Don do you think you have changed in your approach to managing the business to address risks that might not be on the radar screen say six to 12 months ago? And may be have you perceived any change in the willingness of retailers to commit to space or even just certain aspects of lease terms? Yes Jeff it's a good conservation.
Let's start this out by Weilminster is on the phone I think.
I'd love for him to give you a prospective of the leasing world today.
And then I'm going to build on that with respect to your question okay.
Sure.
So Jeff good morning.
So my feedback on the leasing world today is that we're very -- we're cautiously optimistic with regards to the opportunities and that very much aligns with what we at Federal Realty have.
And this is what we best-in-class assets which we see located on markets that really align with the retailers desired core customer profile which is incredibly important to them.
They know that it's our Realty's commitment to deliver best-in-class property level operation execution and maintenance and are focused on delivering really on the best tenant mix available aligns with their ability to be successful.
That puts us then in the best opportunity to take advantage of the growth that retailers are pursuing.
And there clearly is growth demand from the retailers.
They're just -- their outlook is just a lot more.
They are a lot more focused on finding cites that do align with core customer.
The deals that they are doing are taking much longer.
The lease negotiations are certainly more difficult and they are a lot more selective.
So we definitely see opportunity with regard to growth in retailers and we think that they are looking in the markets where we have our real estate.
So I think from our perspective we are setup to take advantage of what demand exits out there both on the box side as well as on the smaller shop side.
And as Don pointed out I mean it's very important for us as we unlever some of the restrictions and these opportunities take advantage of putting a new relevant box retailers that also that rising tide will allow us to really take advantage of the demand from the smaller shop tenants and selectively that will make our assets much better.
Yes.
And let me add to that Jeff.
So I mean your question is a great one.
And to the extent this was -- turning it to 2008 you'd have a whole different perspective here in terms of what we think and what we're doing in the approach.
There is not one side that we see with our discussions with our retailers at our properties in our locations of anything like that.
At worse it's a take a deep -- it's just more of a deep breath.
And as Chris said it's more deliberate.
It's a tougher negotiation all that that's fine.
The reality is if you were to see or to know -- if I took you for a ride over to Grand Park Plaza which is inside the Beltway in Fairfax we have not been able to do anything with that property for a long time because of the leases in place.
This is a particular point in time where we have a shot.
If we simply released it to -- you kept the same anchor in and extended those existing leases we would be losing the shot to create significant value for a decade or more.
So we -- when you overall take a look at it -- and this is with the decision with everything we've done we are still 93% occupied.
This is hardly oh my God empty out the whole place right but it does.
Take -- it take up very measured and careful approach towards 10 shopping centers in particular that that we wouldn't -- we've been trying forever to figure out a way because demand is there to create value but they've been encumbered by other demand fee lease or an old valley lease or whatever it is that a particular shopping center that was calling it to get it back.
That seems like a smart approach to me.
It's not all the way over on one side or all the way over on the other.
Again it's balanced.
Just may be thank you for that.
May be to switch gears just on the Clarion joint venture one or two questions.
All else equal I would have expected that purchase considering the cash funding to be slightly accretive to earnings but if there is no further dispositions in guidance I guess what is restraining that possibility? Jeff as I mentioned in the call we didn't have factor previously in the guidance sale of Courtyard Shops in Wellington Florida.
So when you factor in that asset sale plus transaction cost generally neutral for 2016 and we do expect it to be $0.02 to $0.03 accretive in 2017.
Sorry I missed the second part of that.
I'm just curious related to that portfolio occupancy in that JV has been a little bit lower than the rest of the Federal portfolio.
Can you just remind us I guess how you guys think about the quality of those assets in comparison to your core and is there a future redevelopment potential there that may be isn't in your schedules today or do you see these assets as eventual sale candidates down the road? Yes.
The demographics are dam good compared to the rest of the portfolio.
And I wish I had a better answer for you as to that.
What can I show you today that way I will say oh my God why not the other 70% in that portfolio is a clear home run? I don't have that for you today.
What I do have -- and again a lot of it -- from management perspective in a company like this it's to say all right I know have a very focused team on it.
The initial conversations that we've been having with retailers and with custodies and jurisdictions that they're in suggest that there is some good stuff to do at a couple or three of these shopping centers and Plaza Del Mercado was the first one that I've said I mentioned to you.
I expect there will be others.
Jim Mooallem and his team a little bit of time to run through this and in the next couple of quarters we'll have a far better roadmap for you if you will as to how it relates to the rest of the products that we have.
Okay thanks and one last question.
Curious why do Federal's renewal TIs run so much higher than peers? I guess I wouldn't the majority of your tenants -- it is a costless proposition to renew there is a little incentive or disincentive for them to leave the property and yet your renewal TIs tend to be $8 to $9 a square foot versus sometimes less than $1 for a lot of your peers.
I'm just curious what you think drives that? I'm not sure I have an answer I'm not sure.
The one thing I would pass it here is these shopping centers are better shopping centers in areas that that were effectively the economics of the deal on a net basis make a whole lot of sense.
And I suspect in return for some of that higher rent there is an expectation for certain small shops tenants to want more done to the space can we get a redone bathroom can we effectively refresh et cetera at the space? I suspect that but I don't know for sure.
Chris do you have anything to add to that.
Yes I only would add I think it just vary I think this period as Don mentioned I mean we did a transaction up in Melville where do we have an in-place tenant where there is going to be a downsizing of GLA in one area of the store to bring another one of their brands in.
So that is the Dick's deal that was mentioned.
And so a lot of it has to do with our making sure of maximizing the opportunity within the space whether that's an expansion a shrinking and/or really is an improvement to some of the infrastructure that we see going beyond just a tenant.
And so we're very proactive in analyzing every single step available to make sure that we're getting the best out of each space.
You think about the amount of our portfolio of 100 plus assets we got to squeeze every bit out of juice out of each one of them and so we do analyze them and that is how I think you will see the variation that I think we get into defining why on each deal we made those decisions Don mentioned in our investment committee and we do analyze them thoroughly.
I hope that helps Don.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citi.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys and thanks for all the free advertising for our conference.
Sure Christy keep Alex informed okay.
Absolutely first priority.
Jim just following up on some of your comments on delivery and stabilization of the active redevelopment projects I think you mentioned $3 million of NOI in Q4 from Pike &amp; Rose and Assembly.
As I think about the rest of the pipeline the $290 million of cost at 9% that's $26 million of incremental NOI from those projects.
How much of that flows through Q4 NOI and maybe you can break out the point specifically? I'm going to need to get you that number specifically in your follow-up Christy; I dont have that with me right now.
Okay right.
And just secondly in regards to I think you mentioned $6 million of downtime impact from box recapture.
Just wondering as you think about the occupancy trajectory in 2016 and the re-tenanting of some of those anchor boxes and it sounds like you could potentially have more that you could do on that front where would you expect physical occupancy to end the year? What's sort of embedded in your guidance? I think you're going to see occupancy dip a little bit in the first part of the year and then begin to recover towards the end of the year.
I'm not going to give specific percentages because that's a difficult thing to predict based on how particular space can move it at particular period.
In Sports Authority too we're going to have to figure out what happened there.
Yes.
Would you have any sense at this point for how many of those five Sports Authority locations you would divest? I don't at this point.
You know we've got five Christy and an average rent of 17 box or something like 17 box and anywhere between 11 and 25 I suspect we would love to get back to the ones at 11 and probably won't and once at 25 we will want to get back and we will have to figure out what else we have there.
I tell you when I look at it; I take anyone of them back anyone of them even ones to 25 because where they are and what we could do with them.
And Christy those are Assembly Brick Montrose Crossing Crow Canyon and East Bay Bride.
So that are some of our very best centers.
Okay.
And then just sorry if you mentioned this already on the Assembly phase two condos the increase in the number and the cost there anything that we should read into that in terms of demand at that site for multifamily housing the increases go for the project? Certainly some of that but much more this is a much more efficient building.
The outside of the building that we were building is no different and accordingly being able to refine and tweak mix and efficiency of the building is what that's all about it is some variance in terms of economics and we would not have done that blue if we not feel the market would absorb that and able to handle 17 more condos.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just a quick question along the lines of with some executive positions floating around out there that are open how do you look at your talent on the bench in terms of keeping those bodies and may be succession planning if you do happen to get somebody stolen away? Frankly I couldn't feel better; I mean there is we've spent a whole lot of time over the last two years working exactly what you're talking about Jason putting comp arrangements into place to make sure that we're doing the best we can to retain.
The key with Federal as always been from our perspective you can get the best and the brightest if you give them the autonomy and you give them the lease so they are able to run their businesses that's effectively what it is that's how we are set up.
You can have a couple of cocktails with anyone of them to get their point of view that way but I feel real good about not only choices that will have for succession down the road but also the ability to execute this business plan that we've simply articulate about.
Okay.
And then last question for me.
If you could maybe just contrast tenant health from three or four years ago versus today.
It is obviously a Darwinian business and you are always replacing weak tenants with stronger tenants.
But just overall kind of state of the retailer space do you feel better today than you did three or four years ago relative to your tenant? Or is it there a little softness that is developing with some of these bankruptcies? Yes Jason I do have a very specific point of view with respect to this.
I mean three or four years ago not just coming out of the recession you're nervous.
You're nervous with respect to what those tenants business plans are going to be how they are going to work in the new world did the cuts that they made in their staffing got their organizations with respect to be able to do all that.
And what has happened and it's predictable if you kind of take a look at it is if you could be in every Board room of all those major retailers and smaller retailers along the way you would some of them with respect to what they changed and where they're moving into a new economy became extremely good at it and got stronger a lot of them kind of found mediocre and success in certain areas and not in other areas but with an improving economy they held on they held on they held on they held on.
There is only so long you can hold on if your business plan is not affecting revenue.
And I do think that what we see and we felt that in '15 not normal for what we're talking about for '16 was that those tenants that simply did not have business plans that resonated with consumers going forward we're not going to be able to hold on interest.
We started to see that in the second half of '15 we decided then to specifically aggressively target them it's -- we don't turn that on and off and this is a continuation of that into '16.
But the better tenants there are better tenants and those better tenants are doing very well.
There is more of a bifurcation is what I'm saying between good and not so good today than there was three or four years ago.
That's the distinction and that's why I guess I'm talking my own book here but its what I believe that's why the bifurcation between the desirable real estate and not desirable real estate is wider than it certainly was three or four years ago.
Those things work in tandem and that's why we are probably bit more optimistic with respect to our leasing of this strategy in '16 and '17 and some others are.
So with your long lived leases do you feel like there is a number of years of kind of pain to come from a retailer standpoint or are you working through the lion's share of that in the last couple of years? Jason I do believe that but I believe that for only the better portfolio.
I dont believe that across the board three years ago four years ago across the board didn't matter.
Today it matters.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Metz with UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Maybe a question for Chris Weilminster here but you mentioned the broad strength you've seen on the leasing front both from main present in line and you talked at length earlier about being still optimistic about the retail environment.
So I'm just wondering if you could give us some more specifics or color on where demand is coming from on both the shop and the box side.
Sure.
I will say that the soft goods retailers Nordstrom Rack has made announcement about their growth plans so there is a lot of demand out from boxes in that category Rack TJX you talk about what's going on HTC and growth expectations I think for Saks be it Saks OFF 5TH brand I think they are rolling out or talking about some brands as it relates to Lord and Taylor.
I think that clearly is a box component that is looking for opportunity.
We see the grocery category looking to get more nimble and do more urban oriented stores so smaller.
I think there is a new concept out by Ahoid called BeFresh which is taking some of what they have learned over the European market about providing more deliverables on home meal replacement more convenient environment.
That clearly provides opportunity and in the QSR business as we've been talking about for long-term on smaller shop really continues to just amazed at how they are kind of cutting out the mid-tier casual dining category and providing as quite you know high quality products more curated by the consumer in a faster environment.
That's just a low hanging fruit but that energy certainly are and those types of retailers are the ones that we clearly see taking advantage of it as we release opportunities within our portfolio.
You know Jeremy the other thing you got to keep your eye on which I think is a real positive for the open air space is there is -- there are certainly more womens apparel tenants that are considering open air versus or developing new concepts for open air versus just malls I mean we did a couple of Lemon pop deals over the past few quarters one in Melville Mall that I just love how it's performing one in Ellisburg that we did.
And so those retailers open mindedness to where with respect to their business plans they can create value I think is a real positive to the type of products that we have.
Good.
Appreciate that color.
And then Don in terms of these Sports Authority I know it is a little early here and hard to put a probability on but assuming you could get those back do any of those have the potential to lead to some bigger redevelopments here given that they are in some of your better centers? Yes.
It is funny; I mean Brick isn't doing right.
We are working hard at Brick Plaza to redeploying that shopping center and one of the Sports Authority is the Brick Plaza is opened it's a box big box that opens up another set of opportunities.
You know what weve been doing with respect to remerchandising East Bay Bridge we would love to get that back to be able to remerchandise it.
And then more Assembly Square Assembly Square and you know that power center is now adjacent to a pretty dam successful mixed-use project.
So even though it pays a lot of rent wouldn't mind that either.
So there is when I look down through them they can turn into some real causes from a value perspective but again short-term hits.
Okay.
And then just one last quick one for Jim here.
I was just wondering if you can talk about the free rent you are giving at the office space at Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose and what those tenants take in occupancy here over the next few quarters.
Should we really be thinking about stabilized yield for those the office components of those projects not hitting until kind of a mid-or late 2017? It's going to be coming in in mid-'17 that's correct Jeremy.
When you factor in those periods and timing as we get those tenants moved in again all the spaces committed.
Now it's just a question of getting the tenants in the space.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
So if I think about what you guys have said during this call it seems like no real slow down and not slowing down on taking space back and releasing it.
But how about for bigger items like A I'm not sure if there's a Phase 3 for some of your larger projects? But given what's going on the road does it at all impact your decisions to embark on to larger more heavy capital projects? We are not at a point where we're at a go or no-go with respect to the third phase of Pike &amp; Rose the third phase of Assembly I can't tell you there are a lot of things we're working on some of which are on call.
But when we are at that point the investment committee decision the capital allocation decision will certainly -- decisions will certainly take into account where we are at that time in economy what we believe in terms of future and what we're comfortable of doing and how much risk we would like to take to our offload which we can do.
So as of today I'd have -- you should assume nothing different with respect to third phases or fourth phases of those products or anything else we're looking at.
As the year plays out as '17 plays out and we're getting through investment committee stage you can bet that we'll have more to say about it.
Okay.
And just quick one on CocoWalk.
You look at that project we talked -- I think we talked about it before.
It just seems like a bigger scope potentially with kind of empty small shops around that asset.
Any progress update on what you're trying to do with that asset overall? I'm so going to jump in here before Weilminster starts telling you about all the great ideas he has got.
Here is an awful lot of stuff that we are thinking about and working through.
Ki Bin I don't want to place you off gear but I'm not going to say anything further about either CocoWalk or Sunset until we got something to say on it because I don't want to take you up and then down and then up and then down and that's the process that we go through with respect to a true redevelopment analysis.
There are a number of ways we could go there.
Some of them have a larger scope; some of them are more simplistic.
The overall IRRs and the risk adjusted nature of each of those opportunities is what we're going to consider.
I'm just not ready here in -- on figure of 10 to go further.
Ki Bin I would just comment that if you're spending any time in that market you're seeing some very good things happen there.
So we're pleased with momentum that we see in the market.
But again as Don said not ready to talk about any particular plan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
For Don or Jim on the 10 box opportunities with the 450 000 square feet plus.
Just to clarify.
Are all these likely redevelopments or do you expect that some or most of these would be just redevelopment with normal CapEx? And fairly [indiscernible] -- I love that.
Well I love that question George.
You have to probably let him finish the question before you can answer.
It's the good part.
Just -- I guess the projects that you expect to be at larger redevelopments how significant of a capital investment could it be? Yes.
So if you were working here and we were looking at these 10 assets and spending time within the cities in the communities that they're in doing market studies of what's missing not only on a retail but potentially in mixed use basis in each of these places you know that -- you would know that it takes little bit of time.
And the idea of figuring out what should each of these be is where we start.
We then put on the overall paths of okay how likely is it to get it done where is the balance in our business plans.
If I work getting that and I am I would suggest to you that half of these would be releasing a couple of them would be minor redevelopments and a couple of them would be larger redevelopments.
I can't give you a capital number because I'm just guessing at what I'm saying.
But that's the --what Im trying to do is to give you the process that were going to go through to make sure that this I want to say once in a lifetime but once in a decade opportunity of having unencumbered sections of the real estate gets you very thoroughly and that we dont just lap it an inferior tenant in order to get out the material same-store growth back.
I guess its fair to say that.
Im sorry.
No Im sure that is not enough for you in terms of what you're trying to get but that's about what it will be it will be some mixture between those three possibilities at all 10 centers.
That is helpful but I guess it is fair to say that we shouldnt expect any NOI contribution from these assets for the 10 boxes in 2016 maybe half of it comes in 2017 and the rest is beyond that.
I think that is right and if in the case of redevelopment when you look at redevelopment as certain things that are really clear that pretty quickly that you cant create economic value because of other things in the property.
In those cases I think in almost all of us here we got demand for space.
So you may see a couple of quick releasing opportunities that may even provide some small level in 2016 but by and large you will see it in 2017 forward.
That's helpful and last one from me.
Jim any comments on where I guess can you remind us how much common equity is implied into the guidance range? And I guess just given some of the uncertainty in the world and your funding needs in the current pipeline any thoughts on overnight vis--vis the ATM issuance? Part of the reason we have the balance sheet we do is always maximum flexibility towards never be in a position to have to raise a particular type of capital at a particular point in time.
That's something that we really work hard to protect and preserve.
As we look at overall equity needs for the year probably in the neighborhood of 200 million to 250 million but again we have the flexibility to do it through our ATM potentially an overnight that -- its all about making sure that we have the flexibility and as weve been working really hard that you can see to make sure that as we are working through all this value creation that we have actually been prefunding a great deal of it and you can see that when you look at our debt-to-EBITDA metric which has remained low despite the fact that we have lot of developments to start producing EBITDA yet.
So that gives us lot more flexibility if that stuff comes on and importantly puts us in a position where we can fund the growth that we have underway multiple ways.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon everyone.
Just a few follow-up questions here.
Jim in the equity of $200 million $250 million I think last quarter you are talking about more like $150 million is this increaser there just due to the JV acquisition or is it something else that has changed in your thinking regarding some other sources of funding? That's pretty much it and it's a good question Vin because we could potentially take some of that equity through an asset sales which we dont have plan but as we demonstrated last year were always looking for that as well but the increase is largely a reflection of taking down $150 million investment in our joint venture.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And just going back to the Splunk conversation from earlier can you just remind it do you have to know how much of that space was sort of geared for future growth as opposed to just selling so much spaces they need today? Jeff? Yes.
We are 100% sure Vin.
I mean we enjoy they're talking about of leasing couple of floors but the plans can be evolving on that so Im not 100% sure.
We do know they're pushing to get in to the space and we do know that they are hiring a ton of employees right now.
So we think all that's still been in flux.
Okay.
Got it and then just moving to we talked about Sports Authority quite a bit but just in terms of normal rollover can you remind us what if any Nobles and Staples are rolling over in 2016 and 2017? We dont have that rollover Vin; we will have to follow up with you on that.
We're ready for you on that one Vin.
This is a little disappointing guys.
But that's all right.
Yes.
Wait I can -- let me just opine there.
I can't give you the specific number.
But there are one or two -- there is one more de novo that we're very actively in discussion with them which is coming up in the next 18 months and we're already working with them and talking about downsides of space and looking at other options for the space that will be coming back.
They have no options available.
So its a clear slate for us to attack.
In Staples we are very aggressively looking at our portfolio at Staples; it's a staggered rollover schedule at Staples.
But we're certainly very focused on the office supply category and how you're working on backlog opportunity should we get in these spaces back.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then just on the tenant discussions I mean it sound like the discussions are little longer little bit tougher negotiations.
But the market seems to be -- it seems it's priced in a higher probably recession relatively they're sort of within the start of year here.
And I'm just curious when your conversations really started to get more difficult? Well I would just say that it's difficult following the great recession that we referred to the retailers.
I mean this is not -- I was listening to Chris before and then -- and I couldn't be helpful but struck by the fact that I've been here in the same thing for Chris for the past two years.
And it's that I even wrote down on piece of paper here to talk to him later.
But you're not -- I mean we are not seeing a significant difference from a year ago with respect to that.
And again I kind of think this comes down too where are you trying to get to because expansion plans remain for -- he went through the litany of retailers it's just where? And if that's a smaller list or that's come back a bit what are the chances that we're going to get our fair share or better than our fair share of those opportunities and we think that's pretty good.
But yes.
There is still tough conversation.
Oh then that's helpful.
I mean the fact that you're out leasing a shift from what's been for a while that's I think a key distinction.
So thanks for that.
That's all I have.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Floris Van Dijkum with Boenning.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for all.
I know everyone is probably winding down so quick question.
When you guys look at expanding into a new market or increasing your investment in new market how much of that is opportunistic versus strategic? You just expanded significantly in Miami.
How much of that was opportunity based or how much of that was strategic based? Floris that's a strategic decision clearly a strategic decision.
The one thing that we got comfortable with over the years a little bit is what it is -- where were the places in this country that were logical extensions for us that we felt very very good about the positive changes on a macro level over the next decade or two.
The more we looked at not Florida or Miami in particular within Florida the more we felt that all the investments that's happening downtown all the investments that's happening in that marketplace was not -- was what it is but it wasn't the same as what was happening where the full-time population lives.
The more we looked into those areas which included Coral Gables and included Coconut Grove the more we got really excited about the possibilities of those being underserved places that were on a real up swing.
Frankly six months later or 12 months later from when we did it and two years later from when we started thinking about it we're actually more optimistic in terms of what's happening.
If you look don't look hard at the press and some of the deals that have been done in or around Coconut Grove over the past year 12 or such a 15 months and I think you'll say oh man maybe these guys are on to something.
So that was very much a strategic decision.
And if you guys look at other markets are there any other markets that you are in I'm thinking may be of Chicago? Is there a strategic reason not to be in that or will you at some point potentially look through to grow that market as well? That is on Jim Taylor's to-do-list go-list important list for 2016.
So do me a favor and keep asking that question every three months.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Lucas with Capital One.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Don just may be to summarize the conversation about where the tenant conversations are is it more about their feeling the pain of rents higher than it is about their caution about store openings? Is that kind of where we are with this? I think its a combination.
I think its a combination Chris.
When youre sitting in your -- I always try to take it to the board rooms of any company and in those board rooms or conversations about earnings growth and longer-term plans and it's like anything else.
You don't just turn things on and off unless you have crazy times like 2008 and again there is no sign that we see anything like that.
So instead you start tweaking all your pieces number of store openings your cost structure your product lines and store size all of that stuff.
So on a combined basis there is not one thing that to level when we say retailers applying there is one thing out there there are very many different business plans and all we try to do as a company and as a business is to be attractive towards many of them as possible and not be tied to any one retailer any one category within those retailers or any one geography.
So when you look at from that perspective and you truly get back to demand versus supply on your particular real estate thats why we are probably more optimistic than hearing a lot elsewhere.
Okay.
And then my last question.
If we circle back to sort of the very beginning of the Q&amp;A and talk about the acquisition of the Clarion interest when I think historically about how you guys have talked about the portfolio I think Don you have always talked about how proud you are of the fact that it is a few assets very highly valuable large assets.
When I look at the six assets that are in this portfolio for the most part they tend to be at the smaller end and several of them don't really fit what I would consider Federal markets or micro markets.
So when I think about the answer to the question you talked about having more bandwidth.
So the question that I would ask you is -- is that because of the reorganization should we expect smaller core assets to necessarily be a bigger piece of this portfolio going forward because you have more bandwidth or how should we be thinking about this transaction? Very clear question Chris the answer is no we should not be thinking that.
And that this is a discrete investment decision and when you sit and specifically think about this discrete investment decision know that we have a 11 years of actual experience in knowing how these particular assets act and not act.
And all six of them aren't great.
No question about it from the standpoint of are they does one size fit all for you not at all.
But as a portfolio with an opportunity to either sell the 30% that is that we did own or buy the 70% that we did not own in this discrete transaction we think we can make some money in that and add some value here.
Don't take that and expand that to the company's overall business plan the way you just described because that wouldn't be the case.
Thank you.
And that does concludes today's Q&amp;A portion of the call.
I would like to turn the call back over to Leah Andress for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and we look forward to seeing you all at the Wells and Citi conferences in the coming weeks.
Thanks guys.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Welcome to the Federal Realty's fourth quarter yearend 2013 earnings conference call.
My name is Freida and I'll be your operator for today's call.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Kristina Lennox.
Kristina you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for participating on Federal Realty's fourth quarter and yearend 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call are Don Wood Dawn Becker Jim Taylor Jeff Berkes Chris Weilminster and Melissa Solis.
These and other members of our management team are available to take your questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
In addition to our fourth quarter and yearend 2013 supplemental disclosure package we also filed our 10-K yesterday both documents provide you with a significant amount of valuable information with respect to the Trust's 2013 operating and financial performance and both are currently available on our website.
Certain matters discussed on this call may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include any annualized or projected information as well as statements referring to expected or anticipated events or results.
Although Federal Realty believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions Federal Realty's future operations and its actual performance may differ materially from the information contained in our forward-looking statements and we can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained.
Risks inherent in these assumptions include but are not limited to future economic conditions including interest rates real estate conditions and the risks and cost of construction.
The earnings release and supplemental reporting package that we issued yesterday our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K and our other financial disclosure documents provide a more in-depth discussion of risk factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operation.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Don to begin our discussion.
Thanks Kristina and good morning everybody.
This was a very good quarter and this was a very good year and it sets us up beautifully to really create a lot of real estate value along with earnings over the next few years.
At a time when many real estate companies are struggling to find ways to grow our table is set.
It's set right now with the best-in-class core business that grows at 3%-plus even on an occupancy neutral basis.
With hundreds and millions of dollars in new products set for delivery in 2014 the new iconic acquisitions in New Jersey with below market rents with nearly $800 million of new debt and equity raised and capital raised in 2013 and among a lowest cost in any REIT which will maintain and in fact improve on balance sheet flexibility during this heavy development period.
The markets we operate in remains very active with leasing activity particularly strong in Northern California and Boston.
2013's completed deals which overall were written at 20% higher rents than the prior tenant 25% in the fourth quarter will serve as a great start to 2014 growth and buffer some of the inevitable dilution that comes from delivering development projects.
So before we go on and talk more about 2014 let's pause a minute and layoff some of the key 2013 fourth quarter and full year numbers.
First of all please note that twice during 2013 we retired debt early to take advantage of the unprecedented low rates available on unsecured public bonds as a result we incurred prepayment charges of $0.05 a share in the second quarter $0.15 a share in the fourth quarter.
I'm excluding those charges from the remainder of my remarks for clear and more relevant comparability.
Accordingly we generated FFO per share in the fourth quarter of $1.18 compared with a $1.11 in last year's quarter.
That 6.3% growth despite the fact that the $1.18 includes nearly $1 million for legal due diligence and other necessary transaction cost incurred at the end of the year for the acquisition of the Grove at Shrewsbury and Brook 35 in Sea Girt New Jersey.
We closed those deals on January 1 2014.
That fourth quarter $1.18 when added to the first nine months resulted in record FFO per share 2013 of $4.61 7% better than the prior year's $4.31 And as I thought about that result I really want to put that total year number in perspective.
To those of you who covered us for a while will remember that 2012 was a year in which we had negotiated in an especially large amount of lease termination fees including $6 million related to Genuardi's at Ellisburg.
In total lease termination fees were nearly $9 million more in 2012 than they were in 2013 and yet we still grew at 7% despite the tough comps.
I mentioned that's not how you include or exclude term fees in your analysis as you know I feel very strongly that they are regular and important part of our business.
I'll merely indicate just how strong 2013 operating result really were and maybe provide a window into our 2014 growth let me explain.
Last quarter we provided initial 2014 guidance in the range of $4.84 to $4.92 or 6% growth at the midpoint.
And we'll standby in fact increase that guidance today.
Jim will talk about guidance in a few minutes you'll get there.
Expected growth like that despite the unavoidable and significant dilutive impact of bringing large scale development project online at Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose is in our view remarkable.
Between demolition costs and the result in loss rent the burden of heavy initial marketing expenses inevitable residential rent concessions and lease up timings and staggered retail rent stores and partial rent 2014 quarterly results will certainly be lumpy and negatively impacted by $8 million to $10 million.
Yet we still expect to grow at 5% to 7% low-point high-point of the range by the end of the year because of the continued strong performance of the core.
It goes really well for future years as these mixed-use destinations mature and are critical and organic parts of the community that they serve and the value created becomes more apparent.
They'll grow better than more generic projects and future phases will solidify them even more.
All right back to the quarter for a minute and it starts with really productive leasing.
82 comparable deals for nearly 400 000 square feet of space at an average first year new rent of $27.24 25% more than the rent in the last year to previous lease.
Now what struck me about those results this quarter was just how broad-based the positive deals were the rollover percentage wasn't due to a few good deals.
The fixed anchor deals done during the quarter produced 43% more rents.
The 76 small shop deals were up 19%.
When it compared new tenants versus renewals just 27 new deals produced 34% more rent and 55 renewals produced 22% more rent.
We were strong throughout.
In addition we also signed 17 non-comparable deals 14 of which were for newly constructed space at Assembly Row.
Those signed deals during the fourth quarter in alphabetical order at assembly were Adidas Ann Taylor Loft or just Loft Clarks Converse Ernesto's Pizza Fuji Restaurant Kay Jewelers Luggage Factory Paul's Bakery Pendleton Reebok Saks Fifth Steve Madden and Wilson's Leather as they joined lots of other deals signed previously including Nike including AMC including LEGOLAND and a great restaurant lineup.
All-in-all this was a crazy productive leasing period as well as the entire year of 2013 most of which will benefit '14 and '15.
The portfolio of occupancy remains very healthy either on a lease basis or on a physical occupancy basis.
Overall we were 95.8% leased and 95.1% physically occupied which compares favorably to 95.3% leased and 94.9% physically occupied a year ago.
And importantly same center operating income grew 4.3% excluding redevelopment during the quarter and 4.5% for the year very strong numbers with only small occupancy improvements.
Obviously the stage of developments that we're in the right now dilutes those numbers a bit when you include the redevelopment impact but even then only the 3.6% for the quarter and 4.4% for the year.
From an operating perspective 2013 was banner year for Federal and we remain bullish for that to continue in 2014.
I hope that most of you saw our announcement last month on the acquisition of a majority share of two iconic retail centers in Central New Jersey called the Grove and Brook 35 in Shrewsbury and Sea Girt respectively.
Jim will talk more about some of this in his remarks and we've had these centers on our hit list for a lot of years because of their superior positioning within their markets.
And the opportunity for market rent upside today and long into the future.
The very talented team that comes with the acquisition is an added benefit that helps solidify our focus on increasing our presence in the Metropolitan New York markets.
This was really a nice win to start out 2014.
And in this environment of an improving economy low interest rates a high performing core portfolio and new income producing acquisitions we remain on schedule and on budget to deliver the first phases of our most ambitious projects at Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose later this year.
Both will grand open if you will in the September/October timeframe.
So with Assembly both the AMC Theatre and LEGOLAND will open up earlier in fact in May along with other select retailers through a soft opening process that will continue through the summer.
At Pike &amp; Rose the street retails and one of the two residential buildings will open in October with the second residential building 300 unit 20-storey high-rise is set to open in mid-2015.
At this point the total retail space at both Assembly Row and Pike &amp; Rose is 87% leased or under fully negotiated LOIs and we're well underway in our pricing and preliminary leasing research for the next phase of both.
By the next quarterly call we should be able to provide initial indications of residential demand at Pike &amp; Rose as we expect to open our leasing office at that site next month.
Lastly at Assembly you've probably heard by now that Partners Healthcare a pre-eminent healthcare provider in New England has chosen Assembly Row as the place to consolidate all of their administrative functions in approximately 700 000 square feet of office and bring in excess of 4 700 employees to Somerville at the completion of construction in 2017.
The deal with Partners contemplate the ground lease structure with an option of buys a few years out.
And they'll construct their own office.
They'll do the construction of their office on the old IKEA parcel.
Federal will own the service-oriented retail enforcement of projects.
We could be happier with Partners' decision to come to Assembly Row.
It's a game changer for the entire area.
We're in the process of negotiating documents with Partners and expect to have this complex deal finalized over the next few months.
Heading west residential lease-up at Misora a $75 million project at Santana Row has started out strong with 68 of the first 78 units those are the ones the first building and 36 of the 134 units in the later phase building leased at rates in excess of our pro forma.
So we have people living in the first phase at this point and are nearly 50% leased overall with construction scheduled to be wrapped up over the next six months and the first half of the lease-up process is looking very strong.
Let's go down south in California south of L.A.
where construction on The Point the $80 million lifestyle project adjacent to Plaza El Segundo is underway.
It's on schedule and it's on budget at this early stage.
We are signing leases with both restaurants and retailer demand and both are very strong.
More on this great project on future calls.
The Point is expected to open in mid-2015.
So that's about it for my prepared remarks.
I think you can see that we have an awful lot going on.
The core is firing on all cylinders and despite some inevitable bumpiness this year and next we're very confident that we're building mixed-used destinations that will undoubtedly create a long-term value for the Trust.
It's an exciting time at Federal Realty and I look forward to taking your questions following some more financial detail from Jim Taylor.
Jim? Thanks Don and good morning everyone.
As Don reviewed 2013's performance really underscores the five key talents of our business plan that we outlined at our Investor Day at Assembly Row.
One the strong continued performance in the core portfolio.
Two additional identified redevelopments that further enhance that core in fact we identified this year over $100 million of additional projects.
Three opportunistic acquisitions of high-quality assets such as the Grove at Shrewsbury and Brook 35.
Four and importantly significant progress on the $500 million strategic mixed-used pipeline that we have with over two-thirds of that delivering this year.
These are projects that set us up very well for years to come.
And five importantly a strong balance sheet that provides us maximum flexibility to fund this growth.
As Don mentioned the $1.18 for the quarter and the $4.61 of FFO for the Trust do represent record results.
This builds on a multi-year track record of successive bottomline growth in a sector where no other shopping center company has recovered the prior peak.
What makes this relevant performance even more remarkable is that we've achieved this bottomline growth this year while investing significantly in our future growth.
We are not holding back our growth through asset recycling or balance sheet fixes we're delivering it now.
As Don discussed the primary driver of our performance this year has always been our core portfolio.
This portfolio continues to produce growth principally through contractual rent bumps and strong rollover versus merely occupancy gains.
As I will discuss further on our outlook we expect to push rollover in 2014 to take advantage of the strong tenant demand that we see for our centers.
Overall our rental revenue increased to $620 million and our POI reached $447 million both record results for the Trust.
Our POI margin remained stable at 70% for the year despite significantly lower termination fees than what we realized in 2012 as Don discussed.
Further and importantly during the year we retained strict discipline on G&amp;A and substantially reduced overall interest expense through our refinancing.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We raised $68 million of equity under our ATM during the quarter at a weighted average price of $104.77 significantly above our volume price during the quarter.
Following our upgrade to A3 by Moody's in December we completed our offering of the 3.95% notes utilizing the proceeds to prepay our 7.50% mortgages and our 5.90% notes as we discussed during our last call.
We incurred a prepayment charge in connection with that transaction of $9.9 million.
For the year we raised $575 million of 10-year debt at a weighted average coupon of 3.38%.
That brought our weighted average interest rate down by 70 basis points to 4.76%.
Again we did this while extending our average maturity not going short.
Also we have an opportunity to continue to reduce our rate even in a rising rate environment over the next 24 months as average rate of our maturing debt is 6.9%.
We ended the year with a cash balance of $89 million nothing drawn on our $600 million line of credit and maximum flexibility to fund our development activity.
Importantly our credit metrics remain strong with fixed charge coverage of 3.5 debt-to-EBITDA of 5.3x which again provide us the flexibility to opportunistically access the capital markets.
Turning to acquisitions as Don mentioned we closed this month our two iconic assets.
The Grove at Shrewsbury and Brook 35 that have been on our target list for many years for a total value of $161 million.
We acquired an effective 84% economic interest in these assets for a mix of OP units the assumption of debt and about $13 million of cash.
Importantly this transaction was completed on an off-market basis.
That exclusive negotiation demonstrated truly the value of these private owners placed on our currency which allowed us to avoid a bid process that would likely haven driven the pricing on an all-cash deal well through the upper upgrades that we achieved.
As to the assets themselves in addition to the leasing synergies that Chris Weilminster and team will realize from the tenant demand to go into high quality asset such as these we see two other key benefits.
First we believe we'll be able to drive meaningful growth in rents of these properties over time as the existing rents are below market and we also believe we can enhance the merchandising.
Our recently signed LOIs underscore the upside in the rent that we believe exists.
Second as Don alluded to our partnership with Chris Cole of Metrovation who retains a 7% interest in these assets not only enhances our regional operations but will bring additional investment opportunities in the Greater New York Metro regions.
Net of the transferred taxes we reported in 2014 we expect that Metrovation will add about $0.02 of FFO this year and about $0.03 going forward.
From a pipeline perspective with respect to acquisitions we remain very busy.
A number of the situations that we're looking at are off-market and involve structure.
With that said pricing of course remains very robust.
Turning to our outlook.
We've increased our guidance range to $4.86 to $4.93 an increase of $1.05 at the midpoint which is primarily the impact of the Metrovation acquisition offset in part by a increase in the turnover that we project during the year.
We expect our occupancy to dip slightly during 2014 as we roll larger anchor spaces such as OfficeMax and Pacific Sales at East Bay Bridge the 11 spaces at Friendship and Crow Canyon Kohl's at Melville Staples at Quince Orchard Valleys at Governor and others.
In this leasing environment we are excited to have the opportunity to get after these spaces and drive better long-term deals for the Trust.
However the rollover will cause some drag during the year.
On the same-store basis we expect our growth per year to be in the 4% area including redevelopment.
We expect that NOI growth will start lower during the year and accelerate as tenants occupy space.
In addition to this rollover we do expect some drag early in the year due to snow.
Finally we expect our G&amp;A to remain stable at $30 million to $31 million.
The FFO growth of 6% implied by guidance is remarkable when you consider the $0.13 to $0.15 of bottomline drag that we will incur in 2014 to properly deliver our mixed-used development.
As we discussed last quarter that drag is attributable to $0.04 to $0.05 of upfront marketing cost as we grand open Assembly and Pike &amp; Rose and build upon existing shopping practices and consumer awareness.
$0.05 to $0.06 of drag related to the multi-family lease up of Misora at Santana Row and Building 12 at Pike &amp; Rose.
Another $0.01 to $0.02 of demolition cost at Mid-Pike Plaza in addition to the $0.02 to $0.03 attributable lost NOI from the space that was taken down.
And finally $0.01 to $0.02 of percentage rent in Assembly Row that will not be realized in the first year.
From a timing perspective a significant part of the mixed-used development that we have been discussing for some time is coming this year.
We expect to deliver approximately $350 million in 2014.
We are progressing well from a timing standpoint and importantly on budget.
Those deliveries include our $75 million investment at Misora which is currently 49% pre-leased and is expected to stabilize in the latter half of the year.
Approximately $125 million of our Phase 1 investment at Pike &amp; Rose will also deliver this year which includes the 174 residential units and Building 12 which we began leasing next month.
As well as the 150 000 square foot retail component which we'll open in the early fall.
As Don mentioned over 88% is pre-leased.
The retail in Phase 1 of Assembly Row which represents a $150 million of investment is over 86% pre-leased or under LOI will open in phases at summer and will stabilize in 2015.
As always with this activity that we're bringing on line we have maximum flexibility to fund it through the capital structure that we've maintained.
In summary this is an exciting year for the Trust as the deliveries have developed and that will create significant value both upon delivery and over the longer term as these premium locations generate premium rents and growth.
And of course all of this is supported by a core portfolio that continues to outperform in a balance sheet that is one of the best in the industry.
With that operator I'd like to turn the call over to questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Steve Sakwa.
Two questions.
Jim the capital plan are in the guidance for 2014 have you assumed any equity issuance and what have you assumed in kind of terms of new fixed-rate debt borrowings.
So we're going to remain opportunistic during the year in terms of what we have assumed.
We're about a $150 million of equity and we'll look to raise the balance of our development spend probably through a reopen of our existing issue or another issue later in the year.
And then it's a little bit of nuance question.
As you kind of look at the rollover schedule back on Page 23 there is a big big difference if tenants assume exercise of lease options and if they don't and it obviously skews the square footage and the expiring rents considerably.
How do we just sort of think about that? I mean is it as simple as looking back at the percentage of renewals versus new leases done in 2013? How do you think about the lease spreads in '14 and '15? That's a good question Steve I'll tell you and it has come before.
The nice thing about this portfolio is you've got a history there and you can almost count on in any particular period of time we're going to do something like 1.3 million or 1.4 million square feet of space.
That just as seems like that's growing from 1.2 or 1.3 a little bit some years ago but basically it's only a mix of tenants that exercise options and tenants that don't and there is tenant in there.
Basically if you're using number like that you'll be pretty close number one.
Number two with respect to that mix historically if you look we are pretty close to two-thirds renewals and one-third new leases.
Obviously any year could be different to that but that's a pretty good way to kind of think about our business.
2013 was a great year in terms of rollover just a great year.
I think it would be hard to match that again with rollovers like that.
But it's going to be a good year again.
And it has started out that way in the beginning part of 2014.
So make it a good year just don't make it a best of all time.
And Steve I think as Don pointed out we do historically when you go back and you look over several years get after a lot more space and what suggested by the federal.
And our next question comes from Mike Mueller.
Actually I tried to get out of the queue.
Steve touched on my question.
And our next question comes from Jeff Donnelly.
Actually a few question one on your guidance for 2014 Jim you have a lot of moving pieces going on this year.
I know you don't give quarterly guidance but are you able to maybe just talk about how we should be thinking about some of these moving pieces maybe one of the most influential ones coming and going? And I guess should we be thinking about earnings in terms of I guess will call it a quarterly rent or is it going to be more choppy than that? Let me first say we are confident in our guidance overall for the year.
As always been the case for the company we typically have a ramp from the quarters to the final quarter.
I think that will probably be exaggerated a bit this year given that we will be expanding some of that development drag earlier in the year and not realizing much NOI contribution from development until the latter part of the year.
And then the second part of that is because of the rollover I mentioned we do have some tenants taking occupancy later in the year under signed deals that will further enhanced that growth.
So year-over-year you might see more of a ramp in 2014 than you're seeing in prior years.
And then to your other point yes we are delivering a lot of development and we will have some volatility in the quarters due to things like the precise timing of the demolition of mid-Pike.
If that moves by couple of weeks that can swing things by $1 million quarter-to-quarter but overall for the year we feel confident with the guidance.
We feel good about what we're seeing the year set up in terms of the core and certainly feel very good about the development progress and the leasing progress at the projects that we're delivering.
I'm curious are you willing to share maybe where you see your Q4 sorting out it's just sort of that that's going to be base if you will for your 2015? Not at this point Jeff.
Not.
And just to switch gears on acquisition you made some acquisitions obviously during the quarter using some attractively price currency.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about the strategy of those properties? But then stepping back do they maybe foreshadow a change in your approach to acquisitions because they don't strike me at first class as necessarily maybe under managed or redevelopment candidates.
So does that imply maybe more of willingness to buy assets that might be a bit flatter as long as that pricing is right? No it doesn't imply that at all Jeffrey.
Let's talk about this a bit.
A year ago we would have talked about East Bay Bridge right which is a big power center in San Francisco.
And I think you could ask exactly the same question a year go about East Bay Bridge.
These particular assets that we bought have great long-term growth prospects.
And I guess I really want to just reiterate and I think this makes us different than a lot of retail companies.
We will buy any type of retail real estate other than malls which is not our business that's where we see a growing stream of cash flows.
A way to get to that growing stream of cash flows is either through releasing which absolutely the Grove and Brook 35 pads associated with them or from redevelopment.
And it's a cash flow business and so we look real hard at that.
And for us to buy the right properties whether they pretty like the Grove or ugly like East Bay Bridge what's pretty about both of them is where we see the cash flow projections.
And as long as they are in areas where we believe are improving areas and areas where demand is going to exceed supply you're going to see us buying.
I think this is the right down the middle of the plate for what it is that we identify from the acquisition side.
One thing I would highlight again on in this transaction Jeff is it's a structured deal.
We were able to utilize currency which was attractive here to the seller.
And if you think about some of the other opportunities that Jeff Berkes has on the West Coast and we happy around East Coast is there is a similar team in terms of the tax structuring and other things these sellers want to achieve.
And just one last question maybe to switch coasts out to Santana is I was just out there recently meeting with some property owners in the immediate area and they were telling me that demand for space is really picking up in that area particularly around Santana.
Are you guys seeing activity on remaining called sites at your project and maybe have you revisited the opportunity to buy in either homes that are to the west of your core property or even across to the street that old Century Theater or across Winchester? Have you been sitting in our management meetings? Jeff careful how you answer but answer.
Will you? Yes.
I mean things out here in Northern California are going very well as I am sure you know that our job growth is still strong and people are still spending money in a lot of cases a lot of money.
And we're seeing that in many different ways.
We are obviously seeing at the retail stores at Santana Row and the restaurant sales volumes we're seeing that at Misora where Don mentioned we're kind of in the middle of our lease up.
That project is being very very well received by the apartment renter community here.
And again as Don mentioned we're a bit above our pro forma so far on rents.
So yes we are seeing a lot of positive things going on around here.
Now would we start buying single-family homes on the east side of Santana Row? No I don't think so.
But you probably know too that we're in the middle of a rezoning of Santana Row which is going to allow us to public process and like any public process who knows what the outcome is right.
But assuming we get what we want it's going to allow us to develop the south end of the property and complete if you will Santana Row and effectively take advantage of a lot of the demand that's going on out here today.
And what we are seeing in addition to strong demand for the rental apartments and the stores and the restaurants is something we are really seeing in all of the markets in which we operate and started seeing a few years ago the different way that people look at office space.
And historically office space has been sort of the commodity product and with traffic in a lot of these major cities on the coast and also I think maybe a little bit of a different mindset from the employee and employer the other thing we are seeing is a huge huge premium being placed on office space that offers an amenity base.
So if you live out here you have an opportunity to get a job at Google or Yahoo or eBay or Apple those huge companies all have their own campuses.
But there is a ton of companies that obviously can't afford to do that and what we have here in Santana Row and quite frankly what we have in a lot of our mixed-use properties is a built-in campus that's heavily amenitized.
So I am not sure yet what we're going to do or when we're going to do it but we're definitely setting ourselves up to be flexible and take advantage of what you pointed out which is strong strong demand around our mixed-use properties here at Santana specifically.
Our next question comes from Christy McElroy.
I'm wondering if you could confirm that you have applied to be the master developer for the Union Square revitalization in Somerville.
Can you just talk generally about that essential project and what it might mean for Somerville and for Assembly Row? I can talk a little bit about it Christy.
Yes I mean there is an opportunity that's a broad-based opportunity in Union Square that section of Somerville to effectively to redeveloping and create the kind of urban fabric that we've done in some other places.
And so with a full service office up there including most importantly frankly Don Briggs and the relationships that we've build and the understanding of Somerville we want to have a look at that.
It's early in the process.
These things take long time as you know.
We're not spending any money at this point.
We're simply trying to look at whether we can be part or whether we should be part of what we'll ultimately be a pretty cool urbanization if you will of a great area of Somerville.
Regarding the Pike &amp; Rose residential delivery I know you said you're opening your leasing office next month what percentage are you sort of budgeting to be pre-released that opening and then sort of yearend? On the residential? Yes on the residential.
Let me just to be clear so we've got 212 units I believe in the first building.
Actually it's 174.
We have 174 units at Building 12 at Pike &amp; Rose.
The sales office will open up something like March 1 something like that.
We've got a real long list together and in fact hundreds long today of interested parties.
We don't have money down on any but a couple of people.
We just have to be there.
I do believe the demand that has been anecdotal demand in what's happened so far is going to mean real strong demand and lease up.
Now we're going to have to see but going through that the number that we expect to be by the end of the year of that 174 its how many Dawn do you know? It's 15 to 24 month as we're averaging about 100 and 120-ish range.
So if you think about starting around May and going from May through the end of the year at 15 to 22 month that will give you a pretty good idea.
Then the rest will finish up in '15.
And then just lastly following-up on Jeff's question and your answer Don about buying retail real estate with growing cash flows how does sort of urban street retail fit into that like Manhattan Chicago especially as retailers are kind of focusing a lot on having sort of flagship base to drive overall brand how do you think about street retail? Listen it's one of the areas that make a lot of sense.
The problem is how do you execute it.
And the more urban the streets get whether you're talking about Lincoln Road or whether you are talking about Chicago wherever you are talking about it's hard to get any critical mass.
And we found that out the hard way frankly and in the 90s.
You can buy one-off buildings and that's fine except it doesn't allow you to really impact the street.
The street is going to be what the street is and you'll rise when things are good and you'll fall when things are not as good.
And I do look at those streets as positive things generally over the next decade or two or three.
But we prefer to be able to create that environment or at least have significant impact on that environment because that helps us drive rents.
It's a very hard to do that on a one-off basis on those streets.
So that's a hair in the overall argument for us.
And our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb.
And we'll continue the theme Jeff Donnelly's questions.
On Santana Row just given how the tech boom this cycle has a lot longer legs than it did back in the dotcom how are you guys thinking about building out the rest of Santana? Especially as demand for office space increases and makes office right now sort of a valuable asset class.
Is there a push from your end to try and capture that as quickly as you can or is that sort of classic Federal and just sort of follow a patient prudent pace and not be forced by what's going on with the market at the moment? Great question Alex.
Let me start on this Jeff and please correct me wherever you would like to.
Its classic Federal plus the reality is Alex what we've spend as you know a long time building and growing and massaging on that 40 acres at Santana Row is it's humming pretty well.
And as Jeff was saying there is clearly not only a market that looks pretty good out there but there are market trends that look real good for us and our type of projects when it comes to the amenity base.
So we're working real hard.
We're working plans right now for the end of that street we would love to be able to go to investment committee and then effectively to the board and be able to talk about something late this year to be able to get started out there and that is directly at the end of the street.
I think it would have an office component.
I think it would have residential component.
I think it will have a resell component.
And I do not think that that has all embedded today as we sit here on February whatever it is to be able to give you more specifics on that.
But there is absolutely a sense of urgency from the standpoint of careful urgency and there is the plus the classic Federal to being able to develop at the end of street.
And what's probably going to be what we seem to see is the very strong Silicon Valley market that probably has five six seven years or less.
So basically around NAREIT time or this earnings call a year from now you will be able to give us a lot more color on what's going to go on in the South end.
That would be very very helpful.
That would be our hope yes.
The second question is you guys talked about pushing more turnover this year which is a theme you know that a number of your brethren have also been emphasizing but 2013 was obviously a very good landlords market as well.
Do you see it as simply a continuation of the leverage that you guys had in '13 or your view is that the demand is even greater in '14 and then there is even a great ability for you guys as landlords to push turnover and get in more productive tenants? Neither of those choices it's the third choice.
Opportunity has presented itself.
And I'll give you very specific example when we bought East Bay Bridge there are clearly tenants there that do extremely well and there are other tenants there that don't.
We're working hard and effectively we have made progress and being able to replace two of those tenants with much better economics much better merchandising be able to create a much better shopping center.
We will be able to get there this year we believe.
Two boxes we'll go dark this year.
That's great news.
Will occupancy dip? Sure.
Who cares? That's all about creating value there.
I could say that about the same in Melville Long Island where we're very close to a deal to replace one of the boxes.
What we are talking about generally the reason we're talking about it here or Jim mentioned it proactively in this call is because they are anchor boxes and they take big pieces of space.
So they will move the occupancy number.
To the extent we have that and don't have anything to fill it its bad news.
In every case we are sitting there with a very very good with great alternatives where demand exceeds supply.
And so you'll see some of these occupancy hit this year but you'll see from my perspective great value creation at those shopping centers.
So most of those spaces you have already backfilled or you are in talks with the signed contractors.
We are working deals.
Nothing is a done deal it never is at the stage in that type when there is another tenant that's still in operating but we're real confident effectively when the demand exceeds supply that we will get our deals done.
And the final is just a Jim Taylor question.
Jim on the guidance that you laid out and the $0.13 to $0.15 hit for this year for everything going on you spoke about if I got my notes right $0.01 to $0.02 from demolition $0.02 to $0.03 from lost NOI.
I would sort of think that would be the same but I didn't hear you mention an offset from having increased capitalized interest so if you could just run back through those? There is not much of an increase because of capitalized interest because of how we are funding it.
We are not writing out on the line with cheap debt and capitalizing at a higher rate Alex.
So there is not a spread there.
In terms of the impact at midpoint we now have to expand demolition cost years ago when I learned GAAP they were capitalized.
But we won't be taking that.
In addition year-over-year we're loosing about $0.02 to $0.03 of NOI at that center as we take it down.
So those really are the components there.
And again as I mentioned we'll have more marketing cost as we bring up on these great mixed-use platforms and build customer awareness and build shopping practices.
There will be more marketing dollars that we spend as we open these projects then we'll spend on a recurring basis.
And finally the other big component to add again is we'll be opening up multifamily projects and leasing them into stabilization but as they open and we stop capitalizing that interest NOI initially will be below where that capitalized interest would be on that and then back to the capitalized interest it ends up being a wash based on how we are financing it.
And the next question comes from Nathan Isbee.
Federal doesn't report sales numbers like as you call it your mall brethren but you do have a fair amount of retailers that do report sales.
I'm just curious if you can give us some anecdotal figures on how sales and traffic trends look? I will.
It's a particular piece of mind Nat because I wish in the shopping center business and the shopping center world it was more common to have tenants report.
I mean basically of our 20 million square feet we have about 6 million square feet that reports.
So I hate that.
And when you look at where it is we've got almost complete reporting with great information to be able to analyze and talk about at Santana and there will be at the mixed-use projects that we're doing but our acquired shopping centers over the years they don't generally.
So it's a real mix bag.
What we see I can tell you overall is modest sales growth and flat traffic and when I say flat traffic the only data we have are our specific counters that we do have at Santana or on the East Coast specific traffic studies that we do and counts that we do but nothing that is statistically significant or frankly able to be relied on.
So what my comments are anecdotal comments.
I also feel really good frankly that the sales productivity generally that we're seeing that there is a wider grouping of tenants that do really well and others that don't do as well rather than we see that is part of why there are tenants like Loehmann's that are going away that it is why there are the opportunity to do stuff with the Office Depot OfficeMax consolidation that's happening in the industry because they are underperforming and there are transactions happening to handle those type of tenancies.
I love that the newer the better tenants that we frankly invest capital in some cases to grow are doing better than we thought that they would be doing at this point in time.
So I guess that's not really much different than what I've said over the years.
It really always is a tale of two cities in some respects and why you really do have to merchandise with the tenants for the next 10 years and not the tenants with the last 10.
So I mean I guess the world is changing and from a merchandising perspective aside from usual suspects that we all know about has Federal changed your approach in terms of what you want what you're going to work to get out et cetera? Chris you can add to this.
But certainly I think the answer is yes.
I think when we look at the importance of amenities to the other uses so the residential use or an office use and everything else and we really think hard about what are retail uses that are important and to the future not to the past.
It is why you see us investing in the restaurant industry generally the way we do to use that bankers.
And by the way the thing I love about them compared to traditional anchors is that they are not subsidized deals effectively.
So now that doesn't mean a restaurant is an anchor it means a grouping of restaurants is an anchor.
It means when one or two or three of them go away because the restaurant business is hard so what because you're looking at it as a portfolio of seven or 10 or 12 restaurants.
So that whole strategy I think we've gotten really good at.
I think we've gotten good at that by in part necessity the type of product that we're building but also because we've been doing it for a long time.
And so we've got leasing people who are specializing effectively in that different part of world.
I think if you look at health clubs I think we talked about health clubs 10 years ago or 15 year ago they were completely different types of business in terms of the business model than they are today and where they're going forward how they're going forward.
The Bally's model of 1999 is not that it's not a pre-funded model.
So I do think Nate you are seeing and we have our eyes always on the future largely because the type of thing that we're investing in and building often have other uses that are dependent on getting the merchandising just right.
I would just add to that our culture with regard to leasing is all about merchandise mix.
It's how do we create the best mousetrap that best serves the needs of the signing community and brings that consumer to our project over other shopping centers around us.
I would point to one very specific example which we're ecstatic about up at Mercer Mall in Princeton.
We're taking out one of our electronics retailers which as we all know is a challenged category right now because of the internet sales and the competition in that specific category and replacing it with Nordstrom Rack.
We're putting in an amazing soft goods brand that will complement Bed Bath and Beyond and our Ross and our T.J.
Maxx and the other smaller soft goods retailers there.
We're actually downsizing that center as well DSW who has too much space and bringing in another very complementary category or tenant called Charming Charlie's.
So we're always looking opportunistically at how we can improve our tenant mix in this environment to bring the consumer and better mix for our existing retailers to drive traffic and sales.
And then just as a follow-up there's been a lot of changes in the peer group so some REITs getting smaller concentrating on certain geographies others getting bigger expanding nationally.
Just curious from your perspective how much would you say geographic concentration matters in retail in general and perhaps how that differs with your portfolio? I do believe it matters.
I believe it matters for the most fundamental reason that has nothing to do with synergies or kind of the obvious things.
I believe it matters because this is a local business and there is no point than I am more sure of after doing this here for 15 years then we do a far better job when we have a concentrated group of shopping centers in an area that we know like the back of our hand.
And it follows in the type of things that we're building it follows in the limited number of markets we're in it follows in the type of things within those markets that we are buying.
I firmly believe that that benefit at the local knowledge and local operations if you will from leasing to development to property management all of those things that's where your make your incremental money much more than in a very expanded generic type of business plan.
At least that's our experience.
And then just finally on Assembly the Partners Health deal I'm just curious bringing in 4 700 workers to that site.
How the site is currently designed if it can handle that many incremental cars people et cetera and what you might be doing to address that? One of the main reasons that Partners choose that site was something that we've been trying to address for seven years and that's getting a T-Stop to stop there and it does.
And so the dynamics of that piece of land truly completely changed in terms of accessibility and logistics the day that the MBTA in Massachusetts have turned that stop.
It changed the site.
That's huge.
In addition to that when you take a look at the brand new infrastructure and road that are built and part of it $15 million of which was funded was one of the first shovel-ready projects in the country and was federally funded which is at Grant Park Avenue that goes right through it.
Now there is no question that both the T-Stop the new infrastructure around the property and most importantly the highway infrastructure which is right there and that's been underutilized in terms of that site in that area forever is able to handle it and enthusiastically so after being underutilized for decades.
So no incremental infrastructure close to get them in? More than there's been.
I mean we paid fees for the T.
We paid if off.
And our next question comes from Jason White.
Just to stick on the tenant front for a minute.
It seems that food uses have been taking up a lot of space post-recession with a lot of internet challenged categories kind of going away.
How much food use can strip centers or retail centers really support long-term without other categories coming in and backfilling some space that's going away? Yes.
I love that question.
It depends.
The one thing that I was kind of worried about when I talk about our belief in food categories is I don't put enough parentheses around this or explanatory comments.
It depends on the right food uses it depends on the supply that's available in the surrounding communities it absolutely depends on the operator who is good at it effectively doing.
And just like anything else of course it can absolutely be -- we can too much we can over-absorb if you will.
So there are a lot of places that we see the right type of food uses and hitting a giant lacking in that community and this wasn't me this was my predecessors.
And my predecessors said you're telling me you can drive up and down Stevens Creek Boulevard and there was every path to replace in the world on Stevens Creek Boulevard in between every car dealership in the world.
But there was no amalgamation of quality differentiating price point experiential restaurants.
That's what Santana brought.
That's why it so powerful.
If you look at the pure numbers the square footage of food uses that was available there before it was tons.
You wouldn't have said well god we need more food we need the right type of food.
And that applies today Jason.
So to the extent people talk about well yes we're doing a lot more food in just a big generic way you got to dig down and figuring out are they really hitting a consumer need in that particular community.
And then one more question on Assembly Row as you dabble in the outlet world.
Have you identified any other properties that might be a good fit for big redevelopment and outlet type deal? I love the dabble in the outlet world.
Can I just address that for a second? I feel like I need to.
We are not dabbling any outlet world with respect to Assembly.
What we're creating in Assembly is different it really is.
It's not going to be a typical outlet center.
It's not going to be a typical mixed-use center.
It's not going to be an entertainment center.
What we are doing there is trying to put together usage and the type of retailers that we think that community dramatically lacks.
And that's why the merchandising mix is what we think works and makes sense there.
Now there is no question that as part of our dabbling in the outlet world we develop some pretty darn good relationships with retailers and pieces of retailers that's not their full-line stores but they're outlet concept.
So we have developed and increased our relationships there.
It would be very unusual for us not to take advantage.
You'd be mad at us if we didn't take advantage of those new found relationships and use them throughout other parts of Federal Realty's portfolio.
But the notion of taking other parts of Federal Realty portfolio and converting them to outlet malls would be the wrong way to think about it.
And then lastly just in terms of dispositions this year do you guys have anything contemplated? Yes we got a couple of them that we're going through the pre-marketing on shopping centers that really don't fit us anymore.
In some cases it's rent growth in terms of what we see there in another place it's geographical.
But we're looking hard at probably selling two this year two shopping centers.
And your next question comes from Craig Schmidt.
On the two new New Jersey properties how long will it be before you can really tap into the below-market rents and also improve the overall leasing? And I guess on a follow-up what will Metrovation be working on beyond the two New Jersey projects? I love the question Craig.
First of all the first answer to your first question is 37 days.
And I say that a little tongue-in-cheek but not really what I am trying to say there is already in the first two deals that we have negotiated we are beating our underwriting pro forma because the demand to get into that shopping center particularly the Grove absolutely exceeds the supply available.
Now that doesn't mean we are emptying out the Grove and releasing it with lots of new tenants at 40% more rent.
The Metrovation folks have done an amazing job of creating a pretty darn good merchandising there.
But you know they are now and this goes to your second part of the question our trick is to take this great work that these folks have done and the great talents of these folks and to not take any of the negatives away but add to them the platform that is Federal.
The relationships that Federal Realty has and we have bigger portfolio and a lot of the tenants that are at the Grove and Brook 35 are tenants that make a lot of sense for sense for us for Santana for Bethesda Row for Charlottesville for Barracks Road.
There are a bunch of those type of shopping centers and retail centers in our portfolio that that will really open up opportunities for the Grove.
So as they come up Craig you should continue to expect to see improving NOI there.
Now that team which with albeit at a much slower platform and much left to work with effectively in terms of resources has done a great job there and we would like them to help us help do a better job at Brick Shopping Center which is in the marketplace we've own Brick for a long time but its one of those shopping centers that we manage from Philadelphia.
While going back to what I said before it's hard to imagine that those folks even though Brick Shopping Center is a power type center with some small shop it's a very different type of shopping center those folks right there they're going to run.
That should help us in very end with our plan for the ultimate plan for the redevelopment and add shopping centers.
So the team and the resources that we're getting we're working really hard to make sure we don't screw up if you will the great parts of them but to supplement the benefits of having a bigger platform in Federal.
Craig there is another part of your question in terms of investment opportunities and Chris Cole in particular is already keying up the ancillary opportunities to the existing assets as well as other investment opportunities in the Greater New York Metro region sort of enhancing what we're already turning up with Harold and team.
So we're excited about that prospect as well.
And our next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste.
Can you talk about your estimated occupancy cost ratio and target occupancy cost ratio for centers like Santana Bethesda? I guess I can.
I can tell you that first of all overall at Federal overall at Federal the occupancy ratio was around 8.
And I very much believe that overall even today that could be 11 or 12.
Now within the portfolio when you break it down to the Santana the Bethesda and a grocery-anchored shopping center which is obviously very different.
I mean you have got huge differences associated with that.
And I'll talk Bethesda and let Jeff do Santana.
When I look at Bethesda today and see what had happened with our rents.
Our rents and our sales -- our sales are much better than they used to be.
Our rents are higher.
The rental growth has been higher than the sales growth over a long period of time.
But the business is better in there are healthier business than there used to be.
The businesses can afford higher occupancy costs and there is the fundamental problem that you have in your job you're trying to make everybody comparable.
The reality is that our work on the merchandising our work on putting the right tenants together is partly -- not partly largely so that they are able to pay higher rent and higher occupancy ratios.
So we try hard to get the right type of tenants including the ones that are operating the best way.
So at Bethesda today I think that probably overall occupancy in the 9s.
And I think there is more room to go there than almost anywhere else.
I don't know about Santana how do you feel Jeff.
Yes it's one of those things that's difficult to paint with the broad brush because there is a high degree of variability depending on the tenant type whether it's a sit-down or a quick-serve restaurant whether it's vertically integrated retailer or not I think on average our occupancy cost ratios at Santana are 200 basis points higher than they are at Bethesda but it's something we look really hard at and work with the tenants on.
We want to make sure we're getting as much rent as possible.
We also want to make sure we have successful businesses obviously and a lot of that discussion goes into the structuring of the lease and percentage rent breakpoints and that kind of thing.
And there is also a bit of a moving target too as the sales per square foot productivity moves up what a tenant can afford to pay in rents and what the occupancy cost ratio can look like on those incremental sales once they get over a level where their fixed costs are covered changes to.
So it's highly variable.
But I think that's a low-double digits number at Santana with probably some room to grow as sales here have grown right.
We've seen significant sales growth over the last two or three years.
There is definitely a little bit of headwind there.
And on Mercer Mall and Barracks Road the yield went down on Mercer and up on Barracks Road versus last quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about what's changed at those two projects? And then also what moved the anticipated stabilization on the Shops at Willow Lawn from 2013 to 2014? Let me handle your question on Barracks and Mercer.
Really nothing has changed on those.
I mean as you can the numbers the capital we're talking about is relatively small and really what happens is you have little movement as you start refining your numbers.
Barracks is probably a little bit more definitive because we are closer to the end so we have a very clear cost side of the equation.
We know what the revenue is we know what the cost releasing contingencies looks a little bit better than we have anticipated.
Mercer is nothing more than the normal little bit of moving around as you're progressing through the process and just rounding as we're reflecting it there.
And what was the last question? Willow? And Willow Lawn has pushed back a bit on stabilization as we're getting the restaurant anchors in this year.
So we'll have some additional leasing activity around that.
And then last one can you talk about new developments how can you show 3% to 4% same-store NOI growth in the second year with little or I guess no rollover? You know I've said this before and until I am proven wrong and I don't think I will be I believe our business the shopping center business is a 1.5% to 2% grower.
That's what I think it is.
I think Federal is a 3% grower.
Occupancy neutral over a long period of time that's what our business is.
Within that period of time occupancy is never neutral number one.
And there are cycles effectively it's not as pronounced as in some of the other sectors but there are cycles.
Right now it's good cycle.
And I think these numbers are really really strong.
I don't think that in the business in general that shopping center business can sustain 3.5% and 4% growth occupancy neutral.
I don't think it's that type of business.
And to get to some of the products that we're delivering to and why we're excited about these mixed-used environments is that they do tend to grow not just with what the retail ground floor is doing and that percentage rents and other things that we generate above the fixed minimum rent on the ground floor.
Importantly we're driving growth in things like the multifamily and the other uses that are part of that environment.
And that's how we see those assets even after we deliver it continue to grow kind of better than a typical shopping center.
And our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya.
Just a couple of quick ones on Assembly.
First of all wanted to get a sense of how well the AVB assets are doing there and how that could shape how you start to think about Phase 2 of the project although Phase 2 is still a couple of years out? First Tayo would you please call Tim Naughton and ask about the AvalonBay and how they're doing there.
Those are his units and he is working on I can tell you anecdotally what we hear and what Dawn Becker will tell us from being on the sites.
They're doing really well.
They have dramatically beaten their pro forma's in terms of rents.
But again how many of them are done where they are let AvalonBay report on that project.
I can tell you there is kind of no doubts in our mind that it is very hard very hard and this kind of shows it in a mixed-used project to get truly paid for partners that are in the other uses.
That are just in the other units it's very hard for AVB to come and underwrite what we believe they can do if we deliver the street right.
The same with hotels the same with office it's same with everything else.
It's very hard which is why we do tend to do the residential in particular ourselves on these projects.
Because we believe if we do the street right it gives a great premium that comes from there.
At Assembly at the time we wanted to validate this site.
It was a place that was 400 miles away if you will from where we headquarter and so that's why they got the deal.
Going forward I mean we'll look real hard at doing those ourselves.
As we talked about at our Investor Day those rents are in the low $3 a foot and they were underwritten originally in the mid-teens.
So they're hitting the ball out of the park.
And then I may have missed it but did you make any commentary about the office building in phase one and the lease above upon asset? No we started that building later and we're working real hard to kind of catch up so that that building is effectively all closed in when we open the street.
We want that all of it to now feel like a construction site so we're working hard and we're making real good progress that way.
A lot of activity particularly since the Partners stuff was reported in the Boston Globe with other office users looking hard.
So we've got a lot of activity but I don't have a lease done that I can report to you yet.
And then just one last one just some of the recent commentary about RadioShack closing 500 stores just kind of curious what you think about that if there's any potential impact to your portfolio? I don't want to sound callous here but I'm probably been a sound callous here.
Retailers come and retailers go.
We have a few in the portfolio.
We have a few in our portfolio they're in very good centers.
And if it come back we will have no problem replacing them.
Overall they're below market rent.
And our last question comes from Paul Morgan.
You talked in the past about kind of lumpiness in the lease spread metric driven by occasional anchor leases that have been long and flat in view.
And I'm just wondering whether kind of the ramp up in this reported spreads over the last couple of quarters has been driven by that especially in the fourth quarter? And it seems like you suggested that it might be tough to replicate kind of what you did last quarter in 2014? And is there any color in kind of what drove the spread last quarter? Go back Paul in my prepared remarks I kind of went through that.
I went through that how broad-based if you will that the increase the 25% was.
And in fact I had said that's rare that it is that broad-based.
And I do believe that broad-based type of increase probably continues into 2014 but it can't continue forever.
That is record stuff.
I mean when you talk about that kind of lease productivity.
So I just don't want you as an investor or an analyst to effectively say oh man this company does 25% lease rollovers and that's would I ought a model in for the next three years.
I just don't think that's realistic.
Is not a commentary at all on the marketplace it's simply commentary that that is kind of record stuff.
And it's just unrealistic to think that that's the way this business is going to grow constantly.
I think you're going to see some good stuff in 2014 too but not in the tippy-top 1 percentile of how we can perform on that measure.
The remerchandising you said is going to eat into occupancy early in the year that leasing activity isn't reflected in the fourth quarter.
It seems like I heard during the call you said those aren't really done deals yet even though obviously you're excited enough to take space out that you think you're going to get probably good spreads there too but that really wasn't part of the fourth quarter is that right? It's just a matter of timing.
And I couldn't tell you exactly when this year the boxes go dark.
When you have to fix that space you turn it over to your new tenants they've build out their space.
It's just takes time.
So the reality is through most of the year maybe it's through the specific date of 12/31 I don't know that there will be that process going on which will affect the occupancy stats.
I don't really have more color than that.
And I don't know if you've got too.
That's kind of all we got.
And just lastly in the weather on East Coast to what extent is it impacting anything related to the developments the timing and/or how should we think about it in terms of a first quarter expense impact? I'll take the second part of that question and clearly the snow costs are beginning to pile up in the quarter.
We have another snow storm coming in and while we recover most in that there is some linkage where we have multifamily or where we have 10 shops in place.
And so I do expect some headwind in the first quarter due to snow and still feel good about our guidance for the year but certainly we'll be doing that.
In terms of the timing of the development and the impact of weather to date we're on time and on budget as I said earlier.
And obviously we can't predict perfectly what will be happening in the future.
We don't see any major obstacles through our schedule.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
And you may now disconnect.