Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] My name is Tom and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We're pleased to host today's first quarter 2011 earnings webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast.
The slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
Due to the holiday tomorrow we are reporting one day early and we recognize this is a very busy earnings day for analysts and investors.
To manage time constraints we'll move through the presentation fairly quickly and we would appreciate if you could limit the questions to 1 per person during the Q&amp;A period.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking.
They are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes please interpret them in that light.
For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
Now I'd like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Trevor.
Good morning everyone.
Just on the first page just to give you an overview I think another good quarter for the company.
Just to summarize some of the highlights.
Despite the general volatility our environment continues to improve and get better.
We had strong top line performance and the leading indicators are getting better.
We had industrial revenue growth of 8% 5% industrial organic revenue growth 12% international growth with Brazil up Australia China and India.
Infrastructure orders were up in the quarter and had real strength in both equipment and services.
Earnings growth continues operating EPS was up 65%.
GE Capital had a really good quarter as did Healthcare Transportation and Aviation.
Energy Infrastructure had lower first half but we expect growth to resume in the second half.
A solid execution the GE balance sheet continues to be very strong and the GE Capital portfolio transformation is ahead of plan.
And $82 billion of cash on the company's balance sheet.
And we're executing a capital allocation plan kind of in line with what we've talked about with investors in the past.
We announced our third dividend increase this morning we're up 50% since the second quarter of 2010.
We bought back $2.3 billion of stocks since we restarted our buyback and we've either closed or announced substantial transactions really in our Energy business one small one in our Healthcare business so we continue to execute on our capital allocation plan.
From an order standpoint we have strong orders in the quarter up 13% overall and 10% organically.
Our strength was across the board and backlog grew to a record of $177 billion.
It's worth pointing out some of the positive trends in energy.
We had strength in both equipment and services pricing appears to be stabilizing and most importantly large gas turbine quote activity is increasing.
So we did see solid orders growth in the first quarter.
From an execution and operations standpoint like I said in December we're investing more in research and development about 12% more in the first quarter of '11.
This is producing more new products and that's helping to drive our orders growth.
From a margin standpoint we're down year-over-year.
This is primarily in our Energy business due to 2 primary factors: Wind turbine pricing and acquisition revenues at lower margins.
Overall material deflation continued and we should see deflation for the year.
And through the year our margins will strengthen quarter-by-quarter.
So that's really the story from an execution and operations standpoint.
From a cash standpoint we remain on track for $12 billion to $13 billion of CFOA for the year.
For the quarter our results are impacted by the NBCU transaction and working capital growth to support equipment sales through the year.
Overall GE's balance sheet remains very strong with $82 billion of consolidated cash and $15.5 billion of cash at the parent.
So a story of strong cash flow liquidity and just strength in the balance sheet.
I think that the things we've talked about with investors in the past that all remains intact in the first quarter and we're really happy about that.
From a capital allocation standpoint we really are seeing balanced and disciplined capital allocation and that remains an important part of our overall strategy.
As we said last year we wanted to redeploy capital from NBC Universal to fast growth in our Energy investments.
And with Converteam and Dresser and Wood Group Wellstream and Lineage our major transactions are done for 2011.
Meanwhile we continue to emphasize growing the dividend as reflected by today's increase our third in the past 9 months.
We're focused on reducing our share count in 2011 and retiring the preferred equity by October of this year.
And finally GE Capital has very strong Tier 1 ratios and we really have done I think an outstanding job.
Mike Neal and the team have strengthened GE Capital coming out of the financial crisis.
So we feel good about our capital allocation plan.
I think in the quarter we've executed on the things we said we were going to do for our investors and this positions us I think for good long-term growth and as the year goes on and into 2012.
So with that I'll turn it over to Keith to go through the first quarter operations.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
I'm going to start with the first quarter summary.
For the quarter we had continuing operations revenue of $38.4 billion it was up 6%.
Industrial sales of $22 billion were down 6% and the difference is created by NBCU.
Our pretax gain that we have from the result of selling a majority stake to Comcast is included in revenue but that also means we only had one month of NBCU sales in 2011 because we closed at the end of January.
So I'll describe the gain on the next page but a better indicator of our industrial revenue performance is on the right side.
You can see we had $20.8 billion of Industrial segment revenue and that was up 8%.
Financial Services revenue of $13.2 billion was up 3% for operating earnings which excludes our non-operating pension expense.
We earned $3.6 billion which was up 58% and for operating earnings per share we earned $0.33 per share in the quarter up 65%.
As Jeff covered we delivered $1.7 billion of cash from operating activities which was down 34% principally driven by NBCU.
And for taxes as we covered with you in January we have a couple of large items that increased our tax rate for the first quarter.
First there's a large tax on NBCU which I'll cover on the next page.
The GE rate x GE Capital 68% for the quarter.
But excluding the NBCU gain the GE rate was 22% which is in line with the low- to mid-20s range we gave in January.
The second big factor that affects taxes in the quarter is that the GE Capital tax rate has also gone up as we've expanded pretax income.
The $800 million increase in tax expense is all explained by the tax on the $2.1 billion increase in GE Capital pretax income in the quarter year-over-year.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
I'm going to go through each business in more detail in the next several pages.
Industrial segment revenue was up 8%.
Segment profit was up 1% with all segments growing except Energy and GE Capital had a very strong quarter driving the overall results.
One other point on the memo on the bottom left we said that we would communicate the amount of NBCU earnings every quarter.
I'm not going to go into any details on the results.
Comcast is going to cover that in their upcoming earnings call.
However for the first quarter excluding the gain on sales GE included $93 million of pretax income from NBC Universal.
Before I get into the businesses I'm just going to cover some of the other items that affected the quarter.
First is the NBCU gain.
As we said previously we expected a small after-tax gain when we closed the NBCU transaction.
As you all know we closed at the end of January.
There was a gain of $400 million after tax on this NBCU transaction.
The pretax gain on our sale of NBCU was $3.6 billion and that reflects Comcast's new ownership of NBCU and our receipt of $6.2 billion in cash and a 49% investment in the new JV.
Because the JV is structured as a partnership the taxes are recorded separately from the investment that we hold.
So we had a very high tax rate on the transaction of $3.2 billion of tax expense reflecting both our low historic tax basis in the NBCU assets and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities on our 49% investment in the JV.
If you look down below on the page partially offsetting that gain we had $0.02 of after-tax charges in corporate related to restructuring and other charges.
We had some slight downsizing in Energy Aviation and Healthcare and we also had some capital defleeting.
By business just to give you the details of the charges.
On a pretax basis Energy was $66 million Aviation was $66 million Healthcare was $44 million Capital was $58 million Corporate was $48 million and H&amp;BS was $11 million.
We also had $0.01 of after-tax deal-related costs that we took at corporate.
Those are related to the Energy deals that we had.
So the NBCU gain was a little higher than we expected and $0.01 of that gain fell through to operations.
One other point on the quarter not on the page but we did have 6 more days in Q1 '11 versus Q1 '10 based on our fiscal calendar.
We really don't have as much of a flow portfolio as we used to without Plastics and NBC Universal.
However if you look at the impact on our service businesses on the flow businesses in GE Capital and on Home &amp; Business Solutions we had roughly $0.01 positive from the additional days.
On the other hand we also had about $0.005 of negatives related to the disruption in Japan and Japan's going to be covered by Jeff later in the pitch.
So NBCU gained $0.04 in the quarter and partially offset by the other items.
For the business results I'm going to start with GE Capital.
Mike Neal and the team delivered another quarter demonstrating significantly improving results.
Our revenue of $12.3 billion was up 3%.
That includes the impact of the Garanti sale.
We announced back in November that we were disposing of our Garanti stake and we estimated we have a $300 million after-tax profit on that and then we announced that it was going to close in the first quarter.
So if you adjust for the Garanti sale which in revenue was about $700 million revenue would've been down about 2% which was in line with our framework.
Pretax earnings of $2.3 billion in the first quarter were up $2.1 billion.
They were within $50 million of the total pretax for all of 2010 so a significant improvement in pretax.
Net income of $1.8 billion was up $1.3 billion.
We did have the benefit of the $300 million after-tax of the Garanti gain.
But even without that GE Capital had a great quarter.
We had $940 million of after-tax lower credit costs and margin impairments year-over-year.
Our volume was up 19% that was mostly driven by the Commercial business which was up 56% from last year.
We had $10.4 billion of volume in the quarter.
Our consumer volume was up 9% over last year and the new business margins remain strong.
The overall portfolio margin was 5.1% in the first quarter.
As Jeff said our capital ratios are strong and continue to improve and we continue to see broad-based improvement in our asset quality metrics.
So let me go through some of the business results that you can see on the bottom left.
First is Consumer.
Our Consumer business continued to deliver very strong results in the quarter.
We ended the quarter with $147 billion of assets which was down 7% and that's driven by the continued run-off in our Mortgage and our Auto businesses.
In the first quarter our U.S.
retail assets were up 7% and consumer net income of $1.3 billion was up 120%.
That included the gain from Garanti.
Excluding the Garanti gain net income of $940 million was up 65% driven by $400 million of lower credit costs.
Our U.S.
Retail Finance business earned $545 million up 88% also driven by lower credit losses as the portfolio performance continues to improve.
And without including anything from the Garanti gain our Global Banking business earned $281 million in the quarter up 77% also driven by lower credit losses.
In the quarter U.K.
Home Lending earned $63 million the sixth consecutive quarter with positive pretax and net income.
Commercial Real Estate.
Our Commercial Real Estate business is still facing losses as you can see but we're seeing early signs of improvement.
We lost $358 million in the first quarter but that was $45 million to $50 million better than last year's first or fourth quarter.
In the first quarter we had $55 million of after-tax credit losses and $315 million of after-tax margin impairments.
And during the quarter we sold 113 properties for $1.3 billion with $28 million of gains.
Our assets are down 14% year-over-year and down 2% from year end.
And we're seeing some early signs of increased liquidity for our quality properties.
We're seeing stabilizing rents and some places with rising occupancy.
Overall on the average some improvement in the debt portfolio 1% to 2% in values in the quarter so better than last year but still challenging.
Our Commercial Lending and Leasing business also had another strong quarter.
Earnings of $554 million were up 139% from last year.
The results there were driven by lower losses and higher core income from pricing and fees.
It's pretty broad-based.
The Americas were up 81% Europe was up 24% and Asia was up 90%.
GECAS continues to have a good performance.
The earnings of $306 million were down 3% from last year.
The portfolio continues to be in strong shape.
We had $16 million in non-earnings and 0 aircraft on the ground.
And Energy Financial Service earned $112 million which was down 27% driven by lower gains year-over-year.
So overall a really strong quarter for GE Capital.
Next is asset quality.
In the interest of time I'm not going to go through all the detail here.
On the left side you can see our delinquencies continued to improve across all the portfolios.
Our non-earning assets declined by $500 million overall and our coverage on our reserves to non-earnings was basically flat.
On the right side you can see our write-offs at $1.7 billion were greater than our new loss provision of $1.3 billion.
So reserves came down by $400 million.
Overall reserves ended the quarter at $7.6 billion and the coverage was down 5 basis points to 2.42% as the portfolio performance continues to get better.
Next I'm going to shift to Energy over to Industrial.
Energy orders of $7.3 billion in the quarter were up 17%.
Orders were up 10% organically.
With Equipment up 10% and Services up 10%.
The thermal orders of $730 million were up 57%.
We had orders for 27 gas turbines versus 10 in the first quarter of last year.
The orders price for thermal was down 6%.
We had strong Aero orders of $387 million.
They were up over 100%.
And we had wind orders of $930 million that were down 22%.
We had orders for 327 units this year versus 494 last year and the orders price for wind was down 3%.
Service orders of $3.9 billion were up 15% driven by strong power gen services and measurement control systems in digital energy.
In the quarter revenues of $7.8 billion were up 9%.
That's 4% organically driven by the higher volume.
Renewables revenue was up 31% to $1.1 billion.
We shipped 366 wind turbines versus 349 last year but the growth came from more 2.5-megawatt units so we had some mix impact there.
For thermal the revenues were down 15%.
We shipped 9 fewer gas turbines 32 this year in the first quarter versus 41 last year.
And service revenues of $3.7 billion were also up 9%.
Segment profit was down 9%.
The benefits that we received from the higher volume were more than offset by lower price on wind and we had net $115 million of higher programs and global investments.
And we also had a small benefit of $29 million for the results of Dresser and Lineage in the quarter.
Bottom on the right you can see Oil &amp; Gas orders for the business were up 7% driven by equipment orders up 11% and service orders up 3%.
Wellstream added 4 points for the orders in the first quarter.
Orders here are also lumpy on a quarterly basis.
We had a strong growth in petrochemicals and refineries and strong growth in drilling and production both up over 60% and that was partially offset by lower orders in both Turbomachinery and the Natural Gas segments.
Revenues of $1.8 billion in the quarter were up 12% driven by the growth in equipment up 17% and good strong services up 6%.
And segment profit of $199 million was up 4% as the benefits of higher volume and deflation were partially offset by negative foreign exchange and higher program investments.
So overall we expect Energy to continue to be down in the second quarter and then we will see Energy returning to growth in the second half of the year.
Now we don't have the businesses split in the technology infrastructure anymore so I'll cover them separately.
We'll start with Aviation.
Aviation market remained strong in the quarter.
Orders of $5.1 billion were up 14%.
Commercial engine orders of $1.2 billion were up 111% driven by GE90 CFM and Small Commercial and that was partially offset by military engine orders of $600 million being down 36% principally driven by less funding on the joint strike fighter.
The equipment orders price was down 0.4%.
We ended the quarter with a backlog of $20.4 billion up 3% versus last year.
In the quarter service orders of $2.8 billion were up 14% driven by strong spares.
In the quarter our commercial spare parts orders were $25.4 million per day.
That was up 32% and that was partially offset by military services which were down 1%.
Revenue of $4.4 billion was up 5% driven by the equipment up 3% and services up 7%.
Segment profit $841 million was up 5%.
That was driven by the higher volume it's driven by positive pricing and that was partially offset by no repeat of the first quarter '10 service franchise fee with Texoil that generated $74 million last year.
And as we go through the year R&amp;D and launch costs are going to continue to ramp up in the second third and fourth quarter.
On the right side Transportation had a very good quarter.
The market continued to improve.
Domestic rail lines were up 5% parked  locomotives were down 5% from year end.
The orders of $938 million were flat.
But that included one multiyear locomotive order last year for almost $300 million that didn't repeat.
Service orders were very strong in the quarter of $500 million up 25%.
And our equipment backlog closed at $4.1 billion up 40% over last year.
Our revenues of $900 million were up 18% driven by higher volume.
Equipment revenues were up 12%.
We shipped 30% more mining and off-highway vehicle units and locomotive revenues were about flat.
Service revenues were up 23% on the strong parts sales.
And segment profit of $157 million was up 37% reflecting the higher volume in the stronger services.
Next is Healthcare.
Our Healthcare team delivered another quarter of positive growth while they continue to reinvest.
Orders of $4.1 billion were up 9%.
Equipment orders of $2.1 billion were also up 9% driven by Healthcare Solutions up 10%.
We saw a strong growth in Healthcare Solutions.
Just to go around the world a little bit.
Eastern Europe and the Middle East were up 37% China was up 18% India was up 41%.
And then in the developed world Europe was up 2% and the Americas were up 5%.
Service orders in the quarter were up 9% and the equipment backlog of $3.9 billion ended up 6% versus last year.
Revenue of $4.1 billion was up 10%.
It's pretty broad- based.
If you go by product ultrasound was up 21% in the quarter; devices were up 13%; CT was up 13%; MR was up 3%; Life Sciences were up 15%; X-ray was up 6%; and services were up 8%.
And then segment profit of $531 million was up 7% and that was driven by the higher volume it was driven by positive productivity and that was partially offset by negative price and about $50 million of higher investments in new products.
And finally on the right side you can see H&amp;BS we had revenues of just under $2 billion.
They were up 3%.
We had strong revenue growth in intelligent platforms.
Their revenue was up 19% lighting was up 6% and appliances was down 1% in the quarter.
The segment profit in the segment was up 4%.
We continue to see lower pricing and pretty heavy discounting in the appliance market.
Lighting continued to benefit from our prior restructuring.
And for the year we still expect H&amp;BS to be about flat as we ramp up again more new product investments.
So with that let me turn it back to Jeff.
Great Keith.
I thought I would give you a brief update on Japan where I visited two weeks ago.
Our first priority is to support our people through humanitarian efforts and offer technical support to our customers and we're doing all of those things.
We're also providing substantial power generation equipment to help meet the country's needs in 2011 and '12.
Financially as Keith mentioned earlier we experienced about a $50 million negative earnings impact in the first quarter in Healthcare Energy and Capital.
Going forward we see limited supply chain and market impacts for the year.
I'd say it's more or less in balance.
It may impact timing but overall results probably won't be impacted for GE for the year.
Again we're very focused on helping Japan recover and rebound and rebuild and our teams are working diligently to support our customers in Japan.
Now to update the 2011 operating framework.
Industrial is about as planned with Energy as Keith said turning positive in the second half of '11.
We really believe that acquisition integration and we're really encouraged by an increase in gas turbine quote activity.
We think those factors give us good momentum for our Energy business as we get to the second half of '11 and go into 2012.
GE Capital as Keith reviewed is improving rapidly really in every dimension.
And corporate is about as planned.
So for 2011 we really see some very solid operating earnings growth.
CFOA between $12 billion and $13 billion mid-single-digit industrial organic growth.
And I would say after the first quarter we're even more confident in the 2011 operating framework for GE and the outlook going forward.
So just to summarize again some of the high points of the quarter.
I think capital allocation is key for GE.
We've announced our third dividend increase in the last 9 months up 50% in that time period.
The buyback and dividend take priority as we get to the second half of the year.
I think we've executed a good acquisition strategy as we redeployed capital from NBC Universal into the Energy business and we plan to redeem the preferred shares in the fourth quarter.
Very solid GE Capital earnings growth higher margins we're having good asset growth in target segments.
Losses are declining and the balance sheet is safer and stronger.
I think we're in really good shape for accelerating industrial earnings growth.
It's positive in 2011 should accelerate in 2012.
All the precursors are in place good equipment orders backlog growth good service orders and international growing double digits.
And we're investing to build competitive advantage.
R&amp;D is in place.
I think the new products that we're launching are showing up in our increasing order rates.
The global growth of 12% says we're participating in the parts of the world that are experiencing growth and the strategic acquisitions in Energy and Healthcare I think really position those businesses well for the long term.
So that's an update on the quarter.
Trevor let me turn it back to you and we can take some questions.
Thanks Jeff and Keith.
Tom I think we're ready to open the lines for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Thanks.
I was intrigued by the commentary on it definitely sounds like a better outlook for you in gas turbines than what you were thinking as recently as December or January.
Could you give a little bit more color sort of by region what you're seeing? And I think last year you had 96 gas turbine orders globally.
Can you give a sense of given we're now in late April what your view is on gas turbine orders for this year? Well look Julian I'd say that the outlook does feel a little better.
If you remember at the end of the year when we met and talked about what the outlook was going to be we had about 112 113 gas turbines last year in shipment.
We said we'd be down about 10.
Today the team is working on looking at opportunities to maybe be at least flat and put some more in the production schedule if we could to be prepared for the growth that we're seeing some incoming orders activity inquiries and things like that that we're working on.
Obviously the Middle East has been very strong for us and continues to be strong.
We had one order in the quarter out of the orders we had for gas turbines in the U.S.
So I think that that's an activity that has to pick up as we go forward.
And clearly as Jeff said we're really trying to help our customers in Japan.
There's an awful lot of capacity that's out and they're trying to put as much power in place as they can to prepare for the summer and also to deal with the fact that they've got to replace a lot of power.
So I think the team is cautiously optimistic about it but the outlook is good.
We're ramping up the PSI our outlook for production a little bit in the business.
And for 2011 it might be at least flat maybe better and 2012 should be better on top of that.
I think Julian there's a confluence of maybe 5 factors that are going on more or less at the same time.
One is clearly global growth in the emerging markets the second is the need to provide more infrastructure as part of the Japan rebuild.
The third is lower natural gas pricing overall.
The fourth would be wherever the environmental standards end up in the United States.
And then I think the fifth is -- and this will be decided by our customers not by us is where does the long-term capacity get added vis-a-vis cold nuclear gas as people add new blocks of power going forward.
So I think all those things make us a little bit more bullish on the gas turbine market.
Thanks.
And just a quick follow-up the pricing environment I guess it's now -- it's a little bit better in terms of the year-on-year decline on thermal pricing in Q1 versus where you were in Q4.
But we saw one of your global peers today they're joint venturing the boilers business with someone in China.
So how do you see sort of the competitive landscape? Is there much changing for you or you think that as volumes recover pricing will naturally pick up and the order intake in the second half as well? That's been the historic pattern Julian.
I think it's -- Energy tends to be a later cycle recovery item.
And so the pricing you saw last year was really what played out in the first quarter and that's historically been the pattern of I would say price activity.
The good news is...
Law of supply and demand.
I mean I think right now we're still dealing with a place the global capacity was pretty strong and today I think the demand situation has changed.
One of the strengths of our Energy business is the supply chain and our sourcing and things like that.
And I think that we're flexible we're fast and we do a good job on deflation.
Great.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank You.
Our next question comes from the line of Terry Darling [Goldman Sachs].
Just wondering if we could clarify just taking a couple of questions on the Garanti gain was that in your operating framework before and we just didn't know exactly the timing? Is that the right way to frame it? Sure.
Last year when we announced the transaction in November we actually put out a press release that said we were going to have about a $300 million after-tax gain.
And we thought it would close in the first half and then when we knew it was going to close in the first quarter we announced that.
So I think it's been part of what we've had in the framework all along.
We had $300 million after-tax as I said and then that business had about $60 million of earnings a quarter that we won't have anymore as we go forward.
Perfect.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just coming back to the comment on Energy margins I think.
I thought I heard Jeff indicate that that should improve throughout the year.
And then Keith I think I heard you say down in 2Q up in the second half maybe you were talking profit dollars and Jeff was talking percent margins but could you just clarify that? I was talking total company Terry.
And as the margin rates tend to...
The first quarter is the lowest.
First quarter is always the lowest for us total company.
And I think Keith was talking more just Energy.
And I think the direction the gap that we saw in Energy quarter-over-quarter that profile it's driven by factors that will continue through the year.
The renewals pricing the higher investments in programs and global growth and then the dilution from the acquisitions.
That profile is pretty similar as you go through the year for Energy itself.
Okay.
And then just shifting over to Aero I wonder if you'd talk about any update on profile of R&amp;D and implications for margins for Aero overall.
You've got a lot of pieces in the mix there with the aftermarket getting a little better maybe you can just break some of those pieces down and talk about military too? Well the profile for R&amp;D for Aviation R&amp;D plus launch costs has not changed for us for the total year.
We do expect to have that ramp up as we go through the year.
The R&amp;D actually was less in the first quarter year-over-year than last year based on some timing issues.
But through the year we expect to see a ramp-up of the GEnx obviously.
We shipped 13 GEnxs in the quarter.
As you know the 787 should be certified and delivering in the third and fourth quarter.
And the 747 with the GEnx on it is already just about through all of its certification testing.
Engine is done and the plane is still finalizing.
And so those are going to ramp up and R&amp;D is going to ramp up as we ramp up on the TechX and the LeapX.
So I think as you go through the year you're going to see continued reinvestment in Aviation.
But the offset is the strength of services.
We feel pretty good about it.
We were looking for when are you going to see it last year based on utilization improving our revenue passenger miles and freight passenger miles up.
And you can see that in the order rate up 30%.
We feel pretty good about that order rate and the outlook from the team is that that should continue to be strong for us.
And then Keith could you just refresh us on what that year-over-year increase in Aviation R&amp;D is now expected at? For Aviation it's just on R&amp;D itself it's supposed to be up I think about just one second.
For total year.
For the total year it's supposed to grow about 15% to 20% to about $1.7 billion.
Okay.
Great.
And then last...
Somewhere in that range.
Just lastly obviously nice to see that stronger performance at GE Capital.
And Jeff or Keith I wondered if you could comment on the potential that that better performance pulls forward the confidence in the GE Capital dividend back to parent and implications for buyback and additional dividend increases from a timing standpoint? We're obviously feeling pretty good about the progress in GE Capital.
You can see the capital ratios you can see the pretax earnings growth you can see some stabilization in real estate.
So I think all those signs are good.
There are some uncertainties we have as you know.
The Fed will transition to be our regulator in the summer here.
So I think the team feels good about it.
We've made a lot of progress.
We think we're going to be above what the levels are of capital that are required for all the different criteria but that isn't exactly finalized as you know as well.
And then we've got to transition to a new regulator.
So our objective is to as you know at a minimum pay a dividend in 2012 and if we could work on that and earlier than that obviously we would love to do that.
But right now the only thing we have in the plan is that we'll restart the dividend from Capital in '12.
But obviously the progress continues to be pretty strong.
And I think it was also encouraging when we saw what the banks were able to do this year between the dividends and the buyback based on their capital and stress case plan.
So we're going to work on that.
And the only thing I would add to that Terry is look I think the major transactions we had planned on doing we've done.
And so dividend and buyback I think take a higher priority as I look at the rest of the year.
So I think that's the way I would -- that's the perspective we have.
We liked the deals we did.
We think they were opportunistic and strategic and help our Energy business.
But again I think what Keith said we feel really great about where GE Capital is positioned.
And I think priorities in the second half of the year will tend towards dividends and buyback.
We'll look forward to it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Davis with Morgan Stanley.
I want to switch gears and talk a little bit about Healthcare and a couple of things.
I think Keith you said that R&amp;D was up $50 million in the quarter.
Now maybe you meant for the year so some clarification on that? And then maybe you can talk about why R&amp;D has had to come up in this business? I mean my understanding was that there was a bit of a pullback in the arms race if you will that would require less R&amp;D spend with Healthymagination is that -- am I reading things wrong? First let me clarify we did have about $50 million of increased spending year-over-year in new product launches about 30 of that was related to our Home Health joint venture with Intel so that's a new business we've gone into.
And also investments in our Solutions business the consulting business that we're growing and providing a lot of help to hospitals as they manage the need to lower their costs and become more efficient.
So about $30 million of that's there.
And then about $20 million is higher NPI for new products.
We launched about 45 or 50 new products in the quarter.
So we have just really ramped up R&amp;D globally.
Omar Ishrak has got control of the entire business and he's got a terrific model where we have breakthrough technology and then we flow that down through the product line.
And we're trying to make sure we have products at every price point as we participate in these global emerging market growth opportunities.
So I think in some cases a couple of years ago we were behind in MR.
We've caught back up and we've got a great position in CT.
And today I think the team really likes the position we have across the entire product line.
But Scott I would just add to what Keith said to say look we expect this business to have operating profit rate expansion for the year.
Productivity cost our share position is good to improving and I fully expect Healthcare to have operating profit rate expansion in 2Q through 4Q.
I totally agree.
You mean an expansion beyond the 7% you showed this quarter is that what you mean Jeff? Yes I mean...
Absolutely.
I mean I would say double digit plus operating profit growth and expanding margin rates in Healthcare.
Okay.
I totally understand.
Okay I know it's early days of Japan and the tragedy is there but that's a big part -- it's a fairly large Healthcare market overall and I think it's a fairly important part of your overall mix if memory serves me right.
But what do you hear from the local guys? I mean is there going to be money diverted from spending on things like Healthcare for the rebuilding effort does it not change? I mean is there any sense at all of direction or is it just too early? Scott I just think it's too early.
We don't have anything to -- if you go back to the Kobe earthquake right? There was more stimulus put into the overall economy in Japan after that.
But I just think it's too early to tell what the impact is going to be.
Okay.
And last question Keith some of your competitors and GECAS competitors ILC et cetera have taken write-downs in their fleets to reflect a couple of changes.
Obviously new aircraft that's efficient higher oil prices that's kind of up increase the obsolescence of some of the craft.
I mean is the GECAS portfolio as you see right now pretty much mark-to-market? Absolutely.
We basically have to do our appraisals every year and we have to adjust and you see us take impairments when we go through those reviews if we need to based on current views of asset values or specific customer situations.
I did see that there was a write-down on the A320 family for ILC and I think it might interesting to take a look at the differences in how companies depreciate equipment.
Most companies depreciate aircraft in a straight line over 25 years to a 15% residual and we assume a 20-year life to 90% of our average appraised value which results in an annual depreciation percent that's higher than what a lot of competitors have.
So we feel pretty good about our values and we did look at what they did and we absolutely feel good about where we are at GECAS.
Okay very helpful thanks guys.
Thanks Scott.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Could you just talk a little bit more about the outlook for gas turbines in the U.S.? So you're talking about only having one order there and a lot of the activity's in the Middle East.
When you talk about it the actual quotation activity could you maybe give us some parameters around -- I know quotation activity is a high-level comment.
But is there any way to tell us what kind of the magnitude is in the activity globally? So is it 50-50 U.S.? I'm just curious as to the plans of your customers in the U.S.
what you're seeing there? No I don't have any specific numbers on quote activity in the U.S.
Steve.
I mean I think what we're basically looking at is the dynamics have really changed subsequent to the disaster and tragedy in Japan.
You see people canceling their plans to continue development of new nuclear plants.
Clearly coal has issues from an environmental perspective and it's challenging from a cost and technology perspective to be competitive.
We've put a lot of renewable energy into the system especially in the U.S.
but globally and with gas prices where they are that's a challenge to make that as economic as it needs to be for its financing.
And so you come back to what's going to be the power of choice it's going to be gas.
And we think we're well-positioned there.
We still have reserve margins here in this country but as you look at retirements and replacement and then new economic growth we think the outlook is going to be pretty good.
I don't have a specific order quoting numbers and I don't know even if I had them whether I'd tell you what they were.
Right I guess not specifics but just in general is it -- are you -- it sounds like you are seeing a pretty nice uptick in dialogue with the U.S.
customers I guess that's more of the question at a high level? Yes I think that's right.
The other thing I would say Steve is I think we could see a nice increase in gas turbine demand even with the U.S.
demand not being anywhere close to 50% of it really.
Totally you look at Russia you look at...
You just have a lot of other stuff going on.
Iraq Phase 2 Russia as Keith said.
There's more interest in China today in gas turbines.
Saudi Arabia needs power.
So it's all that kind of activity that we're seeing as well.
Okay.
And then one other question this is just in the news the other day the only reason why I'm asking.
But the Board reset the comp package I guess talking about operating cash flow at a minimum of $55 billion over a 4-year period.
And then I think there was something about outperforming the S&amp;P 500 as well.
I'm just curious as to the message that you want us to take away from that.
Because the operating cash flow number I think over a 4-year period is only really up modestly from where we are today.
And then outperforming the S&amp;P 500 is that the way we should think about GE stock as kind of a comp  versus the S&amp;P 500 as opposed to more of the industrial peers like the other guys in our sector? I'm just kind of curious as to the message or at least the message that you would like to kind of have us take away from that change? Steve I think what we did is we reverted back to kind of the formula we've had in place since 2003 which really set two benchmarks.
One was an S&amp;P performance and the other one was a CFOA growth target.
So look I believe in performance shares.
I think it's a good way for CEOs to be compensated and that's really what it says.
I think we'll continue to give you a framework that can spell out what we think we can do but we want the company to outperform.
Those were the same targets that we have...
Those were the same targets that we had in place...
All we did was took out the 2010 cash flow.
Right.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Feldman with UBS.
You've addressed several of the issues related to Japan including commercial real estate.
And I've seen the release related to the channeling law.
But has there been any indication that there could be any potential liability related to the disaster in Japan? And is there anything else at finance that we should think about maybe Shinsei losses creeping up over time or anything else? Jason I think on the channeling law it's really clear and been written about by a lot of different people.
And so I just I think all of the things we've said in the past still hold true today and we haven't seen any indications that anything that would counter that and mainly because I think it is so clear.
On the other exposures as you said we had -- we put a little bit up for property damage in Japan $15 million and then some reserves $15 million in the CLL business.
But other than that we really haven't seen any direct impact.
We've got real estate we've got commercial loans  and leases we've got Aviation there  and we did a pretty good review of our portfolio with the teams.
On Shinsei on the Grey Zone we have seen elevated claims as part of the Takefuji bankruptcy as everybody knows.
Those claims really started to decline after the bankruptcy period closed and they've continued to decline in April.
And right now the trend on claims looks pretty good.
However we're going to have to see how they normalize in Q2 and Q3.
But it's obviously hard to determine what are some of the events that drove some of those claim declines in this period given some of the challenges in Japan.
But right now the trend looks pretty good.
Okay.
And also you've spent a fair amount of time talking about better opportunities for gas turbines given new EPA regulations Fukushima and everything else has there been any change in sentiment since the EPA regulations came out since the Fukushima disaster related to renewables? And potentially also whether you have some new opportunities perhaps for the offshore wind turbine launch particularly in Europe? Well positive.
I think we're investing a lot in wind obviously.
We're shipping a lot of 2.5-megawatt units which are a good value proposition.
We're doing a lot globally.
So we're investing a lot in wind and we think the business has a future.
I think right now we're dealing with just the decline in the U.S.
market and the change in margins that we had in that market.
But overall we're very committed to it and I think you must have seen recently our investments in solar.
The announcement that we're going to build a very large solar plant here and have the highest efficiency in the marketplace for thin film solar.
So renewables is a big part of the business.
I think it's going to be a part of our portfolio we're investing a lot in it and we're just kind of weathering this decline in the shipment of the very profitable U.S.
backlog and then the replacement of that in the wind business.
Great thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Cornell with Barclays Capital.
Actually GE Capital had a great quarter but maybe you could just take a minute and go through the reserve walk.
I mean you went by that pretty quickly in the summary.
It looks like you say the write-offs I think greater than the new provisions.
And that's a big reason why reserves came down I wonder.
But maybe just give us a view over the balance of the year Keith and what we should expect there.
Other than [ph] x Garanti the numbers are good.
Should we expect sequential earnings growth out of GE Capital? Well just first on the reserves I think the profile we'll continue where you see write-offs higher than the new credit costs provisions.
If you look at the percent of the new credit cost provision it's somewhere around 1.45%.
That goes back to what I would call more normal historical levels Bob.
So I think that probably is a good indicator of what we could expect going forward as long as this portfolio continues to demonstrate improvements in delinquency and non-earning.
So I think that dynamic will continue.
If you look at provisions new provisions for losses it's somewhere around that level.
The other dynamic that you have is the impairments coming down and that's going to depend upon how we see the market for the real estate equity book.
And as I said we've seen some positive indicators there.
And year-over-year it's obviously down quite a bit.
So I think the outlook is pretty good for improvements and profitability driven by lower credit losses.
You see it in the fourth quarter you see it in the first quarter and I don't see any reason why that wouldn't continue.
For the total year how do we feel about it? Obviously if you look at GE Capital's results they're better.
You take out Garanti and even if you normalize for not having Garanti's earnings going forward you're going to see a terrific performance out of GE Capital this year.
As Jeff said we feel very confident about our framework.
I mean is there any seasonality in that business? I mean I don't recall I mean obviously you had these tremendous ups and downs the last couple of years but in a normal year what kind of seasonality would be? Is the first quarter typically the low point of the year? I mean what can we expect such of in a trend rate over the course of the year? We used to have a big bump in the third quarter but I think we've really normalized and are pretty level.
I can't think of one thing that's really popped out as a seasonality item today in GE Capital.
And second question from me.
When I was trying to ask a question earlier when I was on mute about the joint strike fighter engine.
I mean you're going to continue to work on that engine for a while.
But what is sort of the GE view of that engine? And might you continue funding the development of that engine? I understand it's nearly complete what's the outlook there? Look Bob I think the engine is 85% complete.
We're going to keep a small team in place to continue to work on development and see where we go in the 2012 budget cycle.
Our basic pieces remains the same which is this saves $20 billion over the life of the program.
It's enjoyed bipartisan support for a lot of years.
It's a program that's been over budget and this is one of the ways to get competition back in the game.
Our engine actually has been the model engine in the whole joint strike fighter program which is over budget not our engine.
So it's really...
So we're going to keep the team together.
Okay.
Thanks you guys.
Great.
Thank you Bob.
Your next question comes from the line of Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
So on E&amp;I we're getting kind of close to the target here.
I mean what's the plan if you get there pretty soon? I mean do we start to ramp up on CLL or do we shrink the business further? Where do you go from there? We feel pretty good about the progress here but we have a plan to continue to run-off the red assets and grow the green assets.
And you can see the run-off of the red assets is happening faster than we thought.
We've had more success with dispositions.
I think that's been very positive and maybe given us a little more room for growth on the CLL side even earlier than we thought.
And our investments in the green assets the growth in CLL volume the growth in the consumer volume have been very strong.
So we're not planning on going below the 440 ENI [Ending Net Investment] target for 2012.
We plan on getting there in an orderly way and I don't see any change to it.
Okay.
And on the Commercial Real Estate piece I mean in the last couple of quarters you have been able to sell a decent amount of properties at kind of a small gain.
Could we see some of the opposite of maybe some opportunistic sales of other pieces at losses? Or how do you think about winding that down and opportunities now that things have stabilized? It depends on the economics really.
If we believe we've got value on the property we're going to do what we need to get the most attractive value.
And I think our headset on that has proven out over and through this cycle.
I would not anticipate large sales at significant losses in the Real Estate business.
We believe in our properties and our values we feel like we're going to be able to recover them on the equity side and that's coming through.
We're also reducing our basis obviously with depreciation and write-offs.
And we feel pretty good about the outlook.
So we'll be opportunistic but I don't see big sales at significant losses.
Okay.
Just last one I don't know if I missed it but tax rates by the pieces for the rest of the year? Well we haven't really given much of a forecast there.
I'd say if you look at the rates in the first quarter the GE rate x GECS was 22% x the NBCU gain.
I wouldn't expect the rate to be higher than that for the year.
There are some -- as we go through the year other opportunities the teams are working on that may bring that down slightly but we'll be around the 20% I would say for the year would be the estimate today.
And on the GE Capital rate at 18% in the quarter.
I think you're going to be in the mid-teens for GE Capital as you go forward.
I mean we had a pretty high tax on the Garanti gain.
And other than that the entire profile of GE Capital was a normal rate on the pretax earnings and our benefits our structural benefits were a little under $400 million which is probably the run rate for the year today.
Okay Great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I'll keep it to one.
You've covered a lot of ground.
China give us a sense if you could for what you're seeing the impact you've given some of the macro Energy complex decelerating what you're experiencing there and maybe overview? Thanks.
The overall revenues were up 12% in the quarter.
What I would say Steve is that the Healthcare business saw a pretty normal quarter with growth close to 20% I think it was like 18% something like that.
A little higher.
A little higher.
Aviation's got an outstanding backlog.
And that I think is pretty secure.
We won a lot of business last year which will play through.
And like I said earlier the 12th Five-Year Plan  really emphasizes environmental investing.
So I think we're going to see some good opportunities in our Energy business as we go through next year as well.
So top line I think was 12% revenue growth and we don't see anything that seems to suggest it should be less than that as we go through the year.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
Good.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of John Inch with Bank of America.
Just as a quick clarification there wasn't a restructuring offset to the Garanti banking was there? Not in GE Capital no.
The only restructuring was on the page I covered on other items in the corporate side.
A little bit of that was in Capital but we covered it on that page.
Yes okay.
I just wanted to make sure there was nothing else.
The upcoming -- so my question is the upcoming stress test with the Fed is there -- I mean how are you guys thinking about your real estate book? I mean I'm just sort of trying to think if -- what could be a land mine is the fact that you sell these embedded losses in your real estate book that's not really accounted for the same way as say the banks do.
Could that be some sort of a source of pressure that they would say "Look just write this down" and kind of all systems go type of things? Or how do you think we should think about it? I don't think so.
I think you should think that we have been doing stress tests a couple of times a year.
We do have regulators we're regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision in the FDIC.
And we do do stress tests 2 times a year and we do have to basically think through and be comparable to what the banks go through with their formal SCAP tests.
So I would say that we've been through it a couple of cycles now and we feel pretty good about the process we use and the stress that we put our portfolio through to make sure that we have enough capital and enough liquidity.
But the only difference is that obviously as you say it's a new regulator.
But we've got a lot of input.
We're dealing with a lot of third parties who are obviously industry experts.
We've hired people from the industry to help us with this who are on our team directly who are industry and regulatory experts.
And I don't think that that's something different that could be dramatic as we go forward here.
Right.
Thanks Keith.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Just one on the gas turbine side just switching over to wind quickly.
Any thoughts on what you're seeing in market share-wise there taking advantage of the downturn I know you weren't afraid to use price and then thoughts on an eventual recovery shaping up there? Well I think as the AWEA data came out in January I believe we had about 50% market share in the U.S.
and then smaller in Europe and the rest of the world.
I'd say in the first quarter a lot of our deals were in places like Brazil Canada things like that.
What I've always thought Chris is that we really do have the lowest cost and the highest reliability in the industry.
And I include in there the Chinese competitors.
So we have -- it gives us a lot of strategic flexibility when we look at the space and so even as the market goes through cycles I think we approach it from a position of strength.
I don't think we have anything in mind today.
But if you just look at the landscape -- and we've always had a philosophy of having broad fuel capability so that we don't have to -- we're in nuclear we're in coal we're in gas we're in wind we're in solar we're in a lot of different things.
I like our position in gas turbines and wind turbines and I think it's going to play out over the next 3 to 5 years that those too will have a good future.
I think the one thing you see happening in our Wind business is we're becoming better globally.
We had such a terrific position in the U.S.
market.
But today with the market where it is in the U.S.
we are really competing effectively globally and that's going to make us a better business.
And the second thing obviously is the offshore wind business which is going to grow and we're investing and we should have a significant position there as well.
So as we said earlier we like our position in wind and we like the outlook for the business.
It's just we're working our way through this backlog that was pretty lucrative but the margins on the new orders are lower.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
And your next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe with Deutsche Bank.
Trevor we're over an hour here so I'll keep this really quick.
Jeff I thought the timing of the dividend announcement was interesting.
And I just wanted to know what is the message you want to convey with that dividend increase? And then secondarily are we into an era of opportunistic dividend increases or is your intention to go back to sort of an annual December announcement? Nigel look I think what we want to convey is just confidence in the company first and foremost and the fact that for a broad base of investors the dividend is important.
And we think that's a good message to send today.
Good confidence in the company the fact that we've I think really effectively redeployed the capital from NBCU the focus is really on dividend and buyback now.
And just the broad importance of the dividend.
I think where we're going to is going to be -- we want the dividend to be an effective payout ratio a good yield very reliable.
And so over time we're going to get back to an annual dividend increase that we do that investors can count on and we'll just see how that plays out.
But I think overarching Nigel I want it to be confidence in the company.
Great thanks.
Our final question comes from the line of Deane Dray with Citi.
Just to stay on the topic of capital allocation we got the message focus on dividends and buybacks acquisitions basically done for 2011 how about divestitures? I know I've asked this before and Jeff you said this is the best portfolio you've had since you've been CEO.
But are there opportunities for further portfolio reshaping? Deane I just don't see it right now.
Again I think what we're -- what we want to do is run the portfolio the capital and thus the infrastructure capital portfolio we have get very well -- execute well in '11 good position for simultaneous industrial and financial service growth in '12 in that portfolio generate a lot of cash and have a lot of optionality around what we do from a capital allocation standpoint.
So I just -- I think we're going to generate a lot of good cash flow this year.
I think a lot of people have asked about the capital dividend.
Our expectation is that capital restores its dividend at some point and that provides additional cash over time.
And so I just want to -- we want to execute this play with excellence and our investors will benefit from that.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
Just a couple of housekeeping items and some announcements here.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon.
We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental schedule for GE Capital also later today.
And here's a couple of announcements.
Next week on Wednesday April 27 is our 2011 Annual Shareholders Meeting in Salt Lake City.
We hope to see you there.
On May 18 Jeff will be presenting at the annual EPG conference.
So that will be the next big presentation.
Our second quarter 2011 earnings webcast will also be held on July 22 for your calendars.
And then finally we will be hosting a GE Energy meeting with special emphasis on Oil &amp; Gas later this year on September 20 in the afternoon.
We'll provide you more details regarding the meeting logistics at second quarter earnings but we do expect to hold this meeting in the New York area.
And as always Joanne and I will be available to take your calls and questions today.
Thank you everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] My name is Chanel and I'll be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanel.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We're pleased to host today's second quarter 2011 earnings webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued a press release early this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast.
Slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
Now I'd like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great Trevor.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Just to start off the company had another strong quarter.
Leading indicators are positive with infrastructure orders up 24%.
I think that's a really good sign.
Strength was broad based with expansion in many of our end-use markets.
Our global growth was especially strong.
There remain a few sources of volatility but they are well known.
It's housing in the U.S.
and the impact on appliances the U.S.
wind market and a slow European economy.
Earnings growth continues to rebound with operating EPS of 17%.
Growth was pretty broad based including Aviation Healthcare Transportation Oil &amp; Gas and Capital.
In fact Capital continues to be very strong.
Our earnings were up substantially.
The only drag was Energy which should improve in the second half of '11.
Our balance sheet was very strong with $91 billion of cash and a Tier 1 common ratio of 10.4%.
Lastly we continue to make progress on our capital allocation plan with a big step in the third quarter as we retire the Berkshire preferred.
In addition we will likely close the Converteam acquisition in the quarter.
So we're executing well and we feel good about the quarter.
Orders were a real highlight.
They were very strong a big highlight growing 24% with real strength in every segment.
This actually comes off a good quarter in second quarter of '10 when orders also grew by 8%.
Organic orders growth was 17% and Energy orders were particularly strong.
We had some big wins: Renova in Brazil Wheatstone in Australia and others.
We recorded $27 billion of commitments at the Paris Air Show most of which will turn into orders in subsequent periods.
Our Healthcare orders in growth regions expanded by more than 20%.
Transportation had outstanding global wins in mining and we ended the quarter with a record high backlog of $189 billion.
Now we've made investments and growth over the past couple of years and they are paying off.
We're seeing a great response to John Rice's leadership of our global growth organization.
Global orders grew by 23% with growth markets up 21%.
Every business had double-digit growth.
Highlights included China up 32%; India up 91%; Australia up 35%; Latin America up 45%; Russia up 23%; Africa plus 35%; and Asia up 22%.
So global markets industrially remain a source of strength for GE.
Services remain strong with revenue growth up 14% and we're seeing good growth across all the businesses and CSA backlog is in an all-time high at $139 billion.
New product launches are working.
The LEAP-X is now a great success with the Boeing 737 re-engine partnership an important strategic step.
We're seeing broad customer interest in the new gas turbine Flex 50 which offers both record-high efficiency and grid flexibility.
Our 1.6-megawatt wind turbine is gaining share in North America.
And we have a broad array of product launches in Healthcare.
And between now and year-end '12 we'll have a major launch in every appliance product.
So based on this we think our organic growth rate should accelerate in 2011 and 2012.
Cash remains on track.
We remain on track to generate $12 billion to $13 billion of CFOA for the year.
Working capital has grown by about $2 billion year-to-date to support our second half '11 equipment backlog.
This will reduce by at least $1 billion as we end the year.
As I said earlier we ended the quarter with a record $91 billion of cash and as I mentioned earlier we plan to retire the Berkshire preferred shares by the end of the third quarter.
We remain committed to attractive dividend growth and reducing our share count over time.
Now margins declined in the quarter.
The decline was primarily in Energy and really driven by significantly lower margins in the wind market.
Also contributing to lower margins were heavier R&amp;D spending and acquisitions.
We expect margins to improve in the second half of 2011.
And going forward we'll been managing through several factors.
Our wind margins have declined substantially between 2010 and 2011 but will stabilize.
We expect deflation and lower material costs to continue throughout 2011.
We expect R&amp;D investments as a percentage of revenue to be flat to lower in 2012 versus 2011.
Service margin growth will continue.
Acquisition integration is trending ahead of plan.
And Energy equipment orders and pricing should improve by the end of next year.
So if I compare where we are today versus our December framework for 2011 we expect industrial revenue to be higher we expect margins to be slightly lower and our expectation with industrial profit growth in 2011 is unchanged.
Finally we expect margins to expand in 2012 versus 2011.
So with that let me turn over to Keith who's going to give us an update on financial performance.
Jeff thanks a lot.
I'm going to start with the second quarter summary.
We had continuing operations revenue of $35.6 billion which was down 4%.
But as you can see from the notes on the bottom of the page we were impacted by not having any consolidation of the NBC revenues.
Excluding the impact of NBC GE revenues were up 7%.
Industrial sales of $23 billion were down 6%.
Obviously that was also impacted by NBC.
And I think the best way to think about the Industrial revenue is to look over on the right side in the segment revenues.
Industrial segment revenues were $23 billion were up 10% and that doesn't have any impact from the sale of NBC.
Financial Service revenues were $12.4 billion were down 1% bringing earnings of $3.7 billion were up 18%.
And we delivered $0.34 a share of operating EPS up 17%.
Jeff covered the cash flow of $4.4 billion.
That was also impacted by NBC but we're on track for our total year outlook.
For tax rates the tax rates in the second quarter were in line with the framework that we outlined in the first quarter.
The second quarter year-to-date rate you could see was 41% driven by the NBCU gain in the first quarter.
If you look at the second quarter the GE rate of 21% was consistent with our expectations that we laid out in that first quarter call.
We continue to expect the GE tax rate for 2011 excluding the NBCU gain generally consistent with the second quarter rate.
For GE Capital the tax rate of 18% for the second quarter was consistent with the expectation of a high teens rate for the year up from 2010 as pretax continues to improve in financial services.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Industrial revenues were up 10%.
Segment profit was down 3% driven by Energy.
I'm going to cover the details of each of these businesses in a few pages.
And for GE Capital segment profit doubled in the quarter leading to the overall segment profit up 18%.
Before I get to the businesses I'll just start with the other items page.
On the positive side we resolved some commercial items and we had a $0.01 after-tax benefit and we recorded that at corporate.
Offsetting that we also had $0.01 after tax of restructuring and other charges mostly related to the energy acquisitions so legal and deal fees and other nonrepeat items from purchase accounting were also recorded at corporate.
We also had 2 transactions recorded in discontinued operations in the quarter.
We closed the exit of our Singapore consumer book in April that resulted in a $300 million gain and that was partially offset by $100 million loss on the disposition of our Australia New Zealand mortgage book.
The net was a $0.02 after-tax benefit in discontinued operations and a $7 billion overall of reduction in investment.
So overall not much activity in continuing ops in Q2 and other items.
I'm going to start on the businesses with GE Capital.
The good news here is GE Capital continues to improve.
We've gone from having many pages over the last several quarters to cover GE Capital down to one page today.
The additional information is all in the supplemental charts that we posted this morning so we just try to consolidate this.
But all the data that we've been giving is in the supplements.
For the quarter revenue of $11.6 billion was down 1% and that's in line with our ending net investment gain down 2%.
You could see the pretax earnings were up 3x over the last year.
Net income of $1.655 billion was up 2x over last year.
That's driven by lower credit costs lower impairments partially offset by the lower assets.
You could see our Tier 1 common ratio went up by 10.4% and our leverage was down a full point year-over-year.
On the right side our asset quality metrics continued to improve.
30-day delinquencies were down everywhere except mortgage.
That's up slightly mostly because of the declining asset base.
Total mortgages were down $6 billion x the impact of foreign exchange from the beginning of the year so we continue to run off that book.
Down on the bottom right in terms of dynamics we had a very strong volume quarter.
Margins were strong at 5.3%.
Our non-earnings and losses were better.
Reserve coverage remained strong.
And I'll just cover a couple of highlights for the businesses on the left side.
First is Consumer.
Our Consumer business had another very strong quarter.
We ended Q2 with $146 billion of assets that was up 3%.
Net income of a little over $1 billion was up 57% driven by lower credit losses.
The U.S.
Retail Finance business had a great quarter.
They earned $588 million up 51%.
That's driven by lower loss provisions as our delinquencies improved by over 100 basis points.
And the Retail business in the U.S.
had a good volume quarter.
The volume was up 8%.
Global banking earned $310 million up 17%.
That was driven by lower credit losses partially offset by the loss of the Garanti income in Turkey.
In U.K.
Home Lending earned over $44 million in the quarter.
It's the seventh consecutive quarter of positive earnings.
Our U.K.
Home Lending assets declined $1.7 billion year-over-year and we realized 115% again on the mortgages that we liquidated in the second quarter above the marks that we'd taken on valuation.
For Commercial Real Estate we're still facing losses but we are seeing signs of stabilization.
We lost $335 million in the quarter but that was $190 million better than last year and $23 million better than Q1.
In Q2 we had $92 million of credit losses and $339 million of marks and impairments.
And during the quarter we sold 129 properties for $1.6 billion with $26 million in gains.
Our assets are down 17% year-over-year excluding the impact of the weak dollar and they're down 5% from the first quarter.
We are seeing signs of increased liquidity.
If you look at the sales of quality properties we're seeing stabilizing rents.
And occupancy on average in the portfolio is up.
Our unrealized loss at the end of the year was $5.1 billion.
It's down to $4.1 billion at the end of the second quarter.
So slight improvements but we're all still focused on returning this business to profitability.
Commercial Lending and Leasing also had another strong quarter.
Earnings of $701 million they were up 124% from last year.
Those results were also driven by lower losses and impairments.
CLL had a good volume quarter.
They did $10.8 billion of volume it was up 33%.
Americas net income was up $260 million and Europe's net income was up $40 million.
GECAS had another strong quarter.
Earnings of $321 million up 11%.
The team funded $1.9 billion of volume with strong margins.
And we ended the quarter with 2 aircraft on the ground both in the process of being redeployed.
Energy Financial Services also had a good quarter.
Earnings of $139 million up 10% driven by lower marks and credit costs.
So overall in GE Capital a very strong quarter.
Next is Energy.
Energy had a mixed set of results in the second quarter.
Second quarter is going to be toughest quarter we see in Energy and I'm going to show you more details about that on the next page but first I'll go through the 2 businesses.
For Q2 on the positive side we're seeing great orders growth.
Orders of $9.9 billion in Energy were up 24% 16% x acquisitions.
Equipment orders of $5 billion [ph] were up 42% and 29% x acquisitions.
Main drivers were wind and aero derivatives.
We had orders for 667 wind turbines versus 248 in Q2 of '10.
We had orders for 41 aero derivative units versus 16 units last year.
Partial offset was thermal.
We had orders for 41 gas turbines versus 42 last year but last year included the large Iraq deal.
We had 25 9Es in one quarter in one order.
Overall orders price for Energy was down 2.5% that was driven by wind order pricing down 7% and thermal order pricing down 10% in the second quarter.
Service orders of $4.9 billion were up 10% and revenues of $8.1 billion were up 1%.
That's driven by the acquisitions partially offsetting all the lower volume.
Thermal revenues of $2.0 billion were down 12% and that was principally driven by 5 fewer steam turbines.
And wind revenues of $630 million were down 46% in the quarter.
We shipped 269 wind units in the quarter versus 511 last year.
Service revenues of $4.4 billion were up 8% x the acquisitions driven by Power Gen Services up 7%.
And segment profit of $1.3 billion it's down 24% and it's driven by the lower wind volume and the lower wind pricings.
It explains almost all the variants.
Next is Oil &amp; Gas.
This business is experiencing tremendous growth.
We're getting growth organically.
We're getting growth from our recent acquisitions and we had a little bit of a benefit from the weaker dollar in the revenue line.
Orders of $2.9 billion were up 45%.
19 points of that growth came from the deals Wellstream and Wood Group and we also had 9 points of translation from FX so 17% order growth organically for the Oil &amp; Gas business.
Equipment orders of $1.8 billion were up 41%.
We had strong growth in Turbomachinery from a large LNG order in Australia.
Service orders of $1.1 billion were up 52% driven by upgrades in places like Cutter in Canada.
And total Oil &amp; Gas orders price was positive.
It was up 2.1% in the quarter.
Revenues of $2.5 billion were up 39% and there's a similar impact from exchange and deals as there was with orders so you end up with about 10% organic revenue growth.
Segment profit $333 million.
It was up 14%.
We had benefits from the higher volume we had benefits from the acquisitions and we had benefits as we had material deflation in the business that was partially offset by lower pricing and some negative impact of the foreign exchange.
As I said this is the toughest quarter of the year for Energy Infrastructure.
And as we also said at EPG we're going to be growing in the second half in Energy.
So let's go to the next page and look at the framework for the first half second half for Energy.
I think it's important to look at the Energy results in more detail to see the dynamics of what's been a drag in the first half of the year and how we see the improvements coming in the second half.
So what we put here the top half of this chart shows the Energy Infrastructure op profits.
It compares the first and second halves of 2010 and 2011.
And on the left side you can see an op profit of $2.9 billion it was down 14% in the first half.
On the right side you can see we expect the op profit to be higher in the second half versus last year's second half.
So we're going to get growth in the second half and the main driver for this performance is going to be volume.
And what we did we put the unit numbers for GE energy alone on the box on the bottom of the page so if you look at the left side you can see the volume declines that this business has had to deal with in the first half of the year.
Wind turbines were down 26% gas turbines were down 11% steam turbines were down 59% and aero was down 14%.
And on the right side you can see how dramatically those dynamics change in the second half.
Wind turbines will be up 16% gas turbines will be up 33% steam turbines will be up 80% and aero will be up 23%.
So overall this volume is going to be up a little more than 17% in the second half and 90% of the equipment that we're showing here is already in firm orders in the backlog.
So what does this mean for margins? Jeff showed you the pressure we had in the first half.
If you look at the top on the left side in the middle you can see the first half margins were down 3.8 points.
That was driven by the wind volume and the pricing that I mentioned.
And on the right side with all this additional volume we expect margins to be better than the first half but still lower than last year's second half when we were up over 20%.
So to wrap this up we had a tough first half in Energy.
The second quarter is the low point for the business.
And with the strong volume profile that we've got and the benefit of the acquisitions we expect to resume growth in the second half and beyond.
Let me move on next to Aviation.
The Aviation market remains strong in the quarter.
Orders of $5.3 billion were up 37%.
Our commercial engine orders of $1.6 billion were up 78%.
That was driven by GE 90 and CFM.
Military engine orders of $389 million were up 87%.
And Jeff mentioned the success the team had with $27 billion of wins at the Paris Air Show.
None of those announced wins are in these orders.
Those wins will turn into orders when we get purchase orders from the airframers usually 12 to 24 months before delivery.
So this industry has got a very strong equipment outlook.
Equipment orders price was up 1.6% and we ended the quarter with a backlog of $20.9 billion up 9% versus last year.
Service orders of $ 2.7 billion were up 14% driven by strong spares.
The commercial spare parts orders were $23.9 million per day which was up 18% and that was partially offset by military services which were down 10%.
We had revenue of $4.7 billion it's up 11% driven by equipment up 2% and services very strong up 21%.
We only shipped 4 GEnx engines in the quarter and that volume will ramp up in the second half as both the 787 and the 747 will be certified before the end of the year.
And segment profit of $959 million was up 9% driven by volume and services partially offset by higher investments in R&amp;D and engine programs.
On the right side is Transportation.
Transportation business had another strong quarter in Q2.
Orders of $1.4 billion were up 19%.
Equipment orders of $835 million were up 5%.
Service orders of $534 million were up 50% and the equipment backlog closed at $ 4.2 billion up 26% over last year.
Revenues of $1.2 billion were up 74% driven by a higher volume.
We shipped 40% more locomotives to our U.S.
customers and almost 5x more international locomotives driving those equipment revenues up 72%.
Service revenues were up 76% on strong part sales and higher customized service agreement revenue.
So segment profit here was also very strong $178 million up 7x over last year driven by that higher volume and the continued improvement we see in services.
Flip to the next page it's Healthcare.
The Healthcare team delivered another quarter of positive growth with continued reinvestment.
Orders of $4.7 billion were up 9%.
Equipment orders at $2.6 billion [ph] were also up 9% with DI up 6% and Clinical Systems up 14%.
The U.S.
equipment was up 7% and non-U.S.
was up 10%.
Some of the growth globally.
China was up 25% India was up 15% Latin America was up 34% and the pressure point was Europe.
Europe was down 3% but down 14% x the impact of the weak U.S.
dollar.
So that gave us some pressure in the quarter.
Service orders were up 10% and total orders price was down 1.3% for the business.
We ended the quarter with equipment backlog of $4 billion up 8% over last year's amount.
Revenue of $4.5 billion was up 10%.
It was driven by both equipment and service both about that level.
And just by product line it's pretty broad based.
Ultrasound was up 12% clinical devices were up 20% CT was up 11% MR was up 7% Life Sciences were up 7% x-ray was flat and services were up 9%.
So segment profit of $711 million was up 8% driven by higher volume and productivity partially offset by the negative price and $44 million of higher investments in new products.
And on the right side Home &amp; Business solutions had a challenging quarter.
Revenues of $2.2 billion were down 4% and segment profit was down 26%.
In Intelligent Platforms revenue was up 19%.
They had a good quarter.
Lighting revenue was up 7% and appliances were down 12%.
So overall here the results in this segment were driven by appliances.
The domestic market in the quarter was down 10% in units.
We also saw material inflation and some of the tough comparisons versus last year were driven by the non-repeat of the government incentive programs we had last year in the first half.
There were incentives to replace more -- replace their appliances with more energy-efficient products.
And we're also continuing to do a lot of investment here in the new product line.
New product programs were up $20 million in the quarter.
So with that that's a run through of the business.
Let me turn it back to Jeff.
Great Keith.
Thanks.
Going back to the 2011 operating framework the framework remains intact and highly achievable.
We expect to see positive earnings growth in our Industrial businesses.
Revenue growth in the second half should be very strong.
As Keith said earlier Energy Infrastructure earnings will grow in the second half.
And Capital earnings will continue to grow with higher margins lower losses and real estate firming.
Our expectations for corporate for the year are unchanged.
So we're going to see solid double-digit operating earnings growth for the year and we're confident in our total year framework for both earnings and CFOA.
So again we feel great about the 2011 operating framework.
We think it's highly achievable.
And lastly just the earnings growth outlook.
As we think about the remainder of this year and into the future in 2012 I think the outlook remains very strong.
I reviewed this with you at EPG.
We see momentum building for 2012.
We see the key factors around GE Capital continuing to improve.
Our balance sheet strength and liquidity remain high.
On the Industrial side Healthcare and Transportation earnings should continue to grow.
And I think we should have solid growth in Aviation and Energy next year.
I think there are couple of ways to reflect -- the American order in Aviation really signals the return to equipment purchases of the U.S.
airlines.
And I think that's very significant.
And I point out the energy orders of almost 40% in the quarter that's largely with the U.S.
still not participating.
And so I actually think we're at the beginning of a very positive Energy and Aviation cycle and when I look at how our businesses are positioned.
And we also have a full year of acquisition impact in Energy.
Our margin should improve in 2012.
So in 2012 we should have both solid organic growth and expanding margins.
And finally we'll retire the preferred shares which will provide an EPS lift for 2012.
So look we like our portfolio we like the GE outlook.
And Trevor with that I'll turn it back to you.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks Keith.
Chanel I think we're ready to open up the lines and head over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Deane Dray with Citi Investments Research.
I would love to hear some color around the assertion on the renewables that if we could be reaching the bottom both on the demand as well as pricing just what sort of indication support [ph] activity et cetera? Well I'll start and then I'll let Jeff follow.
Deane basically if you look we're working our way through that last wave of the very profitable U.S.
bubble that we had and you can see the margins and the pricing was really brutal in the quarter.
On the other hand you're starting to see a lot of order activity.
And you see the orders from the second quarter and the V we had and we're seeing a lot of global activity.
They're at lower margins than that previous U.S.
high-priced backlog but the volume is going to be pretty good.
And the last thing I'd say is that there's a program in place where the government obviously gives some benefits to wind installations it's the production tax credits that are in place through 2012.
I think the wind farms would have to be installed and operating before the end of the year.
And I think that depending upon how people view the probability of that being agreed to and extended in the future you may see some pull in the wind business to put those units in place before the end of '12 here in the U.S.
So I think we're starting to have discussions with customers about some of that activity.
So I think you're still going to face margin pressure in the second half from wind but I think you've seen this quarter is as I said the worst of it.
And with that Jeff I don't know if you have anything to say on the wind market.
I think it's highly likely that we get a lot more volume in the U.S.
over the next 18 months.
We've got the 1.6 megawatt which is the highest performing unit.
So we're going to gain market share probably in that activity.
And then Deane what I would say in Canada Australia bunch of other places in the world the wind wave if you will is just taking off.
So I think from the unit standpoint and from a pricing standpoint we're going to see a little bit better performance.
The business has gone from extremely high margins over 20% and it will be down between high single digits to low teens in this period.
So it's been under -- it's been a tremendous performer for us.
It's had an incredible amount of economic results that's generated for us.
But it's going through a period here where it's resetting and as I said I think the second quarter is the bottom of that but there'll still be additional pressure as we go through the second half of this year.
In fact we've taken that into account when you look at the forecast we gave you on that page on first half second half Deane.
And then can I get some additional color on the Aviation side.
And you touched on this in the remarks important win from the American order decision Boeing on re-engining.
And just if you can comment on some of the activity and orders coming out of the Paris Air Show.
I did hear some grumblings of that there might have been some discounting on the service contracts but if you take us through -- has there been any change in the total economics on these engine orders between what you're expecting on equipment sales versus service? Well I see the outlook as very good.
We went into the Paris Air Show having spent a few months where the CFMI team had not really taken a lot of orders on the A320neo.
And we came out of that air show with a more than 50% share of very strong performance.
We like the orders that we got.
I'm sure that the competitors like the orders they got.
The launch is a tough process but we've been disciplined about our approach.
I think we do use everything that is available to us to compete.
And our team feels that the economics that we have on these launch orders are as good as we've had on any launches and we feel great about it.
I would add about one thing that's a little bit of real positive here in the last week obviously with the American order.
When you take a look at the decision by Boeing to re-engine and we're in a partnership with Boeing on that this is the third application for the LEAP-X engine.
And we've got a sole source position and I believe that you're going to see that aircraft in service for well into the 2020s.
And that is a tremendous opportunity for the Aviation team.
We're committed to it and that investment that we've been making in the LEAP-X technology for the last several years has really proven itself and you can see it now with the sole source position on the C919 in China.
We're competing effectively on the A320neo and now we're going to have a sole source on the next generation of the 737 when Boeing finally approves that at their board level.
I would add Deane maybe a couple of macro comments on Aviation just to piggyback on what Keith said.
If you're an investor and you sit back and just game board commercial Aviation from wide-body to narrow-body to regional jets and you look at the position GE has not just for a year or 2 but for a decade you got to like our position.
You really have to like where we are on 787 777 and narrow-body.
And so you got to like not just for a quarter but for a decade where we are #1.
And then I look financially for Aviation guys.
Look we've got the higher R&amp;D and the run rate we've got the engines coming down the learning curve.
We've got all this service revenue coming through.
We're going to be able to grow our Aviation operating profits steadily through this cycle while launching these new engines.
And so I think we've got the business positioned most strategically and financially exactly where we want it to be positioned for our investors.
And that's why I think we like the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
I didn't quite get the -- I guess I didn't quite understand your answer to Deane's question about the discounting spares and I guess on top of that when you look at Aviation the last cycle they had like a margin that was above 20%.
With all the kind of moving parts here I understand there's development expenses and all that kind of stuff.
Can you get back to north of the 20% margin in Aviation over the next let's say 3 to 5 years? Look let me answer the first point.
There was no unusual discounting of spares which was anything other than we would've done anywhere to win any of those orders.
So I think we have a big business we have a very profitable service business we have incredible relationships and long-term contracts with our customers and there was no crazy stuff that the team did to get those orders.
So I just want to be clear on that.
If you look at the margins in Aviation I think they're extremely strong.
Obviously they're powered by the incredible installed base we built over the last 15 years.
I think right now the first half they've been very strong.
In the second half they may be a little lower than what we saw in the first half.
But this is a business that's got tremendous girth.
I mean the 40% of the engines still haven't even come in for their shop visit.
We're winning market share on new orders which is going to continue to build our advantage in the installed base over the next 10 or 15 years.
I think as Jeff said the R&amp;D amount is in the run rate.
We told you about that last year a year ago at the Air Show.
What we're going to have to deal with to launch to GEnx engine and to do the development we needed to be competitive on the A320 and on whatever happened in the 737 world and what we're doing in China.
So I think all that's out there and it's in the run rates and we've got a tremendous franchise.
So I think this business has the opportunity to have a very high margin versus same period of time based on an installed base and the tremendous service franchise we have.
But '20 is not like a good kind of mid-cycle target? I don't know.
Steve look I think that margins should be able to grow during this time period and services are going to be very strong during this time period so I think that's a great target for this team.
I'm not giving you a forecast for what the [indiscernible] No we're not -- I'm not going to hold you.
Just want to get an idea of when -- you're booking all these great orders.
Clearly it's a boomer over the next several years.
That is the leverage is always a hot button issue and so I just wanted to have an idea of where that's going.
The Energy margin in the second half I mean it's going be above 15% but it's going to be below 20%.
You could fly a 737 through that range.
With our engine on it? Any -- I mean it's obviously again it's going to be a hot button issue here in the second half.
Can you give us any more directional idea of where within that range? I mean should we think about the midpoint? I mean I know this is going to be something that over the next couple of quarters people will be looking at very closely.
Just want to have kind of the right bar.
I think I'm not going to pick a margin number here.
Obviously we gave you the direction.
I think September 20 you may know we've got a separate review which is just going to be focused on the Energy business.
And we're going to do that in Crotonville and I think at that point maybe the team will give you a little more look at the dynamics of what the equipment volume is going to do in the second half and how we feel about the mix between equipment and services.
But look there is going to continue to be pressure on the dynamics that you saw in the first half here.
The wind business is going to continuing to be a drag.
We're going to continue to have the acquisitions which are terrific for us.
They're fantastic.
And as you go forward we will continue to improve the margin rates of those acquisitions but that's a drag in the second half.
And on the offset they're going to have tremendous volume and I showed you that.
So I think we've laid it out we're going to have better margins than we had in the first half but they're not going to get -- we were down a little worse in the second quarter than the first quarter.
That will not continue in the second half.
One last one.
It seems like things are getting better here in the second half.
Is there any reason why your earnings would be down quarter-to-quarter from second to third quarter? It seems like things are just continuing to get better.
So I'm wondering if there's anything -- any onetime or anything like that why earnings would be down because the street shows down earnings from second quarter to third quarter.
I think GE Capital if you look at GE Capital on a run rate I'm not sure what the street is quarter-to-quarter.
I think you for us in GE Capital we made $1 655 000 000.
If you look going forward at that there's a couple of things that occur in the third quarter that we got to take into account.
I think one we have our normal impairment review at GECAS.
We'll have to see how that comes out.
Two in the consumer business we had a real benefit in delinquencies in the second quarter and historically there's an increase in delinquencies in the third quarter in that Consumer business so we'll have to see how that plays out in the market.
Those will be the 2 biggest dynamics that I would think about.
Our next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
My first question was on the Oil &amp; Gas margins.
Those were down I guess a couple of hundred points in the first half year-on-year.
Could you maybe split out sort of what's driving that in terms of how much [indiscernible] acquisitions are weighing on that? And if you think in the second half you get the same year-on-year trend on the margins? Yes.
On Oil &amp; Gas in the quarter 50 basis points of the decline was driven by acquisitions.
Organically I think the largest driver is the fact that we had negative value gap in the quarter close to $30 million so pricing and deflation were a negative in total.
But if you look the order price index for Oil &amp; Gas turned positive so that was the first time since the second quarter '10 and we're still obviously dealing with the negative price from the prior periods in the quarter.
So I think the acquisitions are going to continue to be dilutive to the margins.
Obviously Oil &amp; Gas has 2 of the bigger acquisitions affecting them.
And we probably expect about 50 to 75 basis points in the third quarter and fourth quarter related to those deals.
And then organically we're going to have to see how we do with the value gap.
I think pricing is going to be less negative in sales but it depends on the timing of how fast that orders price works through the backlog Julian.
Okay.
And then just on the Energy business I mean you mentioned the price declines in Q2 on wind and thermal.
I mean how would you sort of expect to manage that? Because I guess the volumes pickup is substantial from here which you highlighted in the slide so you can't really do much sort of on the headcount or capacity side.
Or is your assumption just the pricing will naturally get better in '12 after sort of 6 or 9-month lag versus volumes turning? We always -- we go through a formal process on quoting and then backlog and then revenue right? So when we look at the quoting today the pricing is actually trending up on the turbines.
So I think there's always a time lag on that as you go through it.
And at the same time we're doing material productivity 2% to 3% material productivity and we're still aiming to get some deflation in there as well so...
Plus our service business.
And the Service business is extremely strong.
So I think the way you got to think about it Julian is there's a time lag to the pricing that takes place.
That always is the way it goes.
And I'd say we're seeing the early indicators of a turning but that's going to take some time.
Services actually the pricing is improving and the margins are improving and that's a good thing.
And then we're going to drive productivity and material pricing and things like that at the same time.
And I think you put all those things together we really believe that earnings for Energy are positive in the second half and they're positive in 2012 versus 2011.
And then just lastly on Healthcare.
I mean you guys as well as Philips have had surprisingly good order growth in the U.S.
in the last 3 or 4 months.
I just wondered if you thought that was -- since there was something broader in terms of the need after sort of 3 or 4 years of underinvestment there's a couple of years of catch-up spend or if you expect that order growth to sort of tail off from here? Julian I think it's not really a boomer I wouldn't say.
I think what our expectation is for the U.S.
is steady market in the low to mid single-digit type of growth and if it does better than that we'll be pleasantly surprised.
I'd say counterbalancing that a little bit is Europe where you still have a big public spend market in Europe and that was probably slightly worse than we thought.
So the 2 of them kind of balance each other out.
And the growth in the developing world and our investments in products and distribution are paying off.
And you're going to see -- you can see those in the numbers in Healthcare.
I think that's going to be the strength -- continuing to be the strength for the rest of this year and probably next year and beyond here.
And Jeff described how we thought U.S.
and Europe will play for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Just one more on Energy and then I'll shift gears.
Keith you gave us the price on orders.
Can you give us price on revenues and how that played out in the quarter? Yes.
I'm just going to have to find it here.
What else you got? You want to do your second question first? I'm actually wondering on GECAS.
I mean you guys have demonstrated that the accounting there is maybe a bit more conservative than some of the other guys that took some impairments 6 months back or so.
But given that the orders have been so dramatic on the Neo and now kind of this big bump on 37 re-engine does that change the landscape of valuations on older narrow-bodies dramatically? Have you guys worked through that yet? We thought about it obviously.
We obviously thought about it on the A320.
GECAS has continued to refresh their fleet year-after-year.
If you look we do have exposure -- a minimal amount of exposure.
We got the newest fleet.
Our average age is something like 7 years and we thought through how do you -- the toughest planes right now are clearly the 737 classics and we're really continuing to make sure we got the appropriate valuations on those.
And I think we're going to continue to have to look at that.
But I think the team has worked through it looked at what we think the implications are based on previous transitions from one technology to the next.
And they feel good about their valuations.
But I said we're going to go through the review of Aviation valuations again in the third quarter.
We'll have to see if there's any change to that.
But clearly over time Jeff when these planes finally are put into service and they're 10% to 15% more fuel efficient you're going to have a residual value impact on the planes and it will transition in over this period between now 2015 '16 and '17 when these new more fuel-efficient planes come into the market.
So we have been more conservative as you said on how we do depreciation and how we view the residual value on our aircraft versus some of the competitors that we've read about.
But I think we're going to have to continue taking it into account.
We've obviously thought about that as we put investments into these engines and some programs and also purchase planes in GECAS.
And if you're still looking for that other? On selling prices.
If you look in the quarter on renewables selling prices were down 11.7% on gas turbines on thermal selling prices were down 1.9%.
Right.
And then just finally if I could.
On R&amp;D I guess you implied it's kind of fully baked but don't you have a further step up now on the American wind on aero R&amp;D? Jeff we really don't.
I think the LEAP-X is kind of in the run rate and we had anticipated that.
The application increase will go into the LEAP-X right.
So you'll have a little bit more in the LEAP-X but the GEnx is kind of cresting and is headed on the other way down.
So that's how I think about it.
We're kind of almost done with the GEnx and to your point as we do each application you get charges to certify and stuff like that.
So they kind of offset each other.
We will have higher R&amp;D but as a percent of sales certainly in Aviation we don't expect it to be greater than the growth in revenue that's for sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
The wind orders in the quarter were really good.
The comparison was particularly easy this quarter.
They got tougher.
I mean are you still expecting wind orders to be up in the second half year-over-year or was this a particularly strong quarter for some reason? Our outlook is that the wind orders are going to continue to be pretty good.
I think our pipeline is pretty strong and as Keith mentioned earlier some of that is going to go to the Americas.
Yes our outlook is that they're going to continue to be up.
Not maybe as up as you said the second quarter comparisons are easy but our expectation is we'll continue to be up.
And the lead times on these orders are what at this point? It's a pretty flexible supply chain.
I don't know when the last time someone had to place an order to get it put into service before the end of '12 but I'm guessing 6 to 9 months would be the latest probably.
Okay.
And then just -- you're continuing to generate some modest gains in Commercial Real Estate in the U.K.
piece which -- how encouraging is that? Does that give you any hope of sort of accelerating the wind downs there and the remixing of kind of the asset mix at GE Capital? Well it's obviously better than that outlook that we've had over the last couple of years.
I think the stabilization has been very positive.
The funds flowing into high-quality properties have been very positive from both pension funds insurance funds and some global investors.
We're going to have see when it crosses over into other broader asset classes the more mid-market office and things like the warehouse and some of the multifamily space.
So it's been encouraging it hasn't turned into a complete step function change on the valuation on our equity book yet.
But certainly the trends are good and having the embedded loss go down by $1 billion in the first half is positive.
That's based on not only the work we're doing with depreciation and also impairments but also not having further declines from a valuation perspective in the marketplace.
So occupancy was up 1 point in the quarter.
For us rents have stabilized.
So I think we'll have to see how the environment plays out over the next several months in year but at least we've stabilized and we feel pretty good about the progress the team has made in that portfolio.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just first question around I'd like to dig in still to the pricing and material deflation question around energy but more broadly.
So you guys are still getting material deflation despite the commodity -- year-on-year commodity changes elsewhere and what we're seeing across your industries.
How should we think about that value gap particularly given the pricing and [indiscernible] backlog? And how long can you maintain that? Well you know we are seeing material deflation.
We'd expect to have over $300 million in material deflation for the year.
We're going to have some inflation on labor and the pricing has gone from a positive of a couple $100 million last year to a negative of somewhere between $500 million and $600 million $700 million.
So the value gap is negative.
Our expectation in 2011 is that's it negative.
It's driven by the negative pricing.
And our objective is that that will level off as we go through 2012.
As Jeff said it we're putting out quotes today that are better in pricing than what we're seeing in orders today.
But they come in in the next 6 months or so into orders and then it takes another 9 months 12 months to get those orders into sales.
So I think we're just going to have to work through this backlog.
We've anticipated that when we put together the framework we have for 2011.
We've anticipated what we know today for what we put together for the framework for 2012.
We've got to get more material deflation.
We got to continue to do a good job of sourcing from low-cost countries.
We got to simplify our products and get them to a lower cost point from a variable cost perspective and we got to be efficient in our investments on a base cost side.
So our whole team is focused on the value gap and that's what we're going to be working on.
Steve as I said earlier I'd like to manage the place to get positive margin rate growth in 2012.
The way we're going to do that is good volume try to keep the value gap no worse than '12 versus '11 good services margin enhancement and R&amp;D as a percentage of revenue cresting right.
And those are the key levers and that's what Keith went through and that's how we'd like to run the place.
We got to do our operating plans and stuff like that but that's how I plan to kind of manage the team.
Inc.</strong> And are you seeing increased competition from what you -- if you think about relative to the last cycle we've seen sort of maybe a little bit reinvigorated European competition not to mention Chinese and other competitors attempting to break into the mature economies.
Are you seeing any change in that font at this point? Look I think we've got good -- we respect our competitors but I think if you look at what we've done -- let's pick our big -- Aviation we've launched the GEnx and now the LEAP-X and we've really I think reestablished our leadership in Aviation.
In Energy you're seen the Flex -- the new large frame Flex 50 [indiscernible] and soon to be Flex 60.
They're going be the highest efficiency most flexible gas turbines in the market.
The number of products we have has grown substantially.
So I think -- Steve look we respect our competition but I think we come at this cycle with more weapons than we probably ever had.
And so I think that's where the investment has gone.
Inc.</strong> And I guess I would say or the question is if you think about the upcoming gas cycle as it comes and even the wind cycle on the state mandates would you expect to be able to get to the same share levels that you had in the last upturn? Look here's what I would say.
As we have about 50% share of the gas turbine business today I surely don't anticipate it going down.
So I think that's -- we plan to play hard.
On wind wind is kind of a different story.
We're always going to have high market share in the U.S.
and lower market share on the rest of the world.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just tax rate.
Keith can you may be address that a little bit in terms of your expectations for the progression there considering where you came out in the quarter? Yes.
If you exclude the impact to the NBCU high tax in the first quarter our expectation is that we're going to have a tax rate for the x GE Capital in the low 20% range.
And for GE Capital we expect to have high teens tax rate as their pretax profitabilities improve and the structural benefits have kind of stabilized out at I don't know somewhere around the $350 million a quarter or so.
So there are uncertainties that we have.
We've got the 2005 and 2006 and 2007 audit that's under review to be close.
If that got closed that could provide us with benefits that would maybe beyond those amounts I have.
And then obviously any legislative changes that occur usually they would be prospective.
I don't imagine they would hit us this year.
So we're anticipating somewhere in the range in what we saw in the second quarter for the year.
Our next question comes from Jason Feldman with UBS.
So I believe the Federal Reserve took over as regulator of GE Capital earlier this month.
Any takeaways or surprises from the first couple of weeks? Do you have any greater clarity on what if anything might change there with the new supervision? Well you're right.
The fed has become our consolidated regulator in July.
We have had a few preliminary meetings with them Mike Neal and his team leadership team Dave Nason our Head of Regulatory.
We have had information requests and we will share information with them.
But it's so early Jason.
I think we're going to be completely open and cooperative and give them access to everything they need and we look forward to working with them.
So it's too early to say anything about the fed.
But we're prepared as we could be but I'm sure it's going to be different than the environment we've been in.
We're not a bank and we're going to have to learn to report more like a financial bank and that's going to be a challenge.
But it's just too early.
We have just really just begun.
Okay.
In Commercial Lending and Leasing it sounds like originations continued to be quite strong but you've got pretty broad exposure across small midsized businesses.
Given the increasingly uncertain macro environment the debt ceiling debate what's going on in Europe have you seen kind of a change in sentiments among their customers or change in their needs or levels of loan demand kind of as a result of the increasingly uncertain macro environment? Hard to connect the dots between that and some of the volume we see.
I mean I think the environment has been really tough in the U.S.
and Europe for the last 2 years and everything related to providing financial products to customers has been tough.
For a while they had a lot less access to credit.
Now there's more access to credit but it's still challenging.
I'd have a hard time saying that there's a direct connection between the uncertainty and the debates in Washington or the debt crisis in Europe and the business we're seeing.
I think on a relative basis things continue to improve in our outlook.
Our backlog is up in CLL.
Our volume is strong.
It's the first quarter we had actually collections equal originations in total.
Even though we've been running off the red assets the green assets grew.
And the pricing is pretty firm.
So for us the environment feels good and getting better but I agree there's a lot of uncertainty for that customer base and I guess it's going to depend on how all these things get resolved is when people have the confidence to even invest further.
But for us I think it's good and getting slightly better.
Our next question comes from the line of Terry Darling of Goldman Sachs.
Hey Keith I'm wondering if maybe we could see if you have an update on the all-in EPS impact from acquisitions this year which presumably is dilutive but I'm wondering if you have an updated number there.
And you did mention you felt like the integrations were going well there.
I'm wondering if there's enough data on what you think the range on EPS accretion for 2012 might be? I think the best thing I would say is let's see if we can give you an update on that in September at the energy meeting.
I think it's less than $500 million pretax for the year right now and that excludes the amounts were taken to corporate.
So I think that's the amount of our pretax but we'll give you an update at the energy meeting.
Okay.
And then in terms of the integration process I mean does that at this point directionally lead you to be more encouraged about what you're seeing from a synergies perspective there or is it still early days? Yes.
I think the teams of -- the acquisitions that have closed we feel very positive about.
Everyone is a little bit above what the pro forma was for what we expected this soon.
We're pretty good at acquisitions right? We've got our processes we send in our teams we've got a lot of integration plans we do a 100-day checklist.
We've got a lot of formal reporting we have a lot of additional resources that go in.
And I think everything from our perspective on the Oil &amp; Gas energy deals is a little bit above pro forma right now.
So we like the businesses we bought.
They obviously fit with GE well and they got good teams good technology and they're off to a good start.
Orders are good.
Okay.
And then Keith I wonder if you could also maybe continue the kind of puts and takes on GE Capital beyond the third quarter? You talked about some of the issues that probably mean GE Capital EPS in the third quarter off a little bit which is normal seasonally.
But I guess I'm trying to balance the other pieces.
The losses are coming down but the asset base is shrinking on the other side of the coin.
Maybe you can comment on new business margins.
And 2012 overall I know you're thinking up but I'm wondering if you've got anymore color in terms of magnitude of [indiscernible] based on how those puts and takes are shaping up for you.
Well Jeff puts 2 pluses on top of the bar.
Look I think I gave you some of the things in the third quarter -- look obviously the business continues to improve.
We had $1.4 billion write-outs in the quarter that's about 1.8% of financing receivables.
With $800 million of provision that's only 1.05% of financing receivables I think the provision.
So that brought the reserve balance down about $550 million.
Our coverage is good at 2.3% in line with the asset improvements.
The $800 million provision I think that's lower by about $150 million if you look at the supplementals from some recoveries we've had where the amounts that we recovered were greater than the book value that we had.
So that shows up actually as a reduction in the provision.
And plus we did have some reserve in the quarter about 1/2 of that the $150 million.
So if you put that together you're probably going to look at over time if you go back to 2003 through I don't know 2007 you're probably dealing with a 1.2% 1.3% type of provision that you should be dealing with.
And that would be a more normalized thing and we're getting close to normal.
I think the only thing that's really not normal yet is real estate and that's got a lot of room for improvement and that's going to provide a lot of earnings growth.
That's what I'm going to say Terry.
Your bluebird here is real estate really.
We've seen the benefit from more liquidity.
If you had a combination of some employment improvement plus liquidity that's going to get a lot better a lot faster.
And so I think that's really the upward swing on GE Capital.
The ones obviously in the first quarter the size of our Garanti gain doesn't repeat.
I think that's the one thing that you would clearly look at just as a onetime item here Terry.
You did have a lot of originations in the quarter.
Where are margins on new business at this point? Did they come off a little bit of where the highs were last year? Are we still running hot there? What's happening at the margin with that? They're still above a 2.
We've had a very solid performance.
Mike Neal and the team have been incredibly disciplined on pricing.
And our objective to get our returns up and so they've been very disciplined and they've continued to have very good margin.
They're not as high as the peak but they're still very strong.
And lastly and I hope relatedly pace of buyback in the second half.
Obviously you got the Buffett preferred.
You spent $1 billion or so in the first half of the year.
Looks to be scoped to go higher than that in the second half if you wanted to but maybe you just comment on pace of buyback given the overall GE mosaic in the second half? Well we'll see.
I think just the preferred just to be clear that's $3.3 billion.
We'll retire 20% of what we did in 2008 in the fourth quarter in one swoop here when we retire that preferred.
So that is the priority right now but we'll continue to do the buyback and we'll continue to be opportunistic around the buyback.
Terry I would just add what I said at EPG we've got plenty on our plate from an acquisition integration standpoint.
Our near-term emphasis is going to be dividend growth and buyback.
Your next question comes from John Inch of Merrill Lynch.
Keith just so I'm clear in terms of your commentary around provision the provisions are down a lot of capital year-over-year which was sort of expected that it's kind of a positive data point.
Are we at that stage today in terms of the trajectory? Or would you still expect absolute dollar downward trajectory given your commentary? I'm sorry just the loss provision? Yes.
Yes.
I mean I think as I said if you look in the quarter at $800 million and 1.05% that's a little lower then what our historic amount would be precrisis.
And it's got 2 things in the quarter -- we have to think about the dynamics.
I'm not saying exactly what they're going to be going for.
But first of all in the consumer space we continue to see a very strong performance in asset quality.
The delinquency decline was greater than we've seen previously from the first quarter to second quarter in the portfolio.
And that resulted in lower provisions.
Second thing is in the quarter we had about $150 million of recoveries that were greater than our asset value that showed up as a reduction of provision and also some reserve releases.
It was about split 50/50.
So that is a one timer reduce the provision in the quarter a little lower than you normally would have seen.
Okay so that make sense.
Keith the businesses that you've been divesting in capital which is part of the plan what had kind of a headwind does that create though in 2012 because of the absence of the contribution benefit of the earnings that you're not going to realize next year? Is there a way to size that at this juncture? I think the biggest one is Garanti.
Obviously that was just on -- it came along with the $0.03 and then they're making $50 million a quarter.
And then beyond that I think the range would be up to another $0.015 to $0.02 maybe.
It depends on what we get done in the second half here but that will be a range for you.
That make sense.
Maybe just lastly could you just comment on what's happening to Japan sort of broadly? But then Japan as it pertains to your thermal business you're hearing they're certainly ordering a lot of your product.
I mean what's sort of been the impact and maybe you could sort of size that for us? Well we had about $600 million in the quarter of orders in Japan.
Thermal was half of that but it was energy orders.
Error derivative was very strong.
And I think Jeff you can talk about what you see as the outlook there for additional.
We didn't have a big impact in the supply chain we didn't have a big impact in the country itself in the quarter.
I think the orders were good but other than that...
I think John there's going to be another wave of thermal orders.
It's kind of like this is the summer of 2011 then we'll get ready for the summer of '12 and '13.
So my hunch is that there'll be another wave of thermal orders.
Thanks everyone.
We're going to wrap the call today.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon.
We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental date of schedule for GE Capital later today probably a little earlier around noon today.
I have some announcements regarding upcoming investor events.
As Keith mentioned we're going to be hosting our GE Energy Investor Meeting on September 20 at our Crotonville facility in New York.
We will provide more meeting logistics and information upcoming in August.
And our third quarter 2011 earnings webcast will be on October 21.
As always we'll be available today to take your questions.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes the conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] My name is Chanel and I'll be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanel.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We're pleased to host today's third quarter 2011 earnings webcast.
Regarding materials for this webcast we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast.
Slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great Trevor thanks.
Good morning everybody.
We had a solid quarter in the third quarter with earnings up 11%.
Growth was fairly broad-based.
Organic revenue growth was 8% and orders were very strong.
Energy which has been a drag so far this year should turn positive in fourth quarter.
The environment was more volatile particularly in Europe and with U.S.
housing and this had a negative impact on both Healthcare and Appliances.
However emerging market growth was very strong.
We have a strong balance sheet and we continue to execute a balanced capital allocation plan.
Significantly we retired the Berkshire preferred shares and those improved EPS by $0.03 in 2012.
So in all it was a good quarter in a volatile environment.
Orders grew by 16% in the quarter which is a good indicator for the future.
Organic orders growth was 6%.
Order pricing is flat versus previous year which is a positive sign.
We ended the quarter with $191 billion of backlog and this is the highest in our history.
Our market momentum gives us confidence and solid organic growth going forward in 2012 and beyond so overall we think a very good orders story.
For growth our growth investments are paying off with high market share.
Our revenue and growth markets are up 24% year-to-date.
We've had 8 of 9 regions experiencing 20%-plus growth.
Our services growth year-to-date is up 15% and we see continued momentum in this important space.
Our investment in R&amp;D is paying off with more launches and important segments.
We're seeing great success in Energy behind the Flex 50 a new gas engine.
Aviation is winning across the board and we enter the fourth quarter with a strong NPI pipeline in both Healthcare and Appliances.
So third quarter industrial revenue organic growth of 8% is we can sure to be very strong.
Our margins hit a low for the year in the third quarter.
We expect improvement in fourth quarter.
Energy is the big driver.
In the quarter we shipped wind and thermal units with pricing below last year.
We see that improving for 2012.
Our R&amp;D spend is normalizing and should decline as a percent of revenue in 2012.
Meanwhile acquisitions and services are improving.
As we said in the second quarter call we've seen margins come and below our expectations for 2011 but we now see a solid margin growth in 2012.
So that really is the margin story.
Now for cash we see CFOA coming in about $12 billion for 2011.
We had more working capital in line with higher growth.
As I said earlier we've executed on a balanced capital allocation plan.
In the quarter we bought $2 billion of stock.
We completed the Converteam acquisition and we've now retired the preferred shares on October 17.
So between the Berkshire preferred and the buyback in the quarter that's about $4 billion.
And we ended the quarter with $91 billion of cash on the balance sheet so extremely strong in liquid balance sheet.
In GE Capital we've given this update in the past.
I just wanted to give you an update on GE Capital Funding and capital levels.
With the $3 billion of debt we did last week we've substantially completed our 2011 long-term borrowing.
And we'll continue to do some reverse inquiries throughout the year.
We kept our commercial paper flat.
And with $83 billion of cash we're really in a great position for our 2012 maturities.
As you know the long-term debt maturities go down to $35 billion for 2013 and beyond so we have a much different funding profile.
With earnings and a smaller GE Capital our Tier 1 common went to 11%.
So we're ahead of plan on shrinking GE Capital leaving us with "dry powder" for brokerage and Asian opportunities in the future.
So this is really -- I think GE Capital -- a very good and strong story so we've got really strong liquidity and capital positions and GE Capital keeps doing a great job.
So with that let me turn it over to Keith to go through more details on the operations of the company.
Thank you Jeff.
Let me start with the third quarter summary.
We had continuing operations revenues of $35.4 billion which were flat.
Industrial sales of $23.2 billion were reported down 2%.
However as you can see from the notes on the bottom of the page if you exclude the impact of not having NBC revenues revenues were up 12% in total.
That's also reflected in the segment results on the bottom on the right side you can see the industrial revenues.
Financial Services revenues of $12 billion were up 1%.
And the earnings and EPS reported for the quarter is a little complicated this quarter so we thought we'd list all the iterations and then let me explain them line by line.
First is the measure that most analysts and investors and the GE management team use.
We earned $3.4 billion of operating earnings which was up 11%.
We earned $0.31 of EPS also up 11% and here's where retiring the Berkshire preferred comes in.
We made the commitment to retire the preferred in September.
That resulted in an impact to equity for a preferred dividend which was the difference between the carrying value we had on our books and the redemption value that we paid for the preferred as outlined in our 10-Ks.
So operating EPS including this preferred impact was reduced by $0.08.
And with some rounding that's the line that says $0.24 of EPS including the redemption of the preferred.
Next is continuing EPS of $0.22 that the only adjustment there is you include the non-operating pension.
And then next is net earnings of $3.2 billion which includes discontinued operations that's up 57% reflecting the improvement from last year's charge and discounts.
And finally net EPS of $0.22 up 22%.
That includes everything that's -- with disc ops and the impact of the preferred.
Jeff covered the cash flow of $6.5 billion.
Third quarter was consistent with the first half.
For taxes on a year-to-date basis our consolidated tax rate was 34% or 18% if you take out the highly tax NBCU gain from the first quarter.
We previously indicated that we expected a low 20% GE rate for the year excluding the NBCU gain.
We now expect the GE rate to be 19% to 20% for the year since it was about 20% in the first half; the third quarter is lower 18% and that averages to the 20% year-to-date rate.
The GE Capital rate is 14% on a year-to-date basis.
That rate is up significantly from 2010 due to the higher pretax income.
We previously indicated the GECS tax rate for the year in the high teens but our current view is 12% to 14% while the tax benefits are down from 2010.
In the third quarter international benefits increased so that our run rate of total tax benefits went from about $350 million per quarter as of Q2 to about $400 million per quarter now.
And because our view of the total year reflects those higher tax benefits we needed to book to a lower rate for the third quarter decreasing the third quarter rate by about 10 points.
As we've said before we have the '06 and '07 audit that's close to completion the rest of other planning that could affect our rate in the fourth quarter relative to our current year total framework of 19% to 20% for GE and 12% to 14% for GE Capital.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Industrial revenues were up 19% driven by Transportation and Energy.
Industrial segment profit of $3.2 billion was down 1%.
And GE Capital earnings were up 79% driving the overall segment earnings up  15%.
And I'll cover each of the segments in more detail as we go through this morning.
Before I get to the businesses I'll cover the other items page.
On the positive side we had 2 items.
First we had a true-up this quarter through our NBCU gain from Q1.
The valuation of our initial 49% investment was finalized with the outside advisers resulting in a $131 million aftertax gain that was recorded at corporate.
We also realized the $98 million aftertax gain from the sale of the Unison rings business which was recorded in our Aviation segment results.
We also had some one-time costs in the third quarter.
First we had $77 million of aftertax cost resulting from the termination of 2 supply arrangements.
Those were also recorded in the Aviation segment.
And we had $60 million of aftertax cost related to our M&amp;A things like transaction cost severance and inventory step-up.
And we had $50 million of aftertax restructuring and corporate principally for Healthcare and Energy.
So they're offsetting items in corporate and they were offsetting items in the Aviation segment in the third quarter.
I'm going to start the businesses with Energy.
Energy infrastructure was less negative in third quarter in terms of earnings growth.
However the energy results in 3Q still more than offset the profit growth in Oil &amp; Gas.
For Energy we saw very strong orders growth specially in equipment.
Overall the orders of $8.6 billion were up 15%.
Equipment orders of $4.7 billion were up 56%.
They are up 38% even excluding impact of M&amp;A.
Renewable orders of $1.8 billion were up 68%.
We had orders for 781 wind turbines versus 501 last year.
We had large orders in the U.S.
Brazil Romania and Canada.
Aeroderivative orders of $600 million were up 2x over last year.
Industrial Solutions orders of $780 million were up 29%.
And the one negative was thermal orders of $400 million; they were down 49%.
We had orders for 16 gas turbines versus 19 last year but the commitment activity that we see remains strong.
Order price index was down 1.7%.
Renewable orders was down 4.2% and thermal orders price was down 7.5%.
Service orders in the quarter of $3.9 billion were down 12%.
We had a $550-million order from Calpine in the third quarter last year that did not repeat.
That's the primary driver of the V.
Partially offsetting that our Energy Services adjacency orders of $2.8 billion were up 6%.
Revenues of $8.5 billion were up 25% that was driven by the strong volume 10 points of the growth came from the new acquisitions.
Our thermal revenue was up 60% in the quarter.
We shipped 27 more gas turbines versus -- 27 gas turbines versus 24 last year.
We also had 4 more steam turbines.
We had 21 more generators and we had $280 million more balance of plant revenue at low margins which was driving the revenue in total.
Renewables revenue of $1.3 billion was down 6%.
We shipped 633 wind turbines versus 616 last year.
Some of the revenue was from mix but pricing was down 9% or about $130 million in the quarter.
Service revenues of $4 billion were up 13% ex the acquisitions.
For segment profit we earned $1.2 billion that was down 12%.
We earned $60 million in the new energy acquisitions.
And excluding that profit was down about $230 million.
The main driver continued to be the wind business that was down over $200 million in the quarter and we also had a drag from our continued investment in programs and global growth.
So now we continue to see the pressure from the renewables business and I'll show you the future energy outlook on the next page.
On the right side we also want to cover Oil &amp; Gas.
We continued to experience very strong growth organically plus we had some growth from the recent acquisitions and some impact from the weaker dollar in the third quarter.
Orders of $3 billion were up 77% 34 points of that growth came from the M&amp;A 8 points from FX so still organic orders in the segment were up 35%.
Equipment orders were very strong up 83% ex M&amp;A.
We saw our turbomachinery orders up 33% and drilling and production was up 2.6x.
Service orders were up 13% in the quarter ex M&amp;A so a good strong organic quarter in Oil &amp; Gas.
Orders price index was basically flat at negative 0.1% in the quarter.
And revenue of $2.5 billion was up 42% up 17% ex the M&amp;A.
Equipment revenue was up 23%.
Service revenue was up 10%.
And segment profit of $319 million was up 11% that was driven by the impact of the acquisitions plus the strong volume partially offset by pricing in our global growth investments.
On the next page I just want to give you an update on the outlook for Energy Infrastructure for the fourth quarter.
Third quarter year-to-date we've earned $4.4 billion which is down 12%.
At the second quarter earnings call we showed you the growth in volume from the first half to the second half.
Lots of that volume was in the fourth quarter.
We also said we expected second half op profit to grow so we're planning on a strong fourth quarter for Energy.
And if you look at the chart the drivers are listed on the right side here.
You can see the volumes and these units are in backlog.
So down the left side wind turbines will be up 35%; gas turbines will be up 70%; steam turbines will be about flat; and aero will be down slightly.
This is going to be a big volume quarter for the Energy team.
We're also experiencing strong outages and overhauls for the Service business.
Our spending levels on programs will not be a drag on margins in the fourth quarter.
And we'll have a full quarter of all our acquisitions and acquisitions continue to perform.
So the positive energy growth starts in the fourth quarter.
We're looking forward to that and we expect it to continue into 2012.
Next is Aviation.
The Aviation team had another strong quarter in Q3.
Orders of $5.7 billion were up 14%.
Commercial engine orders of $1.9 billion were up 18% driven by GE 90.
Military engine orders $528 million were also up 15%.
Equipment orders price was up 1.5%.
And we ended the quarter with a backlog of $21 billion up 7% versus last year.
Service orders of $2.9 billion were up 18% driven by strong spares.
Our commercial spare parts orders were $27 million per day which was up 21%.
And military services were up 11%.
Revenue of $4.8 billion in the quarter was up 10% driven by the equipment.
Volume was up 11% primarily from an increase in commercial engine shipments which were up 16%.
We shipped 102 more units in Q3 driven by CFM and Small Commercial.
We shipped 28 GEnx engines in Q3 and that volume nearly doubles in Q4 as both the 787 and the 747 with GE engines begin deliveries to customers.
Service revenues were up 9% driven by the strong spares up 11% and partially offset by military which was down 2% in the quarter.
The segment profit of $862 million was up 7% that was driven by the strong volume net of positive value GAAP and the net benefit of the transactions that I covered on the other items page partially offset by higher R&amp;D and the new engine launch cost.
For Transportation the business also had another strong quarter in Q3.
Orders of $1 billion were down 28% driven by no counterparts at 2 large multiyear orders last year.
Equipment orders of $439 million were down 55% included in that there were bright spots.
Mining orders of $193 million were up 54%.
And the equipment backlog in total was very strong close to $3.9 billion up 2% over last year.
Service orders of $572 million were up 30%.
And the revenues of $1.3 billion were up 48% driven by the higher volume.
We shipped 169 locomotives versus 96 last year that drove the equipment revenues up 64%.
And service revenues were up 30% on strong part sales.
Segment profit of $196 million was up 94% over last year driven by the higher volume and continued improvement in services.
Next is Healthcare.
Healthcare team delivered another quarter of positive growth with continued reinvestment.
Orders of $4.6 billion were up 11%.
Equipment orders of $2.6 billion were up 13% with DI up 16% and Clinical Systems up 11%.
Orders were up 4 points from the weaker dollar.
U.S.
equipment was up 7% and non-U.S.
was up 18%.
And just to give you some of the pieces China was up 27%.
India was up 25%.
Latin America was up 33%.
Europe was up 2% but if you adjust for the FX it was down 8% and that gave us some pressure in the quarter versus our expectations.
Service orders up 9%.
The total orders price was down 1.2%.
We ended the quarter with an equipment backlog of $4.3 billion which was up 9% from last year.
Our revenue of $4.3 billion was up 9% driven by the equipment up 12% and service up 7%.
And for revenue just by product line ultrasound was up 20%; devices were up 8%; CT was up 5%; MR was up 1%; Life Sciences were up 12%; x-ray was down 4%; and services were up 7%.
For the quarter segment profit of $608 million was up 5% that's driven by a higher volume by a better productivity partially offset by the negative price and $30 million investments in new products.
On the right side of the page Home &amp; Business solutions had another challenging quarter.
Revenues of $2.1 billion were down 1%.
Segment profit was down 63%.
Intelligent platforms revenue was up 8%.
Lighting revenue was up 7% and Appliance revenue was down 7%.
The results in the quarter were driven by Appliances.
Domestic market was down 5% in units.
We also saw a material inflation.
We're just starting to see the impact of our August price increase and we're also continuing to invest to develop the new products which we'll start to roll out in 2012 so another tough quarter in Home &amp; Business solutions driven by the housing market here in the U.S.
And next is GE Capital.
In addition to the charts that we have in this morning's pitch here we also have other GE Capital information in the supplemental debt for your reference.
And that's on the web.
Mike Neal and the team had another strong quarter.
In the third quarter revenues of $11.1 billion were flat and it was down 4% if you adjust for FX in line with our ending that investment down 4%.
Pre-tax earnings of $1.6 billion were up 2.3x over last year and net income of $1.5 billion was up 79%.
On the right side you can see the asset quality metrics.
They were about flat for Q2.
We had good volume in the quarter $10.6 billion in CLL up 31%.
Our margins remained strong especially on new business.
Our ending net investment of $452 billion is shrinking ahead of plan.
And just on ending that investment it declined $5 billion from the second quarter.
That decline was driven by 100% by our red asset portfolio mortgages real estate equipment services which were down $7 billion from the second quarter.
And core ENI was up $2 billion mostly in CLL and retail finance.
From a business perspective I'll start with consumer.
Our consumer business had another strong quarter.
We ended Q3 with $141 billion of assets which was down 3%.
The net income of $737 million was down 5%.
That result reflects the loss of over $100 million from prior year dispositions like Garanti and Colpatria.
Excluding the disposition impact consumer was up 19%.
U.S.
retail finance had a good quarter they earned $462 million up 40%.
That's driven by lower loss provisions as delinquencies improved by 130 basis points over 3Q at '10.
Volume was $21.9 billion up 11%.
And as expected our credit costs increased from the seasonally low 2Q '11 levels to more normal levels in the third quarter.
Europe also had a good quarter in total.
They had net income of $123 million on a reported basis that's down 39% driven by the loss of the Garanti income in Turkey but partially offset by lower credit losses.
If you exclude the Garanti disposition Europe was up 7%.
U.K.
Home Lending earned $57 million in 3Q.
It's the eighth consecutive quarter of positive earnings.
Our U.K.
Home Lending assets declined $1.6 billion year-over-year; it's down to $17.6 billion.
We realized 116% of the mortgages that we liquidated in the third quarter.
Our REO stock is down to 540 the lowest since the fourth quarter of '07.
And from the peak of second quarter in '08 we've reduced our global mortgage balance from $79 billion at that time to $39 billion today so down $40 billion over that period.
Commercial Real Estate they had a nice improvement versus last year and versus 2Q.
We lost $82 million in the quarter but that was $320 million better than last year and $250 million better than Q2.
In Q3 we had $32 million of aftertax credit losses.
We had $146 million of aftertax margin impairments.
And during the quarter we sold 115 properties for $800 million recording $68 million worth of gains.
Our assets were down 17% year-over-year excluding FX and down 4% from Q2.
Again from our peak in the second quarter of '08 our Commercial Real Estate assets were down $32 billion.
Our commercial market has definitely benefited from some more liquidity in the third quarter.
We still see economic volatility in Europe.
We'll complete our portfolio evaluation review in the fourth quarter and that could result in higher marks and impairment in the third quarter but we still expect performance to continue to improve year-over-year.
Commercial Lending and Leasing business also had another strong quarter with earnings of $688 million up 55% from last year.
Results were driven by lower losses and improved margins.
CLL volume was $10.6 million up 31%.
Americas drove most of the income growth with earnings of $547 million up 58%.
Europe was flat and Asia was up slightly.
GE cash had a strong quarter.
Earnings of $208 million up 31% from last year that's driven by lower impairments.
We recorded $107 million net of aftertax impairments in Q3 as part of our annual review mostly on 737 classics.
That was $62 million less than last year and we ended the third quarter with one aircraft on the ground.
Energy Financial services also had a good quarter earnings of $79 million which was up 44% that's driven by higher core income and lower losses so overall a very good quarter a very strong quarter in GE Capital.
With all the volatility in Europe last quarter we wanted to share some facts about our businesses in Europe so we've put a page together about our GE Capital industrial franchises.
On the left side is GE Capital.
And our businesses are profitable.
Through 3 quarters we've earned $940 million which is up 32%.
Excluding the benefit of the Garanti gain our results were up 18% year-to-date.
You can see our assets by country and by business.
Our asset performance remain solid.
In terms of delinquencies our CLL delinquencies are at 4%.
They're down 20 basis points year-over-year.
Our consumer delinquencies are 9.8%.
They're down 74 basis points year-over-year.
We're very diversified.
We have over 700 000 commercial customers.
Probably the most important point on the page is our business model over 85% of the assets here are secured by collateral.
We do have around $300 million of sovereign debt in the focus countries.
It's in Greek and Italian bonds that we've talked about before.
We do not have any sovereign debt in Portugal Ireland or Spain.
We actively manage our counterparty exposures here.
We stress test the entire portfolio twice a year and it results in us taking proactive actions to reduce exposures where we feel it's appropriate.
Our view is that the assets are going to continue to come to market here at attractive prices as those banks need to downsize or exit certain areas.
And we put $2 billion to work in energy assets and in factoring businesses so far at good prices and we're optimistic that we're going to see some more opportunities here in Europe as things go forward.
On the Industrial side Europe represents 18% of our revenue.
We have seen some slowdown in orders as listed below the chart but the overall decline has been very manageable.
And with our global cost position we've seen very nominal impacts from currency.
So Europe it's an important region for us.
We've been there a long time.
Our businesses are performing okay and we're monitoring the situation closely.
With that let me turn it back to Jeff.
Great Keith thanks.
And just to wrap up just going back to the operating framework that we presented in December.
I just give you an update we're kind of 3 quarters of the way through the year.
We expect industrial growth for the quarter and the year.
Energy which has really had negatives through the first 3 quarters goes positive in the fourth quarter.
Aviation and Transportation are really slightly better than we thought when we put the framework together.
Healthcare and Appliances will be slightly lower.
Capital momentum is going to continue.
We see organic growth industrially in excess of 5%.
We see solid double-digit operating earnings for the year.
I think if you think about the pattern for the year so third quarter year-to-date industrial has been about flat year-over-year.
And Financial Services GE Capital has been growing significantly.
I think when you look at the fourth quarter our industrial earnings go positive.
Financial Services stays at a very strong rate and so you get in fourth quarter momentum and that momentum continues into 2012.
So we're confident in the total year framework for 2011 very strong solid double-digit growth gaining momentum as we end the year.
And the leading indicators remain positive so I feel really good about what the third quarter said how the fourth quarter momentum is looking and how we feel in terms of closing the year.
And then our final chart is just kind of a framework development for 2012.
And just -- this is kind of a framework that we presented at EPG and then talked about at the end of the second quarter.
And I just wanted to give you a few reflections as we look at it for the fourth quarter and kind of what we can expect when we do our December dinner and then into 2012.
So we see the key factors around GE Capital continuing to improve.
I think the real estate turnaround is underway and that shows up in the third quarter.
Our balance sheet strength is very strong and our liquidity remains high.
Industrial Healthcare and Transportation a lot of the elements and fundamentals should continue and we should continue to grow.
I think we're lined up to have solid growth in Aviation and Energy.
We've got a full year of the acquisition impact in Energy and we'll have good momentum in the fourth quarter.
Our margins should improve in 2012 versus 2011.
We're going to continue to watch the situation in Europe.
But as Keith said it really does appear manageable today.
In 2012 really we should have both solid organic growth and expanding margins.
And so we think the promise of that and the execution around that is key.
We retired the preferred shares.
We basically have done what we said we're going to do on capital allocation.
And I think the retirement of the preferred shares really provides an EPS lift for 2012 and we feel good about that.
So we like our portfolio we think our outlook is strong and we're well positioned in this volatile environment.
So with that Trevor let me turn it back to you and we'll take some questions.
Great thanks Jeff.
Thanks Keith.
Chanel I think we're ready to go to Q&amp;A now.
I know we have a lot of people that have a lot of questions but if we try to limit it to one per person with the amount of time we have that'll be great.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steve Tusa with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to make sure you guys have the margin number here.
I'm not sure if you gave a revenue number but what is the absolute profit number in rough terms for the -- either the quarter or for the year? I think $7 billion was kind of around what you were talking about before.
Is it around that number for the year? You're talking about Energy now Steve? Research Division</strong> Yes Energy.
No I think we're still in that kind of neighborhood for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question just on the price there and what you're seeing -- hearing from your customers in the U.S.
and anything going on there in the U.S.
and also just what's the price outlook going forward? The order pricing Steve in the quarter was a little better than it was in 2Q still down slightly for Energy.
Research Division</strong> It went from negative 2 9 in 2Q to negative 14 on equipment in the third quarter.
In Q3.
I think from a macro sense Steve we see good wind demand in the U.S.
for '12.
I think the gas turbine demand is going to continue to come from outside the United States.
And I don't see -- I think that kind of what the guys told you in the industrial meeting in September around pricing still kind of holds.
I think it's firming but it's -- it will continue to be a competitive market.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Davis with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering can you give a sense of the outlook on Healthcare.
I mean growth is good.
And I wonder when we get to 2012 is there -- I mean given much going on in Europe and such what are your customers telling you on spending plans? So Scott I'd say Europe and Japan if you think about those 2 markets in the second half of this year probably cost us about $70 million for operating profit something like that in the second half just those 2 markets.
And I don't -- I think Japan could get better.
I think Europe we're going to stay cautious on Europe.
U.S.
is surprisingly strong.
Our orders in U.S.
as Keith said were very solid.
And then the growth in the emerging markets are booming so we see phenomenal demand globally.
Scott I think the R&amp;D expense in Q3 was more driven by some of the investments we're making at Home Health and Healthcare IT.
We're launching this Colibria product in Healthcare IT more so than what I would call classic MR/CT type of activity.
So a lot of the R&amp;D that you see is really more in the life sciences IT Home Health space.
And when we think about '12 I mean we haven't done our operating plans yet but when we think about '12 I think the profile of mid to high single-digit revenue growth double-digit op profit growth is still the way we think about '12.
Keith I don't know would you add anything to that Keith or...
I think our strength clearly is in the emerging market so you can see the orders growth.
We've invested localized our business globalized our business.
I think the team is doing a great job of that.
I think U.S.
as you said is a little better than we thought and we've got to do a good job executing there.
And Europe's probably going to stay slow based on reimbursements and the current stress from a government perspective so I think it's a pretty good outlook.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff I think I can ask this question for pretty much any of the big segments but -- so maybe I'll just ask it in a bigger picture sense.
I mean how do you feel about your cost structure? Obviously you had a weak pricing environment but maybe that's also a reflection of your cost structure could have been -- I mean I guess theoretically a little better and you can show them better incremental margin.
But if we do hit a bit of a roadblock in 2012 and things slow down where do you -- what's your confidence in -- at least on the cost side? I'd say Scott when you look at our -- when you look at the variable cost productivity what we're doing in sourcing and direct cost I think that continues to be very strong.
We have increased the investments in global growth and we have increased investments in R&amp;D.
We think a lot of those investments are in place and they are showing up on the revenue line.
Our organic growth is great.
Our growth in the growth markets is superior to our peers.
Our growth in services is superior to our peers.
So we think Scott that we are well positioned for 2012.
That's really the basis on which we've made these investments.
Our 2012 and 2013 our R&amp;D expenses as a percentage of revenue will decline in 2012.
But I think when you look at our backlog when you look at our organic growth when you look at our revenue run rates they are extremely strong and I think farewell versus our peers and that's really why we made the investments.
I think on the back office we got to continue to stream line.
I think we have opportunities.
We're investing in IT projects to try and consolidate and get consistent global ledger platforms.
We're going to look at back office outside the U.S.
on a broader basis.
So I think there's always opportunities there for us Scott and I think that will help us to kind of offset some of the funding that we've done on the growth side.
Our next question comes from the line of Deane Dray of Citi.
Research Division</strong> This new projection of double-digit earnings growth in 2012 really puts GE among the very few companies today to draw the line in the sand and say you can have that kind of earnings growth and it's certainly welcome news.
But could you share a little bit more of the assumptions most importantly kind of the geographic splits core revenues and can we start there please? Why don't I start and then Keith you fill it in? I think -- I'll start with GE Capital Deane just say kind of arithmetically we continue to progress.
The returns expand -- the returns stay high on the E&amp;I base and the amount of the red offsets run off.
And so I think from a GE Capital standpoint a double-digit growth is kind of arithmetic.
And then when I look at our big -- 2 big businesses Aviation and Energy extremely strong backlogs tremendous product profiles really good geographic mix and I would say comparing to at least in the case of Energy easier comparisons in 2011 versus 2010.
So I like the way our 2 big industrial businesses are positioned.
But I particularly like the backlogs and how they're positioned.
From the standpoint of Transportation kind of more of the same as it continues to expand in Healthcare I described earlier.
So our belief is we ought to see very attractive organic growth and expanding margins industrially in 2012.
And a lot of our positioning is in growth markets.
So a lot of our orders strength and a lot of our positioning is there.
Deane I think it goes back to Scott's question.
We position to win in '12.
I don't think the environment has really surprised us so much and we position our company to win in '12 in this kind of environment.
So we've got the goods I think from a product background and from a backlog standpoint.
Anything to add? Well I don't have specific geographic numbers but take a look at kind of where we are third quarter year-to-date 59% 58% 59% of our revenue is outside the U.S.
Our orders are up 16%.
It's pretty well split domestically and globally.
We are getting a lot of growth out of the emerging markets.
That's going to continue.
Our backlog is very strong and it's going to -- we're going to continue to get 59% 60% 61% of our growth out of the -- outside the U.S.
So I think in terms of that that's one way to look at it.
The other thing I think as we get into the fourth quarter here we're going to do our operating plan.
And obviously in December you'll have a more thorough discussion on what we think the framework is by business.
This framework is off of our growth playbooks that we've done in the summer and all of our business updates that we've done after the third quarter.
We feel pretty good about it.
And the $191 billion of backlog is the most backlog we've ever had and we're really not counting on much in the U.S.
in the gas turbine field and stuff like that so we're really not -- we're not just looking for that much from the developed economies.
You are going to see a good wind -- good wind activity.
As you saw the orders in the quarter that's going to help.
And obviously that's going to be one thing that will be positive in the U.S.
in '12.
We'll have a good amount of wind activity as people work to get those units in place to qualify for the production tax credits that are available.
Research Division</strong> And just on that last point for the -- all eyes are on the Energy margins in 2012 and at the Analyst Day it was a plus 15%.
So will we be at a better sense of how much plus 15% there is in the fourth quarter term? It should be the starting point.
We've said they're going to improve off of where we've been this year.
They've got a big volume quarter and it should be directionally what we're trying to achieve for 2012.
We'll take the next question with Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to take I guess a segment angle to Scott's question cost structure otherwise.
But at Energy can we have a little more detailed walk on how profit is actually down on 25% revenue growth and some added perspective there? Sure.
If you look -- I'll do it by the margin percents maybe Chris.
So in the third quarter last year we're a little over 20% margins.
The wind business alone drove margins down by 2.9 points in the Energy segment.
A lot of that was price as I mentioned and some of it was the mix.
M&amp;A acquisitions drove margins down by 6/10 of 1 point.
And then our global programs investments and the balance of plant revenue that we talked about account for the other 1.3 points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just directionally with Aviation you get 2x the GEnx shipments in the fourth quarter.
Would we be looking at a similar magnitude of margin impact sequentially as we saw in 2Q to 3Q? I have to take a look at that.
I would say that I think -- I think that with the increase in the GEnx engines you'll be closer to flat on op profit V than you will up 7.
I think that's probably a way to think about it.
I don't have the final agenda -- Aviation number for the fourth quarter but it will be less of a positive V obviously in the fourth quarter than what we have in the third quarter just based on that GEnx ramp.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Sprague of Vertical Research.
Just a question on capital allocation.
Keith you mentioned these things improving at capital and maybe in position to start some bulk origination.
I think investors are kind of expecting a dividend out of capital and maybe it comes back in share repurchase and -- I remember people talking about it a dividend beyond kind of the normal December hike.
Is that the way to think about things? And how does cash flow and capital allocation actually play out in 2012? Well we expect to have a stronger CFOA from our industrial businesses in 2012 than 2011.
We won't have the drag of not having the NBCU cash year-over-year and we'll have the growth in the industrial businesses including the acquisitions and obviously the growth in our earnings.
From a capital perspective our plan is to have a dividend to add the GE Capital back to the parent in '12 we've got a lot of work to do on that.
We've obviously worked hard over the last couple of years to strengthen our capital ratios.
You saw the numbers there they're very strong compared to peers and other standards out there.
As you know though the Fed just became a regulator in mid-July it's very early in the process of them getting to understand us and we're working constructively and transparently with them and we'll have to give you an update as we go forward with them on that.
Our objectives are still the same and we've got a lot of work to get at that.
Jeff I think we expect to have a lot of cash to allocate in 2012.
And we -- I think we still want a balanced approach.
We like the dividend growth.
We like doing small deals but we think the Energy team has played -- has played right now and so we'll be selective in terms of where we do M&amp;A.
And then buybacks we've done -- I think that being able to $1 billion in the quarter plus the Berkshire preferred is really $4 billion in Q3 which is going to benefit investors next year.
So we'll continue really with the balanced and disciplined capital allocation approach.
And then just finally for me just thinking about R&amp;D and Aero going into next year you got the GEnx ramp there are some comments out there about fuel burn on GEnx.
I don't know if that's kind of normal new engine stuff but can you speak to what you think you need to spend in '12 on both GEnx and LEAP-X? And can Aero margins actually drift higher next year in the face of that? I think we're -- I think we're just kind of in the normal launch on the GEnx.
And the performance improvement programs really look to be either on or ahead of schedule so we feel good about -- we feel good about that.
And then again I think for next year we've got a shot at expanding margins in Aviation and -- we are launching these new engines but that's really where our focus is.
And we've got a lot of the -- a lot of the GEnx is going to be in the run rate this year in terms of the shipments so we're kind of -- don't have that headwind when we look at 2012.
And I think that's a real positive for investors and that's what we're kind of getting behind us this year.
And our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Energy Infrastructure pricing just in terms of the -- just the dollar effect negative from price on your earnings.
I guess for this year year-to-date it maybe $400 million or something for Energy Infrastructure as a whole the full year may be near $500-million plus.
When you were saying you feel good about the energy backlog I understand the volume outlook is improving but does that also mean that the price hit to your Energy Infrastructure earnings in '12 should be a smaller number than we're seeing in '11 right now? Yes I mean I still expect it to be negative year but it's not nearly going to be at the magnitude that it's been this year.
I think we had -- this was a particularly tough comparison year Julian just given the wind margins in 2010.
So I think that's just the run rate that we see to be less -- much less of a headwind next year than this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just within the Oil &amp; Gas margin specifically obviously down a fair amount year-on-year is there anything going on in terms -- I understand there's probably some dilutive effect from acquisition integration -- but is there anything going on in terms of the pricing environment and maybe you've seen around Oil &amp; Gas pumps a couple of companies in the past 10 days have talked about slowing orders because projects are getting pushed out? Could you just give an update on the -- sort of the volume order outlook and also what the effects from price are in Oil &amp; Gas specifically on the margin? Well the volume -- volume continues to be incredibly strong.
As you saw in our orders in turbomachinery and also drilling and production.
For the quarter we -- I can do it again on op profit walk we had a little over 16% op profit in the '10 -- third quarter '10.
A negative price was about $30 million that's 1.4 points down.
The acquisitions were about 7/10 of 1 point so again we're earning money but at a much lower margin rate than our core business.
And then the global investment that we've been making are about another 7/10 of 1 point getting close to the 13% they had 12.5% they had in the quarter.
And our next question comes from Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
A couple of follow-ups.
First on capital allocation is -- do you have any update on or sense of timing on the completion of the Fed process? And is that completion a necessity in terms of moving on the dividend? Are those 2 tied at the hip I guess? They are.
We're working cooperatively with them imagine being parachuted in the GE Capital in July and saying you know the whole place they've got a lot of work to do.
We're cooperating with them.
I think we're just going to have a constructive open dialog.
We're having a lot of meetings and a lot of work is going on.
But we're going to respect the Fed and we're waiting for them to work cooperatively with us on when we make a decision on the dividend back from GE Capital.
I think they've got a lot of learning to do and we've got a lot of information to share with them and we got to work constructively on that.
So it does matter and it does depend on them and we're going to work cooperatively with them to get to that point.
Research Division</strong> And Keith just to be sure I'm clear there so is the -- is just the dividend up from capital or any dividend at the beginning of...
It's the beginning of the capital that I'm referring to.
Research Division</strong> Just the dividend on the capital.
Well I mean we'll work with the board as we always do on the dividend plans for GE and total as Jeff mentioned.
It's a real party for us in terms of capital allocations it's the dividend to our investors and we want to keep our -- around the 45% payout ratio and we feel we've got a pretty good outlook to deliver on that.
Terry I just want to make sure that that is well understood that the GE dividend to our investors is a real priority.
I think that moves really independently of the Fed process.
And from the board and from my standpoint it remains an extremely strong priority for the company.
Research Division</strong> Helpful.
And then in terms of the capital allocation thought process between acquisitions and continuing this kind of pace of buyback with some of the dislocation asset prices seem to be some opportunities out there that you mentioned on the capital side what are you seeing on the industrial side? Or should we think that buyback remains a priority at least in the near term? Terry I kind of take it segment by segment.
I think the Energy guys have enough on their plate right now so I really think -- we are full throttle execution mode in Energy.
Aviation and Healthcare if we do anything it's going to be kind of on strategy and accretive and in our wheelhouse and in the size range that we've talked about in the past.
So we always want to stay opportunistic.
We always want to stay focused on our key growth segments in the future.
Like I said earlier I really -- I like our backlog.
I like our product profile.
I think we have positioned ourself that -- and again nobody can predict the environment right? We live in a more volatile world.
But I think if you look at our backlog and our product profile the odds of us having organic revenue growth equal to or greater than our peers is quite high just with the stuff we've got in our backlog right now.
So we don't think we need acquisition to deliver on what the company needs to do for our investors in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly Keith is there any way to put an EPS number on the dilutive effect from acquisitions all in this year and what you are expecting EPS accretion all in next year based on the deals that have been done at this point? I don't know about an EPS number.
In terms of the results we're going to earn somewhere around $300 million in the deals for 2011.
I think the offset that's mostly in the Energy and Oil &amp; Gas segment the offset to that is in the BD cost and some of the restructuring we've been taken to corporate.
It's pretty much a wash for 2011.
We will have incremental growth in 2012 from the acquisitions.
It should be quite healthy.
And we'll have a real decline in the offsetting costs that are coming into corporate.
So I think the acquisitions are going to be pretty accretive next year.
I don't have an earnings per share but it's going to grow from the $300-plus million at the Energy segment into 2012 just based on a full year.
We also expect to start getting some of our synergies and you'll have a nice offset by not having some of those costs at corporate.
It's a good question Terry.
We'll make sure that we show that in December.
Research Division</strong> And sorry if I can one more any tax thoughts for 2012 Keith that you would want to start us out with here? I really don't have a framework for that yet.
I'd really love to wait until kind of the December outlook to be able to give you a better look at where we think 2012 taxes are going to be.
Our next show in comes from John Inch of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Keith were there gains in the CLL business? I'm just trying -- I realized the provisions were down but I'm just trying to understand a little bit why exactly the profits were up 55% if the revenues were flat? Are you getting better spreads or...
There is some better margin in there.
I didn't have any gains of a big amounts over $50 million that I recall in CLL.
In terms of the walk of profitability from a net income from third quarter last year to this year the losses were $120 million and the base income was up $125 million.
A lot of that was margin.
Research Division</strong> And is that margin North America mostly I'm assuming? I don't have a split of where is -- I see.
There are improved margins in North America that was a lot of it.
There's a little bit of margin improvement in Asia and margin is about flat in Europe.
Research Division</strong> And then can I just ask you guys I appreciate the color on the Europe profile.
Maybe one of the ways to kind of stress test this would be to just sort of look back and try to understand a little bit what your experience was in Europe in the previous recession.
Just because all else equal North America looks -- feel pretty resilient but Europe seems headed for a recession.
So the question kind of comes down to if we do well into that sort of an environment what do you think the -- what do you think the risk of some sort of a -- some sort of a haircut to the asset base in the associated book equity would be under that scenario? Is there a way to think about that? I mean I realized a lot of your loans are collateralized.
The GECAS planes can be flown out or reassigned.
I'm just curious.
Look we've got a couple different stress cases.
If you have a normal slowdown in the economy you're going to have higher delinquencies and that will roll through in sort of normal losses.
I don't think there's anything precipitous about that.
We have run other stress cases that are a lot tougher in terms of the total capital markets look in Europe and we still think those are manageable.
But I think if you're just talking about Europe -- look we're expecting Europe to have slow growth.
They're going to be deleveraging and there's going to be some volatility and we lend money on that basis.
So I think we would have higher delinquencies.
And as you have higher delinquencies you probably will have some higher losses in Europe.
But our base stress cast test with the scenario slowdown a little slowdown in Europe is very manageable for us a normal credit cycle I would say.
Research Division</strong> Just lastly Jeff as you think out is there some reason why you wouldn't want to prospectively manage capital lower than the kind of 30 to 40 target over time? I don't mean quickly but over time is there some strategic reason why 30 to 40 you feel good about that positioning today? John what I've said is right now what we've tried to give to investors is a sense of what's in our control and I think we've kind of executed since the financial crisis.
Those things are in our control so that's why we talked about 30 to 40.
I think when we look out over time it's just to me it's what's the way to maximize value of GE for our investors and what's the right split of businesses and what's the right capital allocation.
And so we're going to have the reflect on that once we kind of go through the processes we are in today but it's going to be -- it's going to be how do you maximize shareholder value what's the right split? Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I understand the Fed is still doing their work and so there's not much to say there.
But any sense as far as whether GE Capital Services or GECC is the right entity? And both have strong Tier 1 ratios but the 1.3 point difference between the 2 has a minimal impact on the potential set of capital that you can maybe bring back to the parent.
But any sense on whether it's GECS or GECC? We're still working with them on what's going to be the holding company level.
I think you've seen we strengthened the ratios in both entities consistently over the period and both are manageable.
There's a runoff operation in GECS so the runoff insurance operations don't relate to the ongoing running of GE Capital.
We'll have to see which entity is the right one to land on.
At the end of the day we're going to be responsible for both.
We've consolidated the GECS level and will be responsible for all the operations of that entity no matter which gets picked for the regulation.
The regulation is going to be throughout the company is the bottom line Nigel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final one obviously you got -- a big maturity coming up in 2012 in GE Capital [indiscernible] but you've also got a lot of cash in the balance sheet.
How much of the $83 billion of cash is earmarked for those maturities? Well we plan on having a very solid funding year in 2012.
We're going to end the year just coincidentally somewhere around $87 billion which is very close to the number we have today.
We plan to issue probably $25 billion to $30 billion.
We're  still working on our plans for next year.
We did obviously $25 billion this year.
We did $24 billion we'll do $25 billion.
We've got alternative funding growth of $5 million to $15 million.
We've got $1 billion.
We've got the business cash flows and then we have the maturity.
So we're planning on bringing that cash pool down substantially next year.
I mean basically we've immunized a lot of the long-term debt maturities in 2012 with cash.
We borrowed it in advance.
And so we're planning on bringing that cash pool way down in 2012 by the end of the year bring it closer to 50 than it is to the 80 that we have today.
Research Division</strong> And what's the impact on earnings because obviously you have a positive spread as you pay down debt with cash? Well I think you'll start to get some of that in '12 and you'll get some of that in '13.
Right now the negative carry is several hundred million dollars a year for having all this excess cash.
And our final question comes from Steven Winoker Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So just -- I guess big picture for a second you have been talking about double plus signs in that 2012 since your last outlook last year in December.
What's your conviction or confidence level as we start talking about that Energy number the tax rate the dividends? I know there's a lot of moving parts here but if you sort of gauge your confidence level around getting that in each of those points relative to where you've been over the last I guess 9 months or so talking about -- talking about this the whole time.
Again our order rates backlog market position.
By market position I mean our share position in key products has only improved since the first time we've talked about this.
Clearly we've got to be mindful of what's going on in Europe and things like that.
But when you look at our backlogs in Aviation and Energy they're quite strong.
And we've got a full year carryover of the acquisitions to what Keith talked about.
We've done a good job from a capital allocation standpoint of retiring the preferred stock that's behind us.
I think in GE Capital you're going to have a better commercial real estate year next year than this year.
So I think if you look at the big drivers Steve it's just -- it's either in backlog or the momentum we have in Q3 helps us -- helps solidify that view going forward.
Yes I think it does depend obviously on what happens in the world.
Our view is we're going to have a slow growth developed world.
We're going to have a slow growth in the U.S.
and slow growth in Europe.
Europe could be flat next year even -- or maybe it's in a recession.
But it's not -- we're not planning on a real huge decline in Europe or in the U.S.
And in the developed world -- developing world we expect to have continued good orders momentum and it's very broad-based.
It's in all these growth regions that we're operating in.
And we think that's going to continue with some volatility.
I don't think -- you don't think Brazil goes straight up forever and China will have some slowdowns from 9% to 8% or whatever.
So we're planning on a slow growth developed world continued high-growth developing world based on the businesses we're in.
We're in heavy infrastructure and that's where those capital expenditures are being made in those growth regions.
And we've got a lot in the backlog as Jeff said we're going to go through our operating plan -- plans here in the fourth quarter.
We'll give you a good update in December.
But it feels pretty good about where we're positioned today.
The fourth quarter and the Energy performance is going to be an important indicator for us we've got to execute and we'll have to show you that.
And we feel good about that outlook and we'll give you an update as we said in December.
Research Division</strong> And that pricing in the backlog you're basically -- you're saying it is not getting any worse at a minimum in getting better really the way you're  looking at it.
I think the comparisons are certainly easier obviously when you look at what we've had to deal with with the margin compression in 2011.
We're still going to have price pressures as Jeff said in 2012.
I hope it's less than that we had in 2011 when you look at the full year.
We've got a lot of orders to come to see what happens with that in 2012.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And you took provisions up to over $1 billion this time but not by a huge amount.
Was that provision increased? I mean how much of that was just driven by your current loss experience versus your concern about what you're seeing in Europe and other places? The main driver in the quarter was what we talked about the retail business went back to more normal level of delinquencies.
We had in the U.S.
about $300 million impact in the provision in the third quarter versus the second quarter.
That was driven by delinquencies in the U.S.
retail business going up 39 basis points.
Now on a historic basis you go back 3 or 4 years and you average the third quarter versus second quarter it normally goes up 55 basis points so a little better than historic but as we planned and that's the main driver for the provision change upward in the quarter.
Just a couple of items to close out housekeeping announcements.
The replay for today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We'll be distributing our normal quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital around noon today.
And I do have a couple of announcements for upcoming investor events at year end.
First we will host our GE Capital Investor Meeting in person on December 6 at our -- near our headquarters site at Norwalk Connecticut.
We'll send out details once that's finalized.
Second our Annual Outlook Investor Meeting with our Chairman will be in New York City at the normal place on December 13 and more information will be sent out closer to that date also.
Finally our fourth quarter 2011 earnings webcast will be on January 20.
As always we'll be available today to take your questions so thank you very much.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] My name is Chanel and I will be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanel.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We're pleased to host today's fourth quarter 2011 earnings webcast.
Regarding materials for this webcast we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available.
Slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
Now I'd like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great Trevor.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Look GE finished the year with real strength.
We had the best order results in history.
Many of our key end-use markets are showing momentum like Commercial Real Estate and Aviation.
The emerging markets continue to be very strong.
There are a few challenged markets like Europe and Appliances but on balance we have a positive outlook.
Company operations were strong.
EPS grew by 11%.
Organic growth was 5%.
CFOA and liquidity were very strong.
GE Capital exceeded all of their performance goals and ended with a very strong Tier 1 common ratio.
We're executing a balanced capital allocation plan.
We increased the dividend again in fourth quarter.
Overall the dividend grew by 21% in 2011.
Our buyback for the year was 5.4 billion including both common shares and the Berkshire preferred.
Finally we ended 2011 with confidence that we could deliver on our 2012 double-digit of earnings framework.
So overall a good quarter.
Orders grew by 15% which was up 9% organically.
We had fairly broad-based strength.
Of particular note Energy orders were up 23%.
Thermal orders were up 88% and we had orders for 50 heavy-duty gas turbines in the quarter.
Orders in the emerging markets grew by 26%.
We end the year with $200 billion of backlog and had an equipment book-to-bill ratio of 1.23 for the quarter.
So these numbers certainly support a 5% to 10% organic growth goal for 2012.
Our investments in growth are paying off.
First on the global front we had a 25% expansion in our Industrial growth market revenue.
Our expansion was broad-based with most businesses and most regions experiencing strong growth.
Services grew by 14% and expanded margins.
We had strong growth across all businesses and we ended the year with $147 billion of service backlog.
We increased R&amp;D by 16% in 2011 resulting in multiple new product launches.
In Healthcare we launched leadership products in MR ultrasound and interventional.
Energy is growing in both the heavy-duty gas turbine market with the Flex 50 and 60 but also in the distributed energy products with solar and waste heat recovery.
Aviation has positioned the LEAP-X to win and had the H80 turboprop launched to penetrate new segments.
Rail is picking up global orders.
We're launching a full range of Appliance products in the next 6 quarters.
So overall our organic growth should continue.
And we made progress on margins in the quarter.
We're up 250 basis points versus third quarter '11.
Most of our negative rate versus fourth quarter 2010 is explained by acquisitions and R&amp;D investment.
Looking forward we still feel good about a 50 basis point improvement in 2012.
We have good productivity programs in place.
We're making structural improvements and our global and R&amp;D investments are on a run rate.
We see energy pricing stabilizing as we move through 2012 and into 2013 and so margins are an important focus for our leadership team and we think we'll make progress in 2012.
In cash we had very good very strong cash performance.
CFOA was $5.5 billion in the fourth quarter.
That's a record quarter.
This led to total CFOA of $12.1 billion for the year.
Our working capital performance was very strong in the fourth quarter.
Consolidated cash was $85 billion at year end.
Our capital allocation plan was in line with expectations.
We grew the dividend twice in 2011.
We completed nearly $12 billion of acquisitions and bought back $5.4 billion of stock including the Berkshire preferred.
So overall cash and capital allocation were either equal to or better than planned and we feel good about that performance.
We continue to strengthen GE Capital liquidity.
We're prepared for 2012 maturities by having a substantial amount of cash on hand.
We've already issued $5 billion of long-term debt.
So we're off to a good start.
Our Tier 1 common ratio was 11.4% for GECC and 9.9% for GECS.
On a Basel III basis we compare favorably to the banks.
We ended 2011 with $445 billion of ending net investment ahead of our plan.
As a result we're resetting our ending net investment goal for 2012 to between $425 billion and $440 billion.
We will continue to grow in high return segments.
Our expectations for GE Capital earnings are unchanged for 2012.
At the same time we expect to have lower debt issuances for the year.
So looking forward we've achieved a focused high margin safe GE Capital a Financial Service business that can grow and win in this marketplace.
And with that I'll turn it over to Keith to go through operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start with the fourth quarter summary.
We had continuing operations revenues in the quarter of $38 billion.
They were down 8%.
Industrial sales of $26.7 billion were reported down 7%.
However if you look at the notes at the bottom of the page excluding the impact of not having the NBC revenues last year GE's Industrial sales were up 11%.
Financial Services revenues of 11.6% were down 9%.
That was driven by our lower assets year-over-year mostly.
Operating earnings of $4.1 billion were up 6% and operating earnings per share of $0.39 were up 11% reflecting the benefit of retiring the preferred shares.
Continuing earnings per share includes the impact of the non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations and that reflects a $0.02 charge this year which I'm going to cover on the next page and also on a comparison basis the non-repeat of the net $0.06 of gains we had last year in discontinued operations.
Our cash for the year of $12.1 billion was very strong.
We had a great fourth quarter and the total year and Jeff covered that.
For taxes in the fourth quarter our tax rates were 15% for GE excluding GE Capital.
The GE Capital rate was 4% and those rates include about $0.03 of benefit from our IRS audit resolution for the years 2006 and 2007 and I'll go into a little more detail on that on the next page.
So those amounts put us right in line with our third quarter outlook for tax rates for GE and GE Capital.
The consolidated GE rate ended the year at 29%.
The GE rate excluding GE Capital was 38% and that includes the impact of the NBCU gain from the first quarter.
If you exclude that the GE rate was 19% for the year.
That's up 2 points over last year.
And the GE Capital rate for the year came in at 12% and that rate's up significantly from 2010 as a result of our significantly higher pretax income.
As you look forward for 2012 I would estimate our GE rate to be somewhere in the low 20% range and the GE Capital rate to be somewhere in the mid-teens range for 2012.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Industrial revenues were up 10%.
Industrial segment profit was up 2%.
That was driven by Transportation and Aviation.
You can see Energy was flat and that's a big improvement versus the 3Q year-to-date results.
Healthcare was down slightly and Home &amp; Business Solutions continue to be negatively impacted by the housing market.
Down at the bottom GE Capital had another strong quarter with earnings up 58% and I'm going to go into each of the segments in more detail in a few pages.
Before I get to the businesses I will start with the other items page.
As we mentioned during third quarter we were in negotiation for final resolution of the 2006 2007 tax years with the IRS.
We did reach a resolution on several tax matters for those 2 years that resulted in $0.03 of benefit in the fourth quarter.
And in terms of geography $0.01 of that was in Industrial and $0.02 of that were recorded in GE Capital.
So overall a $0.03 benefit at the end of the year from that resolution.
We also had some one-time costs in Q4.
We had a little more than $0.02 related to restructuring.
We reduced the cost structure in Energy Healthcare and GE Capital.
We also had almost $0.01 of one-time costs related to this year's acquisitions as we've had throughout the year.
So if you look at where these were recorded the charges were recorded at corporate.
On an after-tax basis we have $78 million in Energy $58 million in Healthcare $28 million in GE Capital and then Aviation H&amp;BS Transportation and corporate all had about $15 million of restructuring as we work on lowering our cost base as we go into 2012.
On the bottom of the page we did an update on Grey Zone reserves in the fourth quarter.
While the claims have declined significantly from the peak that we saw in the first quarter of 2011 we did see an uptick in September.
Then we saw declines in October through December.
Based on the 2011 activity we've updated our long-term claims reduction assumption.
We had set this at 4% in the third quarter of 2010 and we reduced it this quarter by about 1 point.
So if you include the current claim severity as well as the claims assumption adjustment it resulted in a $243 million addition to the reserves in the fourth quarter.
We end the year with $692 million of reserves and we expect the claims to continue to decline.
The December claims were down and we will have to obviously monitor and communicate where we are in Grey Zone going forward but the trends feel good based on where we are at the end of the fourth quarter.
One other point that is not on the page as we discussed in the first quarter earnings we did have 6 more days in Q1 2011 versus Q1 2010 and that's just based on our fiscal calendar.
That helped us by about $0.01 EPS in the first quarter.
In the fourth quarter we had the opposite effect.
We had 6 fewer days in the fourth quarter of '11 versus '10 and that impact was about $1 billion of lower revenue and about $0.01 less EPS in the fourth quarter and so we also absorbed that impact.
Next I want to cover 2 reporting updates for you.
On the left side we're in the process of merging GE Capital Services into GE Capital Corporation so that we end up with one SEC registrant for Financial Services.
Basically the current reporting for GE Capital Services will become the going-forward reporting for all of GE Capital Corporation.
Those results at GE Capital Services will be the segment GE Capital that we use with investors that will be what Mike Neal and the team run.
There won't be 2 organizations.
We think this is a big simplification.
It will be effective for the first quarter earnings and we're going to file an 8-K today outlining this merger.
So there's no change in the fourth quarter or how we're reporting GE Capital until the first quarter and going forward we'll have one consistent Financial Services entity.
So I look forward to getting to just reporting GE Capital and having it be the total enterprise.
On the right side we completed an internal reorganization in October.
We moved the responsibility for the measurement and controls business run by Brian Palmer over to Dan Heintzelman in the Oil &amp; Gas business.
You can see the financial size here $4 billion of revenue $600 million of op profit on a total year basis and the details of this move are in the supplemental materials that we released this morning.
We moved this business because it reflects the customer alignment for the M&amp;CS business.
It's much more aligned with the Oil &amp; Gas base.
It's going to give us more scale.
In the solutions business for Oil &amp; Gas there is no change to the overall Energy Infrastructure segment.
So this is just between Energy and Oil &amp; Gas within the segment.
And today on the results that we'll show you I'll give you both the before and after so you can clearly see this impact.
So 2 organization changes and I'll move on to the business results.
First is Energy Infrastructure.
The fourth quarter was a mixed performance.
We had a terrific orders quarter as Jeff talked about and I'll give you more details.
Revenue was also very strong but it was less than our September forecasts.
We had some wind units and we had some equipment installations pushed into 2012.
We also had some impact that was worse than we expected in September from the stronger dollar.
Segment profit while it was significantly better than the first 3 quarters it was slightly less than the growth we expected and I'll cover that by business.
I'm going to cover the details for Energy and Oil &amp; Gas on the new basis as I've just covered.
So you can see that down on the bottom left.
However the pre-reorganization basis is also shown on the bottom left and as I said the supplemental data has all the details.
So what I'm going to go through now is on the basis with M&amp;CS moved into Oil &amp; Gas.
I'll start with Energy.
We had another quarter of great orders growth.
Orders of $11 billion were up 19%.
Equipment orders at $6 billion were up 33%.
They're even up 24% excluding the impact of the acquisitions.
Renewable orders at $2 billion were up 53%.
We had orders for 1 023 wind turbines versus 477 a year ago.
Thermal orders of $1.9 billion were up 88%.
We received orders for 50 gas turbines versus 29 last year.
That's a great quarter for gas turbines.
Equipment orders price was down 4.4%.
Renewables pricing was down 4.9%.
Thermal pricing was down 12.5%.
If you look at the combined thermal and Power Gen Services orders price impact it was down 5.5% and service pricing was flat.
Service orders in the quarter $5 billion were up 6%.
When you look at the top line revenue of $9.2 billion was up 11%.
That's driven by the strong volume we had and the acquisition benefit.
Organic revenue in Energy was up 6%.
Equipment revenue of $5 billion was up 15%.
That was driven by renewables so $1.6 billion was up 15%.
We shipped 688 wind turbines versus 592 last year.
That was a little short of our goal if you look at what we put out for the third quarter.
As we expected for the total year we had some slip.
End market revenue was up 57%.
Aero revenue was up 14% and that growth was partially offset by thermal revenues of $1.3 billion.
It was down 3%.
We had higher volume of gas turbines 33 this year versus 18 last year but that was more than offset by having lower balance of plant revenue items that are produced by other parties that we don't make but we include the project and also the lower pricing.
Service revenue about $4.1 billion was up 7%.
And for the quarter segment profit of $1.7 billion was down 3% as the benefits of the higher volume and material deflation were more than offset by lower pricing and negative unit mix.
Now while being down 3% is a great improvement over the third quarter year-to-date results of down 20% the main drag continued to be our wind business which accounted for $41 million of the $44 million year-over-year op profit decrease.
And I'll cover some more of the dynamics on the wind business for 2012 on the next page.
For Oil &amp; Gas orders of $4.7 billion were up 34%.
Equipment orders of $2.4 billion were up 40% driven by the acquisitions plus strong refinery and petrochemical orders.
Service orders of $2.3 billion were up 29% on strong drilling and production activity.
Oil &amp; Gas orders price index was a positive 2/10 in the quarter.
Revenue of $4.1 billion was up 38% again driven by the impact of the acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions the revenue was up 6%.
Segment profit of $630 million was up 12%.
That's driven by the acquisitions plus strong volume partially offset by negative productivity across the business.
So overall when you look at Energy Infrastructure a significantly improved earnings profile as we exit 2011.
Now I thought itd be helpful to give you a little more detail on the Energy plan for 2012.
On this chart we ended the year with $6.7 billion of op profit.
Our plan is to grow double digit 2012 and you can see the drivers on the right side.
First we have an incredibly strong equipment backlog.
Energy equipment orders of $25.5 billion were up 39% last year.
We're planning on double-digit growth in the equipment deliveries and you can see the huge growth in wind and aero volume down on the bottom left that's in the business plan for 2012.
For services our service orders were $22.8 billion up 9% for 2011.
Our service backlog stands at $50 billion.
So we should expect a good services year in Energy.
We invested a lot in new products and in growth.
Weve peaked in terms of our program and growth investments as a percent of revenue.
So that's not going to be a drag on margins for Energy and we'll get a full year of the acquisition earnings.
So those 4 factors more than offset the price pressure that we already have in the backlog and that we've talked about quite a bit.
So the Energy teams work through the toughest part of the earnings cycle mainly driven by the 2011 wind margin declines and we're looking forward to delivering double-digit earnings growth in 2012.
Next is Aviation.
The Aviation team had another solid quarter in the fourth quarter.
Orders of $6.9 billion were up 18%.
Commercial engine orders of $3.3 billion were up 67% driven by the GE90.
Military engine orders of $402 million were up 53% driven by foreign military orders.
Equipment orders price was up 1.9% and we ended the quarter with a backlog of $22.5 million up 12% versus last year.
Service orders of $2.7 billion were down 9%.
Military services were down 41% driven by lower F110 spares.
And Commercial Services were up 1% driven by higher overall activity -- overhaul activity partially offset by a lower spares rate.
The fourth quarter spares order rate was $22.3 million a day down 11% and that reflects the aggressive purchasing that we saw in the third quarter in advance of the November price increase.
If you look at the total year average daily order rate for our spares it was $24.7 million up 13% over 2010 and the team feels very confident about the current spares rate and how they're doing in the marketplace commercially.
Revenue of $4.9 billion that was up 2% driven by equipment up 3% and services up 2%.
We shipped 518 commercial engines in the quarter.
That was down 7 engines from last year but revenues were up 10% on more GE90 units and we shipped 34 GEnx units in the quarter.
Segment profit of $850 million was up 4%.
That's driven by the strong volume and the positive value gap in the business.
On the right side Transportation.
The Transportation team continued delivering strong results in the fourth quarter.
Orders of $1.2 billion were down 11%.
That's driven by the tough comparisons.
Equipment orders of $500 million were down 43% because of no repeat of last year's $550 million multiyear orders.
So the orders still in the backlog but it's a tough comparison.
Service orders of $739 million were up 57%.
That's driven by the growth in our long-term service agreements and orders pricing for Transportation was up 1.2%.
Revenue in the quarter $1.5 billion was up 43% driven by all the strong volume.
We shipped 210 locomotives domestically versus 86 in the fourth quarter last year.
We shipped 48 international units versus 30 last year and mining revenues were also up almost 40% on higher volume.
Service revenues were up over 30% on strong long-term agreement.
Performance and segment profit of $226 million was up more than 200% driven by all that strong volume and the services delivery.
Next is Healthcare.
We did see a slowdown in the developed markets in Q4 for Healthcare.
Orders of $5.2 billion were flat.
Equipment orders of $3.2 billion were up 1%.
Diagnostic Imaging overall globally was down 2%.
Clinical Systems was up 5%.
Life Sciences was up 3%.
If you go by geography U.S.
Equipment was down 7% and non-U.S.
Equipment was up 6% and here are some of the pieces.
Europe was down 13%.
That was the toughest market.
China was up 29%.
India was up 20%.
Latin America was up 6%.
Service orders of $2.1 billion were down 1% and the total orders price for the business was down 1.9%.
Revenue of $5.2 billion was up 1%.
That was really driven by the emerging markets which were up 16% partially offset by the declines in Europe and the U.S.
Segment profit of $953 million was down 5% as the benefits of the higher volume and productivity were more than offset by negative pricing and the continued investments we're making in the new business like Intel Home Health JV and also new products.
On the right side of the page H&amp;BS had another tough quarter.
Revenues of $2.2 billion were down 4%.
Segment profit of $82 million was down 41%.
These results were driven by appliances.
The domestic market was down 12% units in the quarter.
We gained 7/10 point of share in the quarter but the inflation we saw was only partially offset by pricing resulting in the overall segment profit decline.
Lighting revenues were down 1% driven by Europe and Intelligent Platforms revenues were up 4% driven by strong software growth.
And let me shift to GE Capital.
Mike Neal and the Capital team had a really good quarter.
Revenues of $10.7 billion were down 9% in line with our NE shrinkage plus the impact of the fewer days.
Pretax and after-tax earnings continue to rebound.
On the right side asset quality metrics showed continued improvements or stability.
We had $49 billion of volume in the quarter which was up 13% from Q3.
Our margins came in at 5.4% for the year.
We continue to beat our ending investment targets and there's a lot more information about GE Capital in the supplemental charts on reserve coverage in non-earnings that we posted this morning.
So just a few highlights by business.
I'll start with Consumer.
The Consumer business had another positive earnings quarter.
We ended the year with assets of $139 billion.
That was down 6%.
Net income of $575 million was up 5% and that was driven by the improved credit costs.
U.S.
Retail Finance had a great quarter.
They earned $463 million which was up 29% driven by some acquisitions.
We added some portfolios and also lowered credit costs.
The U.S.
Retail Finance volume was strong.
It was up 3% over last year and it was up 14% versus the third quarter.
For Europe we had net income of $111 million.
That was down 35% but it was driven by not having the Garanti earnings that we used to have since we sold our stake there.
We also had $63 million of after-tax impairments on our Greek bonds and that brings the net book value of our Greek holdings down to about $74 million.
Our U.K.
Home Lending business earned $89 million in the quarter good performance on asset quality.
30-day delinquencies were down 97 basis points versus Q3.
Our owned real estate stock was down to 461 houses and that's the lowest we've had since 2005.
And on the houses that we did repossess and sold we realized 115% of the carrying value on our sales in the fourth quarter so pretty good marks and valuation.
Next is Real Estate.
Commercial Real Estate had another quarter with significant improvements over last year.
Assets of $61 billion were down $12 billion or 16% versus last year and they were also down $4 billion or 6% versus the third quarter.
So we continue to work this book down.
The business ended Q4 with $153 million of losses after tax.
That was $256 million better than last year.
During the quarter we incurred $64 million of after-tax credit costs and $168 million of after-tax marks and impairments.
And also during the quarter a bright spot I'd say we sold 157 properties for $1.9 billion realizing $132 million in after-tax gains.
So there -- as you see in the press there is more liquidity in the commercial real estate market and our business is benefiting from that.
As Jeff mentioned on the front page our unrealized loss on the equity portfolio was down to $2.6 billion and the outlook is that Real Estate is going to continue to deliver a strong improved performance in 2012.
Commercial Lending &amp; Leasing also had another strong quarter.
Assets of $194 billion were down 4% due to the run-off of some non-core assets and dispositions.
Net income of $777 million was up 37%.
That's driven by lower losses and higher core income.
Americas net income of $570 million was up 42% driven by lower credit costs and that's their best quarter that they've had in 4 years.
Europe and Asia were both down a bit driven by lower assets.
GECAS.
GECAS fourth quarter is actually better than it looks.
You can see here net income of $315 million is reported down 27% but that included the impact last year of $167 million of tax benefits from the IRS settlement we had last year in the fourth quarter.
There were no such benefits allocated to GECAS this year.
So if you look on a normalized basis net earnings would have been about 19% up driven by continued improvements in core margin.
Asset quality remained strong here.
We ended the quarter -- ended the year with 2 aircraft on the ground so another good year for GECAS.
And Energy Financial Services also had a strong quarter.
Earnings of $110 million were up 234% driven by higher core income and higher gains.
So overall another very strong performance by GE Capital and let me turn it back to Jeff.
Hey great Keith.
Thanks.
For 2012 we're confirming our earnings framework.
Strong orders and rebounding margins support double-digit industrial growth.
Better margins improving commercial real estate and lower losses support double-digit capital growth.
Corporate cost and CFOA are in line with our December meeting.
Industrial organic growth is well-positioned to expand by 5% to 10%.
Capital revenue will be below our December meeting based on lower ENI.
So we close here with momentum towards these results and goals that we have for 2012.
To conclude we're positioned I think for strong execution in '12.
Organic growth looks solid with a $200 billion backlog.
Margins are improving fueled by productivity programs and cost actions.
Our industrial returns will exceed 15%.
We're positioned to deliver on the 2 areas most important to investors double-digit industrial earnings growth with higher margins and double-digit capital earnings growth with the goal of restarting the GE Capital dividend to GE.
So it's a good quarter could have been even better and that's encouraging for 2012.
So I like our momentum and really we feel good about where we are and what we can get done in 2012.
So Trevor with that let's -- back over to you.
Thanks Jeff and Keith.
Chanel we're ready to take questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Davis from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Guys can you talk about your confidence in your margin guide in Energy? And you've been talking about 50 basis points but you put up a pretty big 4Q which raises the base for 2011 and then you also raised your gas turbine shipments from 130 -- well you were at 128 last quarter now you're saying 137.
So your mix shift is turning a little bit more negative and your base is higher.
So just talk about that 50 basis points because that's a pretty big movement in our model.
Well I think I'll take a shot at it and let Jeff also add to it Scott.
I think if you look at the drag that we've had in Energy this year and the drag that we've had for the whole company it's been driven by our investments in R&amp;D and global.
And as we've said we've taken that and weve got it in the run rate and that's not going to continue to be a drag.
That was -- for the fourth quarter it was 0.09 point on the whole company and for Energy it was a similar result.
The second drag that we've had in 2010 that you'd expect were the acquisitions.
We've acquired these companies.
We've only started to really integrate them.
We don't have a full year.
That was 0.5 point of drag on the company in the fourth quarter and our expectation is that we continue to get improvements in those acquisitions.
We've got a lot of people working on both the top line and the operating synergies and so that is another factor that we've got to work.
And then finally the one drag that was just on the whole company all year long was wind.
On the totally year it was 0.8 point for the whole company.
And as you can see our wind expectation is that we're going to have a significant amount of volume.
It's certainly not going to be an operating profit dollar drag like we saw in 2011.
I mean it was close to $700 million of operating profit drag dollars in 2011 on this business.
We don't expect anything like that.
We expect actually to have an improvement in the wind performance in 2012 and we're going to have to work the mix issue associated with that but there's a lot of good factors.
The services business has an incredible backlog.
We've got to execute in businesses like the Oil &amp; Gas business on large projects so make sure we don't have any cost or quality issues or things like that and the whole team is focused on it.
So it's important to us.
It's important to investors.
We have some good factors that don't repeat from 2011 that were headwinds that don't repeat as headwinds but we need to execute.
There's no question about it Scott.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just as a follow-up Keith for you I'm calc-ing out about $10 billion of potential dry powder you'll have in 2012 to either buy back stock or do deals or dividend whatever kind of you guys decide.
I mean I guess first -- my first question is kind of does that $10 billion kind of pass your sniff test and b have your priorities to deploy that cash changed at all since your Analyst Day in December? Well I think 2012 we expect to have growth in cash flow from our Industrial business.
As you know we ended the year at $12 billion.
We expect that to grow in 2012.
We already have increased the dividend for 2012 as you saw.
Our expectation is that we're going to have a balanced capital allocation plan between buyback and M&amp;A.
We're going to look at opportunities and see what we do.
I think to get to a number like you're talking about we really do need first of all the capital dividend.
And we would expect that over time we're going to get excess capital out of capital not just the 45% earnings and we have to get some of that.
Other thing that I would say is right now we're still planning on keeping about $8 billion of cash at the parent.
We ended the year a little bit above that number just from a safe and secure and how we manage the company for all sorts of unforeseen risks.
So I'd factor that into your math but we expect to have a good cash year and have a good capital allocation year.
I think we'll have available cash in line with what we said in December.
We've got a $200 billion backlog.
We don't need -- really we don't need acquisitions.
I wouldn't look for us to do a big acquisition.
We've got a pretty full pipeline of new products and so I think the emphasis on dividend reducing the float over time those take a very high priority.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So you guys gave us the service margin of 28.5%.
I think you've given us kind of a number that's close to that in the past.
I don't know what that margin refers to.
There's a lot of different numbers that you refer to when you say margin.
But backing into what the equipment margin is kind of gets me to a low single-digit number.
Is that correct way to look at it? Yes equipment margins are in that range.
Research Division</strong> Historically how high have those margins gotten? Obviously exclude the gas turbine bubble they have been higher historically correct? Sure.
When you're -- if we can get to those kind of levels the incremental margin associated with the gas turbine business was fantastic back in the late...
Research Division</strong> Well I guess excluding that though.
Well I think if we -- right now you're looking at a thermal business that is -- the market actually is pretty good globally.
50 gas turbine orders in the fourth quarter is pretty good but there's still excess capacity.
I think if you see a tightening in that market you're going to be able to get incremental margins on the equipment side.
I think that's going to be a good factor for us.
But right now you're still seeing obviously price erosion when you look at the orders price index that we have but the commitment levels that we're seeing are starting to stabilize.
And I think Jeff said that'll roll into the end of '12 and into '13 at much better margins for us from an equipment perspective.
And Scott we ought to get improving equipment margins as part of the 50 basis points improvement in 2012 versus 2011.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So longer term you've got $60 billion-ish of revenue that's really sitting there dramatically kind of under-earning at this stage given the level of volume you're doing? I think there's another -- if you look theres another factor maybe to think about is Aviation.
We're really in the early launch phases around the GEnx and that will continue to improve as well.
We got to get up to the run rate in terms of the number of engines.
But clearly the launch engines are the worse ones in terms of cost plus price and we're going to work our way into in a different place in Aviation and GEnx will probably be one of the bigger factors.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then one more question just on Consumer.
It was kind of down sequentially.
Is that just some Europe headwind kind of flowing through? And I know the provision was also up a little bit on the GE Capital income statement.
Yes I think there -- the main thing in the quarter for consumer that I think about was the Greek bond impairment was in the Consumer segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because delinquencies non-earnings all kind of continue to head in the right direction.
Yes I think the main point we had in the quarter --  3Q to 4Q would be the Greek bonds.
The asset quality performance was good and you do put up a little bit of provision as we had asset growth Steve for 3Q to 4Q.
The next question comes from Steven Winoker Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So just a first question on the reorganization of GECS and GECC into GE Capital.
When you think about how the Fed is looking at -- or when you think about how you would think about sort of what makes sense in terms of the right entity we've talked about the difference in coverage and reserves for GECC versus GECS.
Is there any reason to believe this wouldn't make it more likely that GECS would be the entity to look at as opposed to GECC? Well exactly.
And I think all we're doing is sort of a reverse merger Steve.
If you look at what we're doing is we're putting GECS back under GECC.
So the total now will be GECS.
And if you look at our current reporting when you see things like Tier 1 capital at 9.9% for GE Capital Services going forward that will be 9.9% for GE Capital.
We're going to have one entity and it's going to be the top level but we're going to call it GE Capital.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So this essentially removes even the possibility that GECC would have been something that regulators might have considered? That's right.
I think at the end of the day our expectations were and it hasn't been finally decided were that the total Financial Services assets of the company would be regulated.
And this isn't something the Fed made us do but I think it does simplify everything and make it clearer for investors.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you said this is not something that was based on input from regulators? That's correct.
No this goes back almost 20 years Steve and it's just -- I think it just simplifies it for our equity investors and for our bondholders.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about lower debt issuance.
Can you quantify that a little bit? Well we'll have to see how we go through the year.
We gave a range of $425 million to $440 million.
As we go through the year we'll look at the composition.
Will we be able to -- I want to see how the long-term debt markets look.
We want to look at CP.
We'll look at alternative funding.
It's going to depend upon those factors.
But in total if you got all the way down to the $425 million you'd expect to have a combination of lower CP and long-term financing.
And the margins Steve are still good.
The earning power is still good.
I think what we've said to you guys is we've got more than $70 billion of what we call red assets.
The market in the U.S.
is healthy for that kind of stuff.
So I think that's -- we're just confident that -- in our earnings power and the ENI progress I think is a good thing for investors.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just one final one.
15 months ago or so when you took the last Shinsei reserve I think we all asked the question of how do we know that that was the right number and that that was sort of it and we talked about frequency and severity.
How do we know that this is the right number and that this is it? Well it's our best estimate.
You're right.
We're dealing with a tail of a liability here that's got a lot of volatility.
I think the Takefuji bankruptcy wasn't something that we foresaw when we put up that reserve 15 months ago.
This is our first adjustment in 15 months.
We've done a lot of statistical analysis and we've got a dedicated team on the ground managing these claims.
It is our best estimate as of today based on the information we have on both claims volume and severity and we're just going to have to continue to watch it.
I think...
And the claims volume is heading down.
The claims volume is going down and December was better than what we had forecast a little bit.
But it's just such a long-tail liability and we're just going to have to watch it.
Your next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You talk about Keith you talk about some push-outs in engine I think mainly in winds.
Can you maybe just quantify that versus the September plan? And is there any evidence that there's more project push-outs? Well from September when we laid out the Energy goals and where we were heading into the year I'd say there's a number of factors that affected our Energy revenue.
We had about $400 million that I would put in the push-out category.
About half of that is wind.
We had wind units in Canada that didn't get the revenue that we thought we were going to get that will come in '12.
And we also had some push-outs on installations for about another 200.
So there's about $400 million of things that we didn't record that we thought we were going to and that moved into the next year.
We had about $200 million from FX from the beginning of the quarter.
The dollar was much stronger than we thought so that impacted a little bit versus our September estimate.
And we had some weakness in our industrial systems business more than we thought probably another $100 million.
So those are kind of the things that we see versus where we were in September in the Energy business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's really helpful.
And then on the Energy pricing it looks like it ticked down again versus 3Q.
I think 3Q was down 1.8% and last quarter it was down 4.4% I think you said Keith? Say the numbers you had again.
Research Division</strong> I think it was 1.8% last quarter on Energy equipment orders pricing and this quarter it was 4.4%? Yes.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Does that make the goal of keeping Energy margins flat next year more difficult? Well we've considered that and what we put together is our plan.
I think the team does have to manage through that margin pressure as we showed you on the chart for 2012.
We're going to have to have good execution on inflation and deflation and global sourcing.
We've got to grow our service business and we've got to have good cost of quality and execution on our projects but we have factored that in.
I mean our guys when we put the plan together that's not worse than what we're expecting but it is pressure obviously in 2012 and we think we've accounted for it.
This is a big deal getting Energy up to positive margins.
So just like Scott said and what you said I mean this is something the team is really focused on.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then finally obviously the dealings and what you can [ph] say about the Fed's review but it sounds like they started off understanding the business and understanding the funding model can you just may be give some color in terms of where they're focusing right now? Sure.
They've been with us for around 6 months now the Fed.
I think without any specifics they're working on the things you'd expect them to be working on.
They're looking at our risk systems and risk teams our risk models.
They're looking at our capital levels.
They're looking at our liquidity and our liquidity risk management.
They're -- we're working cooperatively with them.
We're in a dialogue.
They know wed like to restart the dividend and we have a process going on to review what they need to be able to help make a decision on that and it's going at their pace I would say.
So it's a lot of work.
It's a ton of oversight and we're committed to working constructively with them.
And at the end of the day as soon as we can give you more information about that we will.
Our macro benchmarks look pretty good I mean when you look at our Tier 1 capital ratios and things like that.
So I think we're pleased with how we finished the year.
We're pleased with the operating results at GE Capital and ultimately that's the proof of the pudding ultimately.
So that's what we want to focus on.
We're in a process that we just don't control it.
We're working as hard as we can and we'll give you as much as we can when we can.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes my first question was in terms of the Energy business you and Alstom have both had decent orders in that for the December quarter.
Their outlook's fairly positive for March as well.
But looking at your gas turbine volumes you had an acceleration in the decline in thermal pricing in Q4 versus Q3.
So I wondered if there's a sense in which although on the surface sort of infrastructure projects are going ahead you're actually finding that there are some delays going on and so you priced maybe slightly more cheaper than normal just to make sure you got decent volumes in Q4 in terms of order intake because I think your thermal pricing was down in Q3 on the order side about 7 or 8 and now its down around 12.
Julian some of this is just geographic mix of where the orders come from.
I think doubting [ph] tends to be slightly lower priced and there was some big orders there in the quarter stuff like that.
But again I'd go back to what we said in the past which is first we start with commitments then we go to orders.
I'd say the pricing in commitments seems to be stabilizing.
That tends to be the leading indicator of pricing But I think the difference between Q3 and Q4 is as much mix driven as it is any more intensity in the marketplace.
And as Keith said earlier there's a lot of interest.
There's a lot of interest in gas turbines really on a global basis.
Of the 50 orders that we took in Q4 I think only 2 were in the U.S.
something like that.
So I mean we haven't even really seen much out of the U.S.
yet.
So I'd say the commitment is a good leading indicator for '13 and what we're seeing in '12 is no different than what we really expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on Healthcare.
The profits are down there and I was intrigued to see the U.S.
the comments around the U.S.
being fairly weak.
And I guess Philips said the U.S.
was good for them obviously with a very weak Europe though.
So I guess how confident are you that Healthcare profits can grow in '12 given you've got quite a high revenue growth base from the first half of 2011? And obviously there's sort of persistent price deflation just by nature in the Healthcare market.
When you look at the market in Q3 which is the last time we really have Neiman [ph] data it was I think flat to up a couple points.
We gained...
About 3 points.
A couple of points of share or 3 points a share in Q3.
So we haven't really seen the market data yet in the U.S.
Our expectation for the U.S.
market is kind of flattish in 2012 and that's kind of what we're building -- have built our plan around.
We're going to restructure Europe which has already begun.
We've got excellent emerging market revenue growth which I think is both profitable and kind of fuels the earnings and then Life Sciences remain strong.
So our target for Healthcare is revenue in the single-digit range and earnings in the single-digit range for next year and we didnt see anything as we closed the year that says that shouldn't be where the goals remain.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So can I ask you to fill out I guess the 50 gas turbines orders a little more? You said a big Saudi very little U.S.
maybe just a little bit more how that shakes out and what you're seeing in the different global markets? And do you expect that mix to change in '12? Boy it's incredibly spread out Shannon.
We had 4 in Australia 1 in Canada 4 in China 1 in Colombia 6 in Egypt 5 in Iraq 1 in Japan 1 in Korea 2 in Russia 13 in Saudi Arabia.
I mean it's just spread out.
It's global activity and our teams are covering it.
I think Shannon gas is really the fuel of choice.
I would say that with more confidence today than even in the past and the U.S.
hasn't really started yet.
So someday there's going to be a U.S.
market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how about just a little bit more on Europe? I mean you mentioned seeing more weakness in December.
I mean what's the pace of weakening that you're seeing? Are you seeing sort of things accelerate to the downside or maybe a little color on what you're seeing over the last 6 weeks or so? I think the one that you really saw it directly was in Healthcare.
Europe was soft.
Our orders in Healthcare were down 10% in the fourth quarter.
Our revenues were down 7%.
That's consistent with the framework Jeff talked about in Healthcare.
But when you're dealing with governments and reimbursements and austerity programs that's probably what we expect to see.
Across GE Capital we actually had pretty good performance.
Our asset quality metrics across Europe across both commercial and Consumer business has improved.
In the quarter on delinquency 30-day delinquencies and non-earnings so the team there continues to do a job managing their books.
So I think Healthcare is the one we saw.
We saw a little bit in industrial systems but not more than what we expected.
I don't think Europe was really worse than what we expected.
I think we're preparing for a recession and that's what we expect.
And I think encouragingly it looks like there's more liquidity in the market now than there probably was even 30 days ago but we'll see how it all shakes out.
We're ready for a tough environment.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Was hoping we could circle back to the newer lower target for ENI at GE Capital.
And I know that's a welcome news on a risk management standpoint and you hinted about it in the December meeting.
The fact you're not lowering any of the framework for GE Capital suggests that you -- some of this progress on cutting the balance sheet debt would come from the non-core assets and Jeff you hinted as said there's more open or willing market for that.
Could you just take us through where the cutting and the reduction might come from in the timeframe? First thing I would say the revenue for Capital in '12 again with lower ENI will probably be down.
And it's always hard to forecast revenue in GE Capital but that's the one correction I'd make.
I think earnings we think are still on track.
But I think one of the big ones is what Keith talks about in Commercial Real Estate.
I mean there's just a lot more liquidity for Commercial Real Estate.
I think the guys were down for the year almost more than $10 billion in ENI for the year.
So I think you could see that very well in Commercial Real Estate.
And then I think there's just some other portfolios that are small in the U.S.
that we think are going to be able to whittle away at the red assets.
At the same time incoming margins remain good and we've got a good origination team.
So we think we can grow where we want to grow and continue to execute on the red asset plan.
The plan we laid out Deane as Jeff said was to lower the red assets.
If you look at 2011 our ending net investment on a reported basis was down $26 billion.
It's down $32 billion if you include things that end up getting transferred into disc operations discontinued operations and is taken out of the original number.
So $32 billion last year of shrinkage $27 billion of that came from what we considered red assets and we still got $80 billion of red assets.
So I think the team is going to continue to run that off and we're going to continue to invest in the green assets.
And just based on the fact that we're $20 billion ahead of plan on the anti-shrinkage plan our reality is probably in 2012 we're going to be smaller.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Is there any change in the expected contribution from GE Capital to earnings still that 30% to 40% and likely at the lower end? I'd keep it there for now yes.
I mean the fourth quarter was about 40%.
That's where we are right now on a run rate kind of so you've got to -- we'll have to see how we do in 2012 but we're not changing that target.
I'd keep it there for now.
Again I'd come back Deane and say the strategic priority job one for the GE team in 2012 is to grow the Industrial earnings more than 10% and that in the end is kind of a laser-like focus that we've got and I like the backlog we have to do it with.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just last question for me is on cash flow.
A bit stronger than what we were looking for in the fourth quarter.
We had expected a little bit more of a working capital build.
Were the push-outs the reason you didn't have to do that? Or just true that up for us if you could.
Well probably the -- your expectation came with the fact that through the 3 quarters we had built some inventory and we had a little more working capital than we wanted in our plan.
And we did a -- the teams did a great job in the fourth quarter drawing down that inventory.
Our working capital use for the year was only $700 million on double-digit revenue growth and we increased our turnover by 0.10 point.
So the teams did do a good job on working capital and I think it was -- we were behind at the end of third quarter year-to-date and we caught up and actually exceeded where we're expected to be in the fourth quarter.
So progress was down a little over $1 billion and we only used $700 million of working capital while growing the Industrial business 14%.
It was a pretty good year.
Our next question comes from Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to continue down this path of changes to the 2012 outlook at the margin relative to December and maybe start over on the Capital side.
Keith I wonder did the pre-provision performance at Capital in the fourth quarter how did that perform versus your expectations? Capital came in a little better than we wanted in total.
I don't have any specifics around pre-provision that came to mind in getting ready for today Terry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so in terms of the deltas...
I hope it's specific [ph] to what you're looking for.
Research Division</strong> No just in terms of the deltas for '12 I mean beyond the faster turnover of the red assets areas for upside for the capital framework I'm curious about.
Sure.
If you look at -- there really hasn't been a change in the fourth quarter in that.
As Jeff said the only change would be we'll probably have revenue be a little lower but you look the margins are good.
We're going to have continued significant improvements in Real Estate.
That's our expectation.
Losses will be slightly better.
They're close to the run rate.
Those will be some of the bigger drivers that we expect in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'll take a shot at this one more shot at this Energy horse here.
The lower U.S.
natural gas prices impact on your short-cycle Oil &amp; Gas business I know it's not a big part of the company but pretty high margins there.
What are you seeing in terms of that risk element? No I haven't seen anything specifically.
The lower natural gas prices make an attractive fuel obviously...
Research Division</strong> Maybe more on the drilling side.
Well the drilling and production we've had tremendous service orders that I saw in the quarter.
I didn't see anything unusual in the equipment side.
Research Division</strong> On the equipment side that's helpful.
We're still working on integrating everything we did with Wood Group and that gives us much more presence on the land-based drilling and production but I didn't see anything unusual in the order base.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple points of clarification.
On your comments on the Fed review obviously tough to characterize.
But I guess can one interpret that as timing perhaps has shifted a little further out in terms of when you might anticipate things coming to a conclusion there? Is that fair? Well what did we want? We wanted to do the dividend starting with the year and as a result of being with the Fed we haven't been able to do that and it's really just something we don't control.
I really haven't ever laid out a timing and they haven't given us a timing.
We just are going to continue to work with them.
Our goal is to do the dividend in 2012.
We haven't changed that goal and we think we're going to be able to achieve what we said but the timing is -- we haven't given one and it hasn't changed for us.
We're just working with them constructively.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly any other items you want to call out for people to note with regards to the 1Q year-over-year comparisons? You called out the days issues.
That's pretty clear.
Anything else that you want to call out there? For instance you saw only $0.03 of restructuring in 4Q you're talking about a range of $0.03 to $0.04.
Do you have a heavier restructure in the fourth -- in the first quarter of '12 over '11? Any other items like that you want call out? I think if I look at first quarter alone I don't see anything unusual in this year's first quarter '11.
If you look at last year you've got to remember we had the NBCU gain and then in Capital we had the large gain from the Garanti sale.
So I think those are things that we're working through comparing to.
But in this year I don't have anything that I would call out.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Just a little more detail on Energy pricing if we could.
Jeff could you elaborate a little bit on your comment about things firming up in commitments? And when would you expect price on orders to inflect? Do you think that is a second half '12 event? So again Jeff I think the -- when we look at commitments the pricing has stabilized.
That tends to be let's say anywhere from a 6-month to an 18-month cycle.
So I think the lead indicators suggest that the equipment pricing as it goes into orders is going to start stabilizing and then it goes from orders to revenue.
So that's not necessarily a different scenario than what we've talked about in the past I don't think.
Right.
And Keith I may have missed it but can you give us the price in revenues in the quarter in Energy thermal renewables all in? Well the total was down 1%.
I don't have the split between the pieces.
The total for Energy selling price was 1% down.
For the company it was 0.5% down in total.
Our next question comes from Christopher Glynn from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Looking through the initial resumption of GE Capital dividend but noting the ENI targets coming down is it reasonable to expect that future GE Capital payout ratio could be well above the historical payout ratios? Well our goal that we've laid out is that we'd like to have GE Capital pay the same percent of its earnings that GE pays to its shareholders.
So we're at about a 45% payout ratio and that would be our goal.
Now sometimes in the Financial Services world the discussion is that there's a 33% or 30% payout ratio at the banks but there's also buybacks on top of that.
GE Capital doesn't have that equivalent of a buyback.
So I think that's a reasonable expectation.
That's what we're working on is to start with a 45% of GE Capital's earnings back to the parent which would be above historical.
The second thing that I think that we're thinking about is as we shrink GE Capital as we've built up the capital base we have excess capital we believe on top of whatever the target of capital that regulators are going to require for Tier 1 for a very large important financial institution.
We haven't formally been notified that we're a SIFI.
We aren't under anybody's Basel framework yet but we're reporting like we will be and we believe we have capital levels that will exceed what the targets are that well be -- the banks will be held to.
And our objective is as we shrink GE Capital the dividend that excess capital back to the parent.
And over the next several years that could be several billions of dollars.
So our -- that's our goal.
We'll have to see how we do as we work with the Fed but that's our goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And next question answer might be obvious but I'll ask it anyway.
Are you buying any properties in CRE? We're not buying any properties.
We have done some debt investing but we're not buying any properties.
We're running the equity book down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly with the double-digits earnings framework for both capital and industrial are you biased to one exceeding the other or too close to call? No bias.
We want to execute well and have a good year.
Our next question comes from Jason Feldman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So on the Energy service front earlier this year the federal court stated that the CSAPR rules which we had expected to shift more fuel switching from coal to gas.
Does that impact your outlook on the service side at all for this year? I couldn't tell you.
I am not familiar with that and I'd have to get -- we'll have to get back to you on that Jason.
I do think the gas power is running harder.
There's no doubt about it but I don't know that that specific change is material in the way we think about financials for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And balance of plant revenues come up when we're talking about the Energy margins I think the last 2 quarters.
Last quarter it was a bit of a headwind or maybe more than a bit of a headwind.
This quarter it sounds like a year-over-year comp basis it actually helped you.
Can you give us a little bit more quantification of how much of a difference that made? And is that just kind of volatility that we just have to live with given the nature of the business? The only thing I have is that we're about $100 million lower on balance of plant in the quarter.
So obviously there is no margin really associated with that.
It did help the margin rates a little bit but it also contributes to lower revenue.
So that's the only number I had.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Langenberg of Langenberg &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
The first one is with respect to the merger of GE Capital GECC you're not a company that tends to let things lay for like 20 years.
So until recently there was a reason to have that structure.
Just touch on what operational and/or tax benefits are -- have gone away with going from 2 to 1 2 structures to 1? And then the second part is how much cost out do you think you can get to offset the $300 million of additional spending you need to do in the new financial world? That's the first question.
Well let me start with the first one.
There was a good logic for GE Capital Services.
We had a broker-dealer Kidder Peabody.
And we had significant insurance operations both what is now Genworth that we call GEFA and also ERC.
So the insurance operations the reinsurance operations and the Kidder Peabody were originally under GECS on the other side of the ownership and then GECC was on the other side of -- as part of the assets of GE Capital Services.
But the point is that over time as we sold all the insurance businesses as we got out of the Kidder and the broker-dealer really the difference between GECS and GECC is almost insignificant.
We have about $30 billion of investment securities and we'll have the GE Capital team Mike Neal and Jeff Bornstein and Bill Cary and those guys manage that.
Now there's an insignificant change in our tax outlook as a result of this merger.
So really it's just a collapse of 2 SEC registrants and over time it had a purpose and today it has less of a purpose and actually just provides kind of confusion.
In terms of costs its -- the GE Capital team's done a great job on SG&amp;A.
Our SG&amp;A was actually down in 2011 despite the fact that we're investing like crazy on the regulatory side.
So they're getting good productivity in their back office and they continue to do a good job managing their costs.
LLC</strong> And so in terms of collapsing 2 into 1 is there a significant incremental cost to come out once the 2 structures go away? No I think it's really in some of the accounting consolidation and reporting it'll simplify their life but there's not a big cost structure at GECS.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a last question.
With aerospace you called out some pre-buy in the third quarter which is not something Id really heard about from other aerospace players.
I mean just kind of looking at it simplistically are you suggesting that there's a good $250 million of pre-buy in the third quarter on the aerospace side? It would have been orders for spare parts.
I don't you think that would have showed up in their cash flow yet their ordering.
So we can -- we report our average daily order rate.
I can't tell you what the timing of when they actually took that was but it was $29 million a day or something $27 million a day in the third quarter up 20%.
We didn't expect it to be that high and basically they're just getting in in advance of our November price increase.
So in terms of when they actually took that material that's not something I have.
And [indiscernible] in the third quarter we're nowhere near as high as that.
So it really would have been ordering.
Our next question comes from John Inch with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Keith so just to clarify so do any of the quarters in '12 have this days issue as it pertains to the compares versus '11? I'm just going back to Terry's question.
I asked the same question yesterday and Ive been assured that we're on a normal calendar comparison in 2012.
Happy to report John.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Right.
No that clears up that.
Going back to the restructuring again I dont want to split hairs.
I thought the fourth quarter was maybe going to be $0.03 to $0.04 you said $0.02.
Does that imply that there is sort of front-loaded restructuring this year? And maybe Keith if you could scope out sort of what your thoughts are vis-a-vis restructuring in Europe.
I mean I know you talked about Healthcare restructuring but is half of this going to be Europe front-half weighted just anything you could maybe call out? Sure.
I would say first of all what we talked about in December we have a category restructuring and other charges that was going to be about $0.03 and that's $0.03 to $0.04 and we did $0.03.
It's not that we really pushed anything out.
We work with the teams on what projects can they identify that have a good payback and can they execute? And we ended up with the projects we identified.
I would say over half of the projects that we funded in the fourth quarter are related to Europe in Healthcare and Energy.
And if you look at going forward in 2012 and our plan we've -- on a normal quarter we're somewhere around $100 million of restructuring in our quarter and our plan is kind of built assuming that type of run rate.
Now if we have more good projects we may pull some in.
We'll reserve the right.
But just based from a planning and how we talked about that $3 billion of costs in the corporate line that's how you should think about it John.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So kind of linearly spread throughout the year then? So far yes.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly Keith the provisions for the capital were relatively flat sequentially.
What's been happening to provisions in Europe and maybe you could give us just -- I didn't see it in the supplemental.
What was the ending asset financial asset base in Europe? I think it was $132 million or something in the third quarter? I think Europe was down a little bit.
I don't have the exact number.
We'll get it to you and I don't separate provisions by region.
I have it by business.
Provisions were -- if you look reserves came down about $300 million.
Some of that was write-offs greater than provisions some of that was FX and provisions were flat in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So the question is really you're not really seeing incremental losses associated with European...
Well actually the asset quality was actually better.
The only thing in Europe that we -- was unusual I would say was the 2 things.
One is the Greek bonds and the second thing we put up some money in Hungary for mortgages.
We have no more questions.
I will turn it back over to you Trevor.
Thanks Chanel.
Five wrap-up comments to close here.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today.
Two announcements to make.
First we will host our Global Growth Investor Meeting on March 6 and 7 in Rio de Janeiro Brazil.
We hope you can join us.
We'll have a full agenda that we'll be getting out next week on that and it's pretty packed.
So we hope to see everybody there.
Second our first quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be on April 20.
As always we'll be available to take your questions.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] My name is Chanel and I'll be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanel.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We're pleased to host today's first quarter 2012 earnings webcast.
Regarding the materials for the webcast we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast.
Slides are available for download and printing on our website www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of the presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
Now I'd like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great Trevor.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks.
This year we outlined 2 important catalysts for GE: double-digit earnings growth in Industrial; and a dividend from GE Capital pending Fed review.
In the first quarter our Industrial business has achieved a 10% earnings growth and GE Capital is exceeding our expectations so we really had a good quarter.
Externally global markets are improving but volatility remains.
Infrastructure demand is generally healthy and the U.S.
is better.
We're watching Europe with caution.
We had the strongest Industrial growth performance since the crisis: 20% orders growth 11% organic revenue growth and 16% expansion in growth markets.
GE Capital grew by 27% excluding the impact of the Garanti gain.
Real Estate turned positive in the quarter which is a positive sign for the year and we ended the quarter with lots of cash and strong cash flow.
Our Tier 1 common ratio is 10.4% a very healthy level.
And we remain on track to hit our margin target for the year.
So everything we saw in the first quarter supports double-digit earnings growth.
Orders were robust off a very high base.
Orders growth was broad-based.
Equipment was up 29% Service was up 11% emerging markets grew by 24% and organic orders growth was up 14%.
We're benefiting from several macro themes: global infrastructure investment healthcare access gas conversion and favorable transportation and energy markets.
Over the last 2 years we redeployed capital from NBC to Oil &amp; Gas.
This is paying off with a 64% growth in Oil &amp; Gas orders.
Orders pricing was positive which is a great sign for the future.
This is the highest first quarter orders in history.
It feels like we're outpacing the market gaining share and backlog ended at $201 billion another record.
As I said organic revenue growth was up 11% in the quarter very strong.
We had 4 or 5 businesses in 6 of 9 growth regions with 10%-plus organic growth.
China grew by 18% on track with our expectations.
Service growth was 11% which is up 8% organically and we're doing well in the marketplace.
Aviation is winning a lot of campaigns.
The GEnx is doing well.
The LEAP-X with applications on the A320neo 737 Max and C919 is also doing great.
The Qantas win is big for our Aviation business.
We're launching 71 new products in Healthcare versus 50 last year.
Our Energy product line is strong supporting 39% orders growth.
We're launching new products in our acquisitions which on balance are outperforming their plans.
Appliances is beginning to launch its Mission 1 products in 2Q with a new water heater and refrigerator.
Our investments in growth are really paying off.
We've always expected margins to ramp during the year.
Healthcare and Transportation have already begun to turn.
In the first quarter of '12 we had a negative impact of energy backlog pricing acquisitions and wind volume that moved from the second quarter to the first quarter.
However we see improvements in value gap acquisitions and easing R&amp;D spending as the year progresses.
And we will continue to drive productivity in restructuring programs particularly in Europe.
Over the past 5 years we've seen as much as a 200 basis point margin improvement from the first quarter to the total year.
So we see 50 basis points improvement as an important commitment for 2012 and 2013.
Cash and liquidity remain very strong.
Our CFOA grew by 22% in the quarter behind improved earnings and working capital performance.
We ended the quarter with $84 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
We're managing this CFOA growth despite having stronger equipment shipments and we expect CFOA to be strong for the year.
Also on GE Capital GE Capital had a very good quarter.
Our balance sheet is strong.
We have a 10.4% Tier 1 common ratio of 50 basis points from the fourth quarter '11 and our nonearnings are down $300 million.
Our liquidity is safe and sound.
Our commercial paper coverage is 2.5x and we have $76 billion of cash on the GE Capital balance sheet.
We're on track for our ENI goals.
We should hit our $425 billion ENI target for 2012.
We're reducing red assets like the Irish mortgages.
And Commercial Real Estate profitability in the quarter is really quite significant.
Finally we're able to originate profitable new business.
We feel great about expanding our net interest margins.
We're originating new business in excess of a 3% return on investment and our ongoing net income growing by 27% is a good sign.
The business is executing well.
Now over to Keith for an update on financials.
Thanks Jeff.
I'm going to start with the first quarter summary.
As you can see we had continuing operations revenues of $35.2 billion and that was reported down 8%.
This is the last quarter we're going to have to compare to the impact from NBCU.
So last year in the first quarter we owned NBC for one month and we had that revenue and we had the $3.6 billion pretax gain from the sale.
So if you adjust for NBC in the first quarter of last year that would give you a 4% growth on the $35 billion of revenue.
Industrial sales of $23.7 billion are up 7%.
I think a better reflection of our growth is down on the right side of the chart.
Without any impact from NBCU you can see the Industrial segment revenues were up 14%.
GE Capital revenues of $11.4 billion were down 12%.
If you look at Q1 last year we had the Garanti bank sale that was recorded in GE Capital.
If you exclude the impact of Garanti last year GE Capital revenues were down about 7% in line with the overall asset shrinkage.
Operating earnings at $3.6 billion were up 1%.
Operating earnings per share of $0.34 were up 3%.
And continuing earnings per share includes the impact of the nonoperating pension.
And net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations reflecting the $0.02 charge this year which I'll cover on the next page.
Cash of $2.1 billion for the quarter was very strong as Jeff covered.
On taxes the consolidated rate for the first quarter was 16%.
That was down slightly from 2011 excluding the impact of the high tax and NBCU gain.
If you look at the pieces the GE rate of 23% was 1 point higher than last year excluding the NBCU impact.
And we're forecasting a continuation of that low 20s rate for the rest of the year for GE Industrial.
The GE Capital rate of 9% is lower than the mid-teens range that we previously forecast.
As the quarter unfolded we identified additional international tax planning benefits and they're going to impact the GE Capital rate for the year.
So right now our forecast is about a 10% rate for the full year for GECC.
On the right side of the segment results Industrial revenues were up 14%.
Industrial segment profit was up 10% driven by double-digit growth in Transportation and Energy and Healthcare.
GE Capital earnings were reported at flat.
However they were up significantly excluding the impact to last year's Garanti gain and I'll show you how that affects GE Capital later at the GE Capital page.
So we'll go through each of the segments in more detail on a page here.
Before I get to the business results though here's the summary of other items from the first quarter.
First we realized a $0.01 after-tax gain from the formation of an aviation JV which we recorded that gain at corporate.
We completed the JV formation with AVIC for future avionic products and that resulted in $0.01 after tax.
We also had $0.01 after tax of restructuring and other charges in the quarter.
The charge is primarily related to a continued cost structure and improvements at Energy Healthcare GE Capital.
We also had a onetime cost related to the acquisitions and other non-repeat items.
On the bottom of the page we entered into a LOI to sell our Irish consumer mortgage assets and the operating platform in Ireland.
And as a result of that LOI we recognized a charge this quarter.
This is consistent with our strategy of reducing the red assets in the portfolio.
And although the final terms have not been negotiated and certainly not announced we did recognize a loss in discontinued operations of $188 million after tax.
And this allows us to exit the most challenged mortgage book that we have and that's going to be positive as we go forward.
And then one last item on this page we thought -- just to try and clarify the reported results year-over-year on the top right the normalized earnings box.
It shows you a walk of how we looked at normalized operating EPS adjusting for the gains and the onetime charges last year and this year.
So if you look last year our reported operating EPS was $0.33 but that included $0.01 net benefit from the combination of the NBCU gain which was partially offset by $0.03 of restructuring.
Plus we had $0.03 from the Garanti sale gain last year that was reported to GE Capital.
So if you look at last year's first quarter normalized it was $0.29.
And this year reported $0.34 with no net impact from the other items.
So the normalized operating earnings performance is much stronger than the reported variance.
I'll go to the businesses and we'll start with Energy.
Overall results were strong.
We had revenue growth at 18%.
We had double-digit profit growth.
And I'll start with the details of the Energy business.
We continue to see strong orders growth as Jeff showed you.
Orders of $7.7 billion were up 21%.
Equipment orders of $4.1 billion were up 29%.
That was driven some by the acquisitions plus 12 points from organic growth.
Renewable orders of $1.5 billion were up 59%.
We had orders for 696 wind turbines versus 327 in the first quarter of last year.
Thermal orders of $700 million were down 7%.
We had orders for 23 gas turbines versus 27 in the first quarter of '11.
And overall Energy orders pricing was a positive 0.2%.
Equipment orders pricing was down 0.2% and that was driven by thermal which was negative 1%.
Wind was negative 1.5% offset by positive equipment pricing in energy management.
And if you look at the combined thermal and Power Gen Services orders the price impact there was also positive 0.7%.
So orders pricing is definitely abating and it turned in total for the Energy business.
Service orders of $3.6 billion were up 13% and revenues in the quarter of $8 billion were up 13%.
That was driven by strong volume.
Plus we had about 5 points of that growth from acquisitions.
So good organic growth.
Equipment revenues of $4.5 billion was up 16%.
We had a strong renewables quarter.
Revenues of $1.5 billion were up 30%.
We shipped 611 wind turbines versus 366 last year and that was about 200 more than we planned in the quarter.
Thermal revenue of $1.8 billion was up 2%.
So we shipped 35 gas turbines versus 32 last year.
And aero revenue of $560 million was up 68%.
And service revenues of $3.5 billion were up 10%.
Segment profit of $1.2 billion was up 6%.
That was driven by the higher volumes plus some benefit from the acquisitions partially offset by the lower pricing from the wind and thermal backlog deliveries.
Oil &amp; Gas.
They just continue to experience tremendous growth.
Orders of $4.4 billion were up 47%.
Even after adjusting for the acquisitions orders were up 28% organically.
Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were up 64% driven by strong subsea orders in Australia and Angola.
And service orders of $2 billion were up 31% driven by drilling and surface services.
The orders price index for Oil &amp; Gas was up 1%.
Revenue of $3.4 billion was up 34% and that was driven by strong equipment revenues $1.6 billion was up 26% or 16% organically.
And service revenues of $1.8 billion were up 41% or 20% organically.
Segment profit of $400 million was up 31% driven by the acquisitions and the core growth.
The acquisitions continue to deliver results ahead of our pro formas.
And the organic segment profit of Oil &amp; Gas was up 12% driven by the strong volume partially offset by higher variable costs on some of their output.
So pretty good quarter overall in Energy.
Great to have them at double digits.
Next we'll go to Aviation.
The Aviation team delivered another solid quarter in the first quarter.
We took the JV gain out of the segment so the reported results exclude the gain that was reported in corporate.
Orders of $5.6 billion were up 8%.
Commercial engine orders of $1.6 billion were up 36% driven by strong orders for GE90 CFM56 and CF6 engines.
Military equipment orders of $500 million they were down 20% driven by a few lower engines but also lower development from the JSF termination.
Service orders of $3 billion were up 6%.
Commercial services were down 3% driven by lower spare parts.
Our first quarter average daily order rate was $23 million which was down 10% as we saw some softness driven by Europe.
Total orders price index for the business was up 2.1%.
Revenue of $4.9 billion was up 12% driven by strong equipment volume.
We shipped 583 commercial engines versus 503 last year up 16%.
And service revenues were up 3%.
Segment profit of $862 million was up 2% as the benefits of that higher volume and positive price were partially offset by higher R&amp;D investments and the impact of higher equipment versus services mix.
On the right side Transportation.
Transportation had another great quarter.
Orders of $1.6 billion were up 67%.
Equipment orders of $1 billion were up 131% driven by North American and international locomotive orders.
We also straw -- saw strong mining vehicle equipment orders.
Service orders were up 13% and orders pricing was up 1%.
Revenue of $1.3 billion was up 41% driven by the strong volume.
We shipped 159 locomotives versus 70 in the first quarter last year.
And our mining equipment revenue was also up 40% in the quarter.
Service revenues of $550 million were up 7% driven by the higher long-term service agreement and parts volume.
And segment profit of $232 million was up 48% driven by the higher volume and positive pricing.
Next is Healthcare.
Healthcare had a strong first quarter.
Good orders.
Orders of $4.4 billion were up 6%.
I'll give you some details on the equipment orders: $2.4 billion they were up 12%.
It was driven by strong growth across-the-board.
The U.S.
was up 15% on equipment.
Latin America was up 33%.
China was up 31%.
Eastern Europe and the Middle East were up 22%.
Asia Pacific was up 11%.
And Europe was the one soft spot down 6%.
Service orders of $2 billion were flat.
And total orders price was down 1.4%.
Revenue in the quarter of $4.3 billion was up 5% driven by the growth markets which were up 17% in volume.
And revenue in the U.S.
was up 3%.
And in Europe it was down 4%.
Segment profit of $585 million was up 10% driven by volume and productivity partially offset by the pricing.
And on the right side Home &amp; Business Solutions had another tough quarter but the level of decline has slowed significantly.
Revenues of $2.1 billion were up 5% driven by strong pricing.
The domestic appliance market was down 10% in units and we gained core share.
We also saw volume pressure from lighting in Europe.
European markets were soft.
Overall segment profit of $66 million was down 11% as the benefits of the higher pricing in appliances and lighting were more than offset by inflation and by our investments in the new product programs.
We started shipping the hot water heater and we'll be shipping the Bottom Mount Refrigerator starting in the second quarter.
So they're making great progress on all their Mission 1 investments.
And next is GE Capital.
Mike Neal and the team delivered another very positive quarter.
Revenue of $11.4 billion was reported down 12%.
However as I said if you exclude the Garanti impact revenue was down 7%.
Reported net income was flat.
But as you can see excluding Garanti it was up 27%.
So overall it was another very strong quarter.
We ended the quarter with $436 billion of ending investment already below our original $440 billion target and we're on the way to the $425 billion for the year.
And our net interest margin was 4.8% up 38 basis points.
There are more details on GE Capital and margins and in asset quality in the supplemental deck that we posted this morning.
If you look over at the right side you can see the asset quality metrics continue to be good.
Delinquencies fell in the mortgage business.
They fell in U.S.
retail.
They were up slightly in Real Estate and CLL.
A big highlight for the team was the Commercial Real Estate delivering positive earnings.
It's the first time in over 3 years and I'll cover Real Estate in a minute.
And we saw a good volume and good margins and our other asset quality metrics remain strong.
So if you go by business I'll start with Consumer.
Our Consumer results were much better than the reported variance shows.
We're comparing here to no repeat of the first quarter '11 Garanti income.
On a normalized basis the first quarter '12 Consumer results were up around 4%.
That includes a really strong performance in U.S.
The U.S.
Retail business had a great quarter with net income of $641 million up 18% driven by lower losses and higher margins.
Our portfolio's in good shape.
U.S.
Retail delinquency of 4.4% was down 54 basis points from the fourth quarter and it's at the lowest level in 9 years which is the only reported period that we have on these current basis.
So just a great asset quality and performance in the portfolio.
Europe had net income of $122 million down year-over-year from Garanti.
Our U.K.
home lending business earned $57 million in the quarter.
And we exited our Greek bonds in the quarter.
We took a $21 million after-tax loss.
We have no remaining Greek bond exposure.
Real Estate had positive earnings of $56 million in the quarter.
This is a great improvement as you know up $414 million from the first quarter of '11 up $210 million from the fourth quarter of '11.
In the quarter we had $25 million of after-tax credit costs and $30 million of after-tax margin impairments.
During the quarter we also sold 103 properties worth about $500 million for a $56 million after-tax gain.
We continue to see strong global liquidity.
It's helped improve valuations.
And while we're pleased with these results there will be a European portfolio valuation review in the second quarter.
But overall the Real Estate team has started the year ahead of our expectations off to a great start.
Commercial Lending &amp; Leasing business delivered strong results.
While assets were down 4% net income of $685 million was up 24% driven by lower credit costs lower margin impairments and core income growth.
Americas is the big driver.
Net income of $542 million was up 18%.
Europe net income of $59 million was down 35% mainly driven by lower assets year-over-year as well as higher provisions in Italy.
GECAS had a good quarter.
Earnings of $318 million were up 4% driven by higher core margin partially offset by lower gains.
We sold 22 aircraft in the quarter for a gain of $21 million.
And portfolio quality remained strong.
We ended the quarter with one aircraft on the ground out of our portfolio of over 1 500 aircraft.
Energy Financial Services earnings of $71 million were down 37%.
That's driven by $45 million of lower gains.
Last year's Q1 results included $50 million from our Caithness wind farm sale.
So GE Capital's off to a strong start for '12 and let me turn it back to Jeff.
Great Keith.
Thanks.
Just to reflect on the 2012 operating framework.
We really have no change to the 2012 operating framework.
We still see a solid double-digit growth in both Industrial and GE Capital.
If anything progress in Commercial Real Estate Energy and Healthcare make us even more confident.
We will continue to do restructuring to lower our costs.
Our CFOA and revenues are better than our expectations in the first quarter.
The year is progressing the way we thought in December.
And again we're confident in our operating framework for the year.
To summarize I'd just make several points.
Our markets continue to be attractive.
Investments have accelerated our organic growth and lead to a strong competitive position.
Margin improvements will accelerate through the year.
Healthcare and Transportation margin growth has begun.
I'm encouraged by the orders pricing trend and again margins are important for the GE team.
The GE Capital is very strong.
The turn of Commercial Real Estate's important and makes us feel positive about the balance of 2012.
Our cash flow was solid.
Our plan is to resume the GE Capital dividend subject to Fed review and our capital allocation will be balanced and investor-friendly.
We don't take the environment for granted.
We continue to be vigilant in risk management in a volatile world.
And we have strong liquidity and we're prepared for a variety of different outcomes.
And finally I think we're very well positioned again for double-digit earnings growth in both Industrial and GE Capital.
So with that Trevor let me turn it back over to you and let's take some questions.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks Keith.
Chanel why don't we turn over to our questions? Let's go through them.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Davis from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Jeff just to start off if you could give us a little bit of a sense on how you expect the margin ramp through the year.
And I know it may be hard to quantify it exactly but you're starting off in a little bit of a hole in Energy Infrastructure to get your 50 bps for the year.
I mean how do you kind of see the rest of the year playing out? So Scott I'd first say that the first quarter is typically the low quarter.
We've seen expansion over the last 5 years anywhere from 80 to 200 basis points on the total year.
I think what you're going to see in the rest of the year is a positive value gap.
You're going to see a reduction in R&amp;D spending as a percentage of the total improved acquisition performance in the run rate and I would say the impact of restructuring and productivity programs.
So I would see as the year goes on Healthcare Transportation solidly growing margin rates through the year.
Aviation we're expecting Aviation to be up 50 basis points on the year.
Again we had some unusual -- unusually high R&amp;D in Q1.
And then on Energy I always break down Energy in the subcomponents.
I think Service margins will be up.
I think Oil &amp; Gas has a good shot to have positive operating profit leverage on the year.
I think Equipment margins will be down.
And I think in the -- our gas turbine equipment margins will be down based on what's on the backlog.
And I'd say wind is just a wildcard given how much volume could actually take place in 2012 just based on the strength of the market.
So what I would say Scott is our costs are on plan.
Our pricing performance is on plan.
We've got lots of activities going to increase margins as the year goes on.
And that's kind of how I -- what I don't always control is the amount of revenue that any one individual product's having but we've tried to build in a little bit of buffer for negative mix and that's kind of how I handicap the year.
So I would say Aviation up Transportation up Healthcare up.
Energy could swing anywhere from up slightly to down slightly.
And that's kind of the plan for the year.
But the execution the underlying execution is happening about the way we thought and the orders pricing and the pricing on new commitments I think bodes well for the rest of '12 and '13.
So that's the way I would triangulate.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Jeff as a follow-up your old business Healthcare I mean I was -- I mean I think there was a lot of concerns in the quarter that Europe could really fall apart.
And it didn't really.
I mean you're only down 4%.
I mean what -- how do you look at or how do you think about that business for the rest of the year particularly in Europe? Scott I think it's a great question.
I think Europe is -- we had planned on a tough year in Europe in Healthcare and it's kind of coming in to be about what we had thought.
I'd say the U.S.
activity is a little bit better than we thought.
And then there's places we don't talk a lot about like Japan which -- where the Healthcare market is very strong both on a relative basis compared to last year and also in total.
So I saw probably -- we probably saw higher orders activity in Q1 than we expected and I would say in general not just in Healthcare in Europe but in general it's kind of hanging in there per our expectations.
Yes Scott.
One interesting point about Europe for Healthcare is that Germany the Netherlands the U.K.
and the Nordic had pretty good orders performance and Southern Europe is in a lot tougher shape.
So there's a real split going on there in terms of the economic activity.
That helped us a bit.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if you already answered this but the down I guess on the gas turbine order side first of all it was -- I think what you said it was down from last year but also the price there was only down 1% I think is what you said.
How do we think about that trajectory on both those dynamic -- on both those data points throughout the course of the year? Well first of all on the volume side we've said that we expect to deliver about 137 gas turbines this year so that'll be up.
There's no change to that outlook.
We're seeing some good discussions globally for equipment volume and so I think from a volume perspective we have a pretty good outlook and consistent with our framework.
From a pricing this is really encouraging I would say.
If you look at thermal last year it was down 6% in the first quarter 10% in the second quarter 7.5% 12.5% in the fourth quarter.
To go to 1.1% down and to be positive including the Service business I think that shows that we've been saying that the discussions around commitments on gas turbines have been healthy that pricing was stabilizing and so it's the start of a turn for us and I am reasonably encouraged by it.
Research Division</strong> So there's nothing unusual.
You think you can get to -- I mean if it's down 1% today and environment is still getting better you think you can get to positive at some point this year? Well we've said I think down in the Analyst Meeting we talked about by the end of the year showing a single positive and we're hoping that that can be what happens with us.
We've got pretty good discussions going on commercially with customers.
There's still an overhang of supply versus demand.
But globally there's order activity.
We're going to have a good volume growth this year.
And this first quarter is indicative of where pricing is in the commitment world and where it's going we think.
I think commitments are positive Steve.
That's usually a pretty good indication.
And my hunch by this is going to bode well or should bode well for '13.
Think about just the gas turbine margins.
So I don't see any change to that.
And to Keith's point earlier I think we see a lot of activity on gas turbine demand let's say in a lot of different parts of the world.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just on the GE Capital front you guys talked about -- I don't know if that was a change in language talking about return of capital throughout 2012 as opposed to by the end of 2012.
Is there a potential for maybe some more measured return of capital but through several time periods throughout the course of the year? Is there -- is that a purposeful change in language or how do we read that? I don't think there's any purposeful change there.
Our intent is to have a dividend as a percent of GE Capital's earnings that we pay to the parent.
And we -- our overall objective is to return excess capital above the capital levels required by the regulatory standards and all the stress tests back to the parent as well.
So there's no real change on that.
We're working constructively with the regulator.
We've got a ton of activity going on with them and they're working very professionally with us.
And so our objective is unchanged.
And as soon as we get news we'll give it to you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague Vertical Research.
Just a little more color on price in gas turbines if we could.
Are all those price -- order price numbers you're giving year-over-year changes? Yes.
They are -- they're not sequential.
And then I'm just also just wondering Keith as you noted things are clearly look like they're getting better but your 7 8 9 quarters of negative price.
As your sales price caught up -- sales price in revenue caught up with your order price can you give us some color on what gas turbine pricing and deliveries was in the quarter? Well sure.
We're working through that backlog.
Overall sales price in the quarter for the whole company was 0.6% positive on the Industrial side.
For Energy Infrastructure it was 0.4% negative.
For thermal it was down 2.5%.
For renewables it was down 4%.
So we are eating through that backlog that we've got.
But overall for the company including the strength in Aviation the strength in Transportation the strength in Oil &amp; Gas pretty good on pricing overall.
But we're going to work our way through that backlog this year.
I'd say the other piece of that Jeff is the value gap is positive in the quarter which is a little bit better than planned.
So we're seeing a little bit of break on commodity pricing which is good and that's I think bodes well for margins in the rest of the year.
And on wind those 200 units in Q1 is that additional units relative to what you expected for the year or is that just some shift between the quarters? From Q2 we saw tremendous orders in wind.
I think we're going to have a very good year in wind this year.
The U.S.
market is very robust as you know.
The production tax credits end by the end of the year and we're taking a really good share in the marketplace and we're going to have a terrific performance.
So they had some additional units versus what we thought in the first quarter.
But so far it's from second quarter.
But Jeff wind could run hot for the year I think.
It's just we've got a good product our market shares are high and there's a ton of activity there right now.
And then just finally on the Irish ops that went to disc.
ops do you guys have any guarantees or make-goods or anything attached to that where we might be concerned about some kind of discontinued tail on that? We do not.
That will be a complete exit.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Winoker Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just first question on GE Capital.
Just looking at I guess the reserve ratios on Page 9 of the supplemental can you just give a little color on how you were thinking about -- I guess they've come down to 1.99% sequentially from last quarter to 2.1%.
So just the steady trend down improvement in the environment how you're thinking about that on a provisioning and reserve basis.
Well I think we continue to see stabilization across on the financing receivables side and with loss provisions and write-off stabilization across almost all the portfolios of GE Capital.
So I would expect you're going to continue to see a little bit of a decline as we work our way through the write-offs for existing provided losses.
But the new provisions that we're laying on today are representative of pretty good run rate I would say a very healthy run rate based on a good backdrop.
The main change that we've seen is the decline in the marks and the write-offs in the equity book in Real Estate specifically.
So the run rates for new provisions for financing receivables are pretty good rates and at historically low levels I would say Steve.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we're pretty close to what you expect for a run rate reserve ratio? On the provision for losses.
We're going to continue to have the write-offs on prior provided losses that will probably be a little higher than new provisions.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on that real estate point you mentioned I guess there was -- you said $0.5 billion for 56 transactions or I think it was 50 -- sorry $56 million right? Was that -- did I hear that correctly for profit? That's right.
We had a gain.
We sold about $500 million a little over 100 properties.
$500 million of fair market value for a $56 million after-tax gain.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Does that mean -- so it would have been I guess 0 -- net-net 0 on segment profit roughly for the quarter without those.
Is the debt business getting better too? The debt business made money.
The debt business made about $30 million after tax in the quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right great.
And then just a question on the Industrial...
How much -- hold on I'm sorry.
86? Sorry the debt business made $86 million.
The debt business had a pretty good quarter and we lost some money on the equity business.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So I think you guys covered the whole Energy pricing pretty well.
Just let me -- on the Aviation side I know you mentioned you've got higher R&amp;D driving it but could you provide a little color on that margin degradation? Was it all that? Was some -- to what extent is pricing a factor there? Are you seeing any degradation in pricing spares things like that? Sure.
Pricing was pretty good.
Overall the margins were down in the quarter of 170 basis points in Aviation.
Positive value gap was a full point.
We had positive price and then we had negative mix basically.
We had a lot more Equipment revenue than Services revenue as we continued to deliver a lot of commercial activity.
And then we had about $50 million from higher R&amp;D investment.
And as Jeff said that's going to abate through the year.
We're kind of at the run rate.
And if you compare to last year we already had reached that run rate in the second half in Aviation.
So that won't be a drag going forward that you saw in the first quarter but pricing continues to be very strong in both spares and equipment in Aviation.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that mix you anticipate continuing to be negative for the rest of the year but no worse or...
Well we're going to ship a lot of equipment.
We've got a big backlog and Boeing and Airbus have increased their run rates and we've got a good share position.
So we're going to ship a lot of equipment.
But what we'd like to see through the year as Jeff said is the spares to grow a little bit as a percent of the total as we go through the year.
Spares is -- as we said the orders were down a little bit.
The shipments were down about 2% in the quarter and our expectation is that those will grow relative to last year as we go through the year.
So that should get a little better as we go through the year for Aviation.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And given your mix of orders that you're talking about on that does that mean when I look at that backlog not changing from 2011 year end to first quarter on that second or third slide should we expect sort of a stable backlog or you expect that to start coming up now a little bit more strongly in the following quarters on equipment? Well we'll have to see.
I don't really have a forecast of orders versus the deliveries on the total.
I don't really forecast the backlog.
We've got good good global growth.
We've got good equipment growth that we've had.
As you know the Aviation orders can be little lumpy but we've got a tremendous backlog.
We're in great shape here.
I don't think that's going to be an issue for us as we go through the year.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess on Energy the equipment side I guess has been sort of fairly well discussed.
I mean in terms of the aftermarket in Service and Energy the growth rate on service orders was about the same year-on-year as it was in Q4.
If you look at the U.S.
market the electricity produced by gas-powered equipment is up year-on-year even though overall electricity demand is down.
So I guess are you seeing any kind of effect from that in terms of driving aftermarket business for gas turbines in the U.S.
or is it going to be something like nuclear in Japan where there are a lot of hopes that that would spur a nuclear service boom which for some reason even though there was a nuclear accident that never actually happened? We had a pretty good activity in gas turbines in Japan.
Look I think it's all good.
When you look at the power plants that are running in the U.S.
and the proportion of the power that's being generated from gas and how that's increased that's a good news item for us.
A lot of the outages for these customers are scheduled a year or more in advance.
So those are kind of in place.
But the fact that these gas turbines are running and they're running more and they're being dispatched the rates that they're being dispatched is all good.
I think it's going to be positive into '13 and '14 and beyond.
We're not seeing a short-term pickup right now in PGS from that because most of the stuff as we said is scheduled but this is all good news.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But your service order growth rates in Energy theoretically should accelerate from the 6% or 7% recent run rate? Well I think over time you're going to get the benefit of the dispatching that we're seeing absolutely.
But again these are long-cycle assets and I think you're going to see that over time.
I don't think you're going to see that as a April May pickup just because they're dispatching the way they are.
I think they're going to run these and they're going to burn a lot of metal parts and it's going to be good long term for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on Aviation.
Some discussion around the mix of OE and service.
I guess it was my understanding that GEnx shipments in Q1 were fairly light and so does that not mean that you have a very steep sequential ramp of GEnx shipments through the year and that's going to weigh on your Aviation margins even in subsequent quarters? Yes I think if you look at the total year we're in decent shape.
We had a pretty good run rate at GEnxs in the second half.
In the second quarter we are going to ramp up.
We shipped 13 units in the first quarter of '12.
That was about flat to last year.
For the second quarter we're going to be up to 25 to 30 units.
And last year in the second quarter we had 4.
But when you get to the second half if we're shipping 25 to 30 units in the third and fourth quarter that's about the run rate we had last year.
That's why I think that's going to be helpful as you look at the Aviation margin impact going into the second half.
GEnx continues to come down the learning curve.
And like Keith said we had $50 million more in R&amp;D in Q1 versus last year and that normalizes as well.
So I'd say Aviation is -- there's always puts and takes with any one of our businesses but it's about where we thought we'd be.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So the sale of the Irish business what does that tell us about the risk appetite of the buyers in the financial world? I can't imagine it was a particularly easy business to sell.
Does this raise probability of seeing some sort of exits on some of these red line assets? Well we'll see.
I think for us it was just sort of a -- when you do have a chance to take a look at a portfolio that had the dynamics this one had and you get a buyer and we came to the point where you got we think a good economic return for shareholders we'll pursue it.
There's not a lot of other parts of the portfolio that are like that.
But as you say as liquidity has come back into the market this is a particularly challenging one and it was a unique buyer I would say.
But there are signs of improved liquidity across a lot of our asset classes.
And you see the valuation improvements that we see in real estate.
We will pursue opportunities as the bid and the ask gaps close here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what were the operating losses for that business? I mean I'm sure it wasn't $0.02 a quarter.
Last year we lost about $150 million after tax.
Yes we expected it to improve some this year but we'll see.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then switching to Industrial.
Again going back to the gas market in the U.S.
Do you have a sense on where the utilization rates for your turbines are right now because there's been a 5-point mix shift year-over-year in gas production.
And do you think -- I mean obviously the service benefits is clear down the road.
But with the high utilization does that spur orders quicker than maybe you might have thought in 2012? You mean Nigel orders for new units? Research Division</strong> Exactly.
Yes look I think just macro the good news is almost everywhere in the world people are moving to gas.
So the macro is -- the macro scene is very good.
Our products are being used at a higher level.
That should bode well for Services not just this year but next.
And again I think when does the next U.S.
heavy equipment order start? It's still hard to tell.
But just given growth in electricity and reserve rates and stuff like -- reserve margins and stuff like that it will come and it's going to be gas.
And I think that's the...
All roads lead to gas Jeff.
That's the bottom line I would give you.
I would say China the penetration of gas in China is growing.
The penetration of gas in Japan is growing.
The penetration of gas everywhere else in the world is growing so -- and that we have relatively high market share there.
We think every aspect I could give you is encouraging for the long term.
I just -- I can't predict if it's going to be second quarter or third quarter but it's coming.
I think one point on the thermal business that's helpful we've diversified the business so much today that the thermal contribution from a profit perspective is less than 10% of the total profit on the Energy Infrastructure business.
So the upside is in the front of us here.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one more.
We've seen Mitsubishi selling a couple of J-Series turbines and I think Siemens got an H-series last month.
What is your strategy with your H Frame turbine? It seems that you talk a lot about the FlexEfficiency turbine but the H-series seems to -- you don't seem to talk much about that.
But what sort of demand do you see out there for your H Frame? We're going to have a big block in the next few years and I think we'll be able to cover all of those areas I think.
And a lot of our customers like the Flex.
We still think that's a good place to own but we'll also have a big block.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry Darling Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess listening to all the comment on GE Capital and the lower tax rate I guess I'm wondering why the operating framework for GE Capital hasn't moved up here.
What's holding you back or what are you still concerned about there relative to you had a very strong 1Q and kind of the lower delinquency trends and all the other trends you see out there? Okay I think we have to see how the year plays out.
It's a pretty good quarter.
I think you're right.
We've got some positives.
I think tax is a positive.
I think Commercial Real Estate is off to a good start.
It's a positive.
I think if you look we're cautious on Europe.
I think so far so good but we're cautious on it.
I think low natural gas prices we're cautious on that in the Energy Financial Services portfolio.
But overall these guys are off to a good start and the outlook in the marketplace is pretty good.
Terry double plus is double plus.
We're not trying to be cute but it's a good year.
There's nothing in the first quarter that makes us discouraged about how GE Capital should perform this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then Keith for the good and welfare any items you want to call out with regards to comps or any other items in the second quarter that we all just ought to be refreshed on? Well there's nothing on 2012 that I'm aware of.
If you go -- I think one thing I mentioned we're going to have more GEnx shipments but we mentioned that.
That's in Aviation.
I think if you look at last year's Other Items page we'll have to see how we compare to some of those things.
There were small gains in Aviation that don't repeat and a gain in corporate.
But there's nothing significant in 2012 that I'm aware of right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I appreciate it's -- we're not going to get things nailed down here from you on Fed timing but I'm wondering if you can explain it.
It has taken longer than initially expected that was -- the decks were cleared on that point last quarter.
Since the last quarter has the process proceeded at a similar pace as what you had seen before? Has it been slower? Has it been faster? Any color there at all for us? Well yes I'd say it's proceeding at a similar pace.
I can tell you that both the GE Capital team and the team from the Fed are working incredibly hard.
You have to appreciate how much work the Fed has to go through here to try and learn a business as global and as diverse as GE Capital in the time frame that they really just started.
And I think they're working incredibly hard and incredibly professionally and we are too.
And I think the process proceeded in the first quarter the same way it was going at the end of the year and we continue to make progress together.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then maybe just lastly.
Jeff on bolt-on acquisitions it's been a little quiet here of late.
Can you update us on what's in the pipeline and potential for some smaller bolt-ons here through the course of 2012? Terry we may do some smaller bolt-ons but we got a lot on our plate.
I really want to get all the Energy acquisitions nailed.
I just don't want to do a big deal this year.
I just -- again we never say never but I just don't want to do a big deal this year.
I really -- we've got 11% organic growth 20% orders growth.
We got gain right now and I think our focus is on good execution and delivering big backlogs and that's really the focus of the leadership team.
Your next question comes from Christopher Glynn of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> On the 11% Industrial organic growth does fare pretty when well against guidance.
Would you expect that's a high watermark for the year or maybe just offer some color on how you see backlog flowing through during the year.
My hunch is that we don't have any plans to continue at that rate for the year.
I think Chris we said 5% to 10% in the December meeting.
I think we're going to be safely in that range.
And again we just see pretty good -- big backlogs big orders and we're in some good places right now so I think that's -- but 11% is high.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on the second quarter review of European CRE portfolio review do you have a taste you could offer on the outcomes you might be anticipating? It's in the context of overall valuation improvement.
We'll have to see.
We've continued to mark our equity book where we have values that put the cash flows at less than our current book value.
So I think we've got a pretty good mark on it today.
But you'll have to see how the assumptions play out.
Overall we feel pretty good about Real Estate.
I think we're going to be cautious.
Look we got about $8 billion of equity in real estate in Europe.
So we have to go through the valuation review take it incredibly seriously.
But I think overall you feel good about the dynamics globally.
Your next question comes from the line of Deane Dray of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Hey on the Moody's recent recalibration of their methodology for rating finance companies have you seen any change in your funding costs? We haven't really.
We've tracked it obviously from the day we were put on notice on the day that the action was taken.
Our spreads continue to trade relative to banks who are higher rated and banks who are lower rated than us right in line.
And over the last 10 days -- the first couple of days we saw an increase in spreads in line sort of with the market and then the last 10 days we've seen a compression of the spreads back again.
I mean overall as you know all the actions that we've taken in GE Capital to strengthen liquidity lower the short-term funding risk raise the capital improve the risk profile of the portfolio I think those have been pretty well recognized by the market.
And the fact that the Moody's methodology just has a fundamental change in how they feel about fincos and ultimately they're going to do the same thing on banks as you've read a lot about recently.
I think that the market is looking at what is the core business and underlying strength of the cash flows and the protection for the bondholders of the business.
I think the actions that we've taken at GE Capital have been recognized by the market and have helped us to perform through a period where we were downgraded.
Research Division</strong> Yes and we agree when we looked at how the bonds initially acted at the time of the announcement it was very minor.
It was like maybe between 5 and 10 basis points and then that seems to have tightened subsequently so it's fair to say that was a non-event.
We agree.
Research Division</strong> And then over on the resumption of the dividend from Capital to the parent one of the scenarios we were talking about in December was the idea that you could be in a position to make that dividend retroactive going back to January.
Is that still a possibility or how are you looking at that today? Look our objective is to have a dividend of a percentage of GE Capital's earnings that's equivalent to what we pay to our investors on the overall company stock and it would be for the year.
And the timing of the reviews and everything that we have shouldn't change that.
But again we're going to have to wait until we get feedback and information from the Fed on that.
Our objective hasn't changed.
Our objective was to pay a 45% dividend on GE Capital's earnings for the entire year and to return excess capital above the regulatory standards including the stress cases.
And it's something that over several years we feel really good about the excess capital we have in financial service.
But again we got to work through this exercise and we're doing it constructively and professionally.
And as you saw the results in GE Capital in the first quarter it continued to strengthen so we have to see how that all goes.
Research Division</strong> And what's the expectation on the stress test? And talk a bit about the preparation that you're going through.
Well we do our own stress cases a couple times a year and we're not publicizing those results.
But you can expect that an enterprise like GE Capital would go through exercises similar to what you saw other large financial institutions go through but we do it in our own way with the Fed sort of uniquely as opposed to being part and lumped together with the bank.
So we're doing a lot of work.
We have stress cases.
We have portfolio reviews.
We have reserve reviews.
We have all the things that you'd expect a financial institution to have and just we're doing it one-on-one with the Fed and it won't be disclosed.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So I'm trying to figure out if we should be expecting ENI to go lower at GE Capital? I mean it's -- the problem with Real Estate getting so good now is I mean you had Real Estate turned positive in the quarter you got the GE Capital tax rate going down 5 points with Industrial staying about where it was and you had capital like 50% of earnings.
I'm trying to figure out how we get -- it doesn't seem like anything's getting worse at Capital.
Everything's getting better.
So how do we get that percentage down if we're not sort of doing I guess some larger asset exits? Look I would always say that the GE Capital's percentage of earnings in the first quarter are always high and we haven't changed our long-term outlook on where we want the split to be.
And then again we continue to execute on a plan that would get us lower than where we finished the first quarter in ENI and we see opportunities to do that by exiting red assets and we still have opportunities there and that's what I would expect.
But at the same time look our net interest margin is growing.
Our returns on new business our ROI on new business was higher in the first quarter than it was in the fourth quarter.
So there's lots of other elements in the business that are good even as we shrink ENI.
I think it's a good point on -- it's one other point on ENI.
When you look at the total year we are continuing to shrink so that is one of the things that does reduce earning assets obviously and earnings.
And on tax I don't think it's a straight 5 points.
I think it's a couple of points in the range of what we had as mid-teens to around 10.
And there's a lot of uncertainty to that as you know when you get to the end of the year.
So that obviously is another item that could move as you go into the end of 2012 and into 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I understand the point of the seasonality with some Industrial stuff stronger later in the year.
But in terms of the ENI I mean does 425 still feel like the right number or...
No Shannon again I think that's kind of the -- again these are big numbers.
They're always hard to predict to a single point.
My preference and the way we're trying to run the place is to get to 425 by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on the capital allocation can you just fill out I guess this investor-friendly comment a little bit in terms of when you do or assuming you do and when you do get the dividend back from Capital I mean is buyback still sort of the priority use? I mean how should we -- maybe just frame some thoughts around how you think about ramping that once you get the green light.
Again this is something that we'll go through with the board when that takes place.
But I would say we love growing the dividend in line with earnings.
We think that's great.
We do -- we might do a few smaller bolt-on acquisitions in businesses we're already in.
And if we get the opportunity we'd still like to do buyback.
So I think there'll be some mixture but we certainly think buybacks are attractive to our investors and that's what it means to be investor-friendly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's sort of balanced buyback acquisitions? Again I hate to predict anything.
But I think we believe that buybacks are investor-friendly.
But I always go back to dividends small bolt-on acquisitions and buybacks.
We'll pull all 3 levers I think as we have surplus cash.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Feldman.
Research Division</strong> First Jeff I think you mentioned earlier when discussing orders that you thought you were gaining share in certain markets and feeling pretty good about that.
Can you elaborate on where you see the most substantial market share gains? We never know those numbers kind of ahead of time so each industry has its own cadence.
It's just -- it's a high level versus what anybody would predict for the industries we're in.
So I think we need to kind of see NEMA data and other stuff as we go through the close of the quarter and get a chance to look at some of our competitors' results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly can you give us an update on the 737 MAX program and the engine development how it's going there? I think there have been some concerns about how that was going given the size constraints on the 737 whether you'd be able to have an engine that was competitive enough with the A320neo.
Yes -- no I think we like where we are.
We see some additional fuel burn opportunities that we want to execute on.
I just was reviewing the program a couple weeks ago out in Cincinnati.
I think we've been able to take a lot of technology off the GEnx and put it into LEAP.
I'd say if you sat back and said you got the 737 MAX you've got the C919 and our share of the A320neo is probably greater than 50%.
We like how the engine's positioned and so we feel pretty good about both the technology and the commercial process on that particular -- on the narrow-body space.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Langenberg of Langenberg &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just 2 questions talk about Energy and Healthcare.
First on Energy great news on the pricing.
It almost defies logic not in terms of the direction and what we're looking for being bullish on your stock but just how quickly.
How much of this is customers? And talk a little bit by region going hey we do need this capacity.
We may have to back off a little bit to get a deal signed and how much of this if any is your teams being a little bit more selective and saying there's just some business that maybe we let somebody else win? And then I have a brief question on Healthcare.
Look I don't think -- we're trying to compete globally everywhere Brian and we're -- we've got good strong competitors especially in that thermal space.
And we've got a great product in the Flex 50.
We've got a great product in our heavy-duty gas turbine product line.
And so we're not -- I don't think anybody's backing off anywhere.
I think we're competing globally.
I think one of the things that you may see relative to the historic trend is you ended up with some higher-priced capacity that's had price erosion over the last 12 to 18 months and now we're getting to kind of a market-clearing price level.
So it's not so much either walking away or supply and demand has tightened dramatically.
I think you've really just had the pricing get to a level where it's probably more realistic for the main competitors in the marketplace based on the demand we see.
I hope that helps a little bit.
LLC</strong> It does.
Sounds a little bit like new normal.
Then on the Healthcare side certainly some decent performance there especially with all the noise that's going on.
Did you -- have you observed or did your team there observe any kind of a change in texture as the healthcare reform is going to the Supreme Court argument? Anything you guys saw blip-wise up or down in terms of marginal propensity to buy it through the quarter or your conversations now? Really none.
Again I think the U.S.
seems to have normalized.
My hunch is the market's probably single digit -- low single digit up that would be my expectation.
And Brian we really didn't see any change after the Supreme Court or anything like that.
Very strong orders on the -- orders on Equipment were really strong in the U.S.
as we said up 15% and that says that there's good technology and customers have capital and they need to continue to improve their capability.
And so I think overall it was a very encouraging quarter.
LLC</strong> And that plus 15% was a fairly steady plus 15%? I mean...
We have -- if you want some products CT was up 10 MRI was up 9 x-ray was up...
LLC</strong> No I mean through the quarter.
I'm sorry Kevin like through the quarter like...
No real change.
Really pretty steady.
And your next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if the question was answered but I guess I just wanted to get a little bit more info on this.
Utilities continue to come out and talk about the high utilization of their plants from a gas perspective.
How does that translate over the next 12 to 18 months from a Services perspective? Because it's kind of unclear to me.
There's a lot of moving parts with which plants are being used the starts and stops whether that's more profitable for your Services business.
Maybe you could just give a little bit of color on how that actually impacts the Services business at Energy.
What I would say Steve is if you look over let's say 18 months and as this performance continues this should be good for our Energy Power Gen Services business because again they run them higher they're going to consume more parts things like that.
Now this all gets balanced between who's got shutdowns when are the shutdowns where are they on a CSA.
There's a whole bunch of -- there's like 10 other Xs that are in that equation but the macro point is positive.
That's why I don't think we're trying to be vague.
It's just hard to call a quarter but the macro trend is good.
Research Division</strong> So was it something that can add -- instead of it growing 5% just on installed base could it add a couple percentage points to the growth rate? I mean is it something that meaningful or is it it all kind of blend in and kind of support the kind of mid-single-digit Services growth there? I think what it could do is over time add to the growth rate.
But again I do believe that.
So I just think it's just hard to predict exactly when.
Research Division</strong> Well it's certainly not going to hurt the growth rate.
Yes exactly.
That's right.
Great Chanel.
I think we're wrapped up now is that...
That is correct.
There are no further questions.
Great.
Well thank you everyone for today.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We'll be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today.
Just a few quick announcements regarding upcoming events.
Next week on Wednesday is our 2012 Annual Shareholders Meeting in Detroit.
Hope to see you there.
On May 23 Jeff will be presenting at the 2012 EPG Conference.
And then finally our second quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be held on Friday July 20.
As always we'll be available to take questions today.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Out next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
So Keith maybe could you walk through the big components of the $555 million year-over-year increase in real estate? Sure.
If you look at the variance on earnings -- let me get the right numbers for you.
Lower marks and impairments so we had 7 million of credit costs and on a variance item versus last year thats s couple of hundred million dollars of benefit.
$256 million on marks and impairments.
And we also had the last year we had real estate losses that were not tax effected so that was something that increased probably the one time benefits in there a little over $100 million in the quarter for real estate.
And the base income is better from the core of business on earnings on both the debt and the equity portfolio.
I mean at the end of the day when you look at what really has happened is when you go do global valuations we did not have declines and valuations on either the debt or the equity book and that just changes the profile of earnings and real estate.
And then you earned a little bit by selling some properties and having some gains.
So I mean relative to this you said the tax rate didnt run through that I mean the tax...
No the sale of BP is not in here but last year we had losses that were not tax affected and as a result this year by having none of that you have an improvement year-over-year in taxes.
Okay.
But sequentially moving forward it doesnt sound like there is anything that unusual in this 220 number.
I think you know you are plus or minus $50 million-$70 million on a run rate from taxes.
Other than that I think if we dont have any valuation changes than you continue to see the market where we are.
We feel pretty good about the outlook for the business.
Okay.
And then just on the pricing in energy gas and wind turbine is down on units but the pricing is up I mean last year the pricing was down a bunch in those segments particularly in 2Q.
I mean was some of this easy comp or was it mix or does that all feel real to you? Help me out with what you are on are you on orders or sales? I am no orders.
So I think you said up 5 last year there some significant order pricing declines on orders.
Absolutely.
You know Shannon I think there is always mix kind of falling through this and I am not sure that its going to be up five forever.
But I do think we have seen it firming in commitments we have seen that starting to flow through and I think we expect a decent pricing environment going forward.
I mean you can see it swinging right.
You know as you said last year Q1 Q2 Q3 down six down ten down seven on thermal.
Q4 down 12 Q1 was down one Q2 was up five.
Our estimate for the year right now is this should be somewhere around flat but its definitely changed the dynamics of supply and demand here on pricing front.
And just last clarification from me.
You offset the lower tax rate in the quarter with restructuring GE Capital.
Now it can be lower for the whole year.
Are you going to ramp your structuring to offset the incremental benefit or how is that going to work? Well it is in the detail for the run rate.
Now you are somewhere in the mid-single digits.
So the disconnect in the quarter was the capital benefits of tax were in GE Capital and the restructuring was mostly in corporate.
But right now it will be in the capital run rate at somewhere in the mid-single digits.
But for the second half we now have a lower capital tax rate then we assumed before.
Are you going to offset that 5% difference with some more restructuring or is it just going to flow through.
I dont have it planned that way.
We are looking at restructuring associated with the cost out and we are evaluating what we can do to continue to accelerate the actions to simplify the company and improve our margins.
So there are activities we are working on but we dont have it planned that way Shannon.
For GE Capital and specifically commercial lending can you comment on net interest margin on new business being written versus business thats rolling off? I dont have that number Deane.
I will have to have probably get back to you with it.
But I think the net interest margin is very positive.
Like most of the metrics being around margins are improving but I think we can get you....
For (inaudible)...
We can give you what the flow through is.
Do you have it broadly for capital? Because that had been a data point in the recovery that we saw significantly better net interest margin...? It was up 50 basis points year-over-year.
Yeah I think NIM captures some of that I think Deane.
Okay.
And then on the tier one comment just to make sure I have the math right.
With the resumption of the dividend that does put some pressure on tier one.
It may be by 20 basis points or so but can you calibrate the impact there? Well the earnings more than offset it in the capital ratios.
If you look in the supplemental charts that we have sent out there is a breakdown of the impact on the tier one ratios from earnings growth foreign exchange and dividends.
And then lastly Keith can you comment on how the tax benefits should help provide some ability to take down GE Capital assets faster.
Will that be towards the red assets? And is that still about $80 billion in expectations for the balance of the year? I think the example we are using here is business properties.
We had an opportunity we have a negotiated transaction to sell $5 billion of real estate assets.
The fact that there is a tax benefit associated with the structuring enables us to remove $5 billion of assets that were earning around $50 million.
So its a onetime transaction and its an example.
(inaudible).
For us shrinking $5 billion of real estate is a good move strategically for the GE capital business.
You know Deane if you think back over the last few years we beat every commitment on the side of GE Capital.
And one of the things I said at EPT is that I think we are all aligned behind as to continue to make GE Capital smaller and more focused.
And we are going to continue to do that and I think BP is a good transaction for us.
Yeah.
The red ending investments of about $75 billion its around 17% year-over-year.
And the BP transaction is a good example of the team continuing to do a good job of running these assets.
Now if you look at the supplemental you can see the dividend was 60 basis points on the tier one.
And the earnings added 30 basis points and thats pretty much why we went from 10.1 to 10.4 from Q1 to Q2.
And even with that though if you look year-over-year we are at 10.1 a whole point up even with the dividend on tier one common.
And in addition when you look at total capital the preferred stock that we issued enabled us to build our non-common tier one capital and still enabled us to pay a dividend of $3 billion to the parent keep the capital ratios above what we think we need to have.
So first question on the order growth rate.
How much -- to what extent did acquisitions contributed at all to that number.
What would it have been organically? The total was about -- yeah most of the acquisitions now as you get through the second quarter are all in the run rates.
And FX was what about...
2 points.
Two.
So about two.
Yeah.
So it was kind of flattish.
Okay.
And then on the GE Capital reserving front.
I think that was page nine in the supplemental.
You know you talked about the environment continuing to improving continuing to improve reserves coming down to 1.86% now from I guess 2.26 in the second quarter of 11.
Just give us a sense maybe on the environmental side I mean obviously a lot of this is driven by the U.S.
and by your activity that you are seeing but at the same time we are seeing so much uncertainty and volatility globally.
And with what's going on in Europe and you guys have a fair bit of assets over there.
So how do you think about this? Being able to take reserves down relative to...?  You know the reserves arent being taken down the write-offs are in excess of the reserves.
We had about $100 million of impact of the balances of reserves from FX.
But if you look at the numbers by business the delinquencies are down in every single set of our operations except for the mortgage which is up seasonally.
Non-earnings are down in every single one of our businesses.
Our write-offs are down in every single one of our businesses quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year for all three of those metrics.
So we continue to have a portfolio that shows improvements in its performance.
And I think you are getting to run rate levels of new provisions on new business.
And the only thing that will change that will be the mix between retail which obviously is higher reserve levels and the commercial which has lower reserve levels.
But are you seeing that the -- question is in terms of the progression to the quarter maybe or any kind of risk as you look out where you feel like that provision rate is in any way at risk as we head into what is potentially a more difficult macro environment? Well we have been in that environment for quite some time in Europe.
I think the team has had to take a lot of operating actions right.
We have been very prudent from a risk perspective on increasing our underwriting standards.
We have lowered our open lines on credits that were less creditworthy in Europe.
I mean its a full core press from the risk team about reducing our exposures in places where we dont want to have them.
We had to add reserves and take some provisions in Italy.
I think thats a tough place.
You know previous quarter we had some in Hungary but that stabilized.
That was really a legislative change on mortgages.
You know we are watching the Spain consumer business thats obviously a tough place.
But things like the UK continue to perform non-earnings are down delinquencies are down.
Delinquencies were up a little bit seasonally but they are less then what normally we would have.
And the main drivers as we shrink that book the non-earning assets and the delinquencies are a higher percent its not that they are going up in terms of dollars.
So I think that the risk team has done a really good job in cooperation with the operating team.
But right we are at run rate levels if we have specific things that happen we will reserve for them.
The biggest change you are seeing across this portfolio is obviously the improvement of real estate values globally.
Both the debt and the equity book in the quarter from a valuation perspective on the work that we did on the assets that were covered had increases in the valuations.
Thats the first time in years you know versus the pressure we have had in the equity and the debt book for almost four years here Steve.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then just maybe last comment on China.
What are you guys seeing a little more broadly in terms of demand over there and that trend given the....
You know Steve we are in a little bit of a different sequence because we are more long cycle oriented stuff.
So I think the revenue is up 20% plus in the quarter.
Orders slightly below that but still pretty strong and healthcare is very strong.
There is a conversion between coal and gas in the power sector.
There is aviation remains pretty strong.
So we are not on the short cycle side we are more long cycle driven in China.
And we still see a decent environment for us.
Just to give you some numbers.
The revenue was [14] up 24 as Jeff said.
If you look at energy its up 34 aviation was up 26 in the quarter healthcare was up 24%.
The orders are a little slower they are up 6 but there are also some of the backlog is what we have there.
So this is a pretty good performance.
We expect a very strong performance across the year for China.
Firstly on energy you know its a slightly odd disconnect where your service orders are down and the prices on the equipment are up.
I mean is there some risk I guess do you have sort of a big catch up on service spares and thats now sort of run out of steam? Because I guess you know the improving fundamentals behind equipment orders and therefore pricing you think should reflect in service as well? I dont think there is any risk of that.
I think what we saw in the business in the quarter from an orders perspective were that the customers are running their gas turbine as a result of low natural gas pricing.
If you look at the revenue in energy and services it was pretty solid in the quarter.
So our team has positive outlook as a result of the current operating environment.
And for us its a question of when does it come through.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on healthcare.
I guess that was the business that had pricing down.
You know how worried are you about the ability to drive earnings up year-over-year in the second half.
I understand that the Latin American mis-execution normalizes but pricing is running at what minus 1.5.....
You know Julian pricing is about -- thats just kind of the nature of the business.
Because its a little bit on -- you know you are a little bit on the confusing learning curve.
So thats been kind of nature.
The CM rates are still pretty strong and I think that in some ways its a little bit of apples and oranges.
So I think we see a U.S.
healthcare market thats kind of flat maybe up a couple of points.
As Keith said Europe is very tough.
But the emerging markets in healthcare are pretty dynamic.
And I think at EPG we said healthcare is the one plus to two plus so up single to double.
We still think healthcare is going to have a good solid second half of the year.
You know the orders if you look at the book to bill in the quarter they were 1.11 at the half its 1.08.
Theyve built a little bit of backlog.
They need to execute.
Thats what we are looking for in the second half here Julian.
Great.
Thanks.
And then finally the industrial CFOA was down year-over-year in Q2.
Was that just around sort of working capital relating to wind orders or....? Its really two things.
We had about $200 million of pensions funding we havent had that before.
We expect that to be about $400 for the year.
But as you know in the K we put out it was going to be $1 billion for the year.
So 600 better for the year than we said.
And then we just built inventory.
We have built a billion plus of inventory in the energy business and as you said its mostly related to the wind.
In the second half here we are going to deliver close to 1800 to 2000 wind units.
Almost of the full amount of volume we had for all last year.
So we got a good outlook here in the second half in energy and wind is going to be a big part of that.
Let me just go back to what Keith said on pensions just to make sure you guys understand it.
So originally I think our funding for this year was going to be a billion....
1 billion yes.
Now its $400 million.
So its $600 million better.
And I think we have put in the K...
2.1.
We put 2.1.
So now we think thats going to be....
100 million...
Extremely small may be less than a 100 million.
So thats a big benefit in cash over the next few years that investors should understand.
So regarding the discontinued operations charges WMC and GE Money Japan.
Are there divested finance assets where there is still recourse or retained liability that have the risk of popping up like this.
Are these really the two big ones that are out there? These are the two.
And on wind obviously its challenging today its a cyclical market and the products tax credits are expiring.
So how do you feel about that business longer term? Given changing economics of low gas prices and a fairly crowded competitive environment in wind.
You know we said that in the next year we anticipated $0.03 down versus this year in wind.
So we are kind of getting ready for that.
You know the industry is reforming kind of outside the United States right now.
So we have got some big orders in places like Brazil and Canada and Australia Turkey places like that.
You know we have navigated the cycle as well as anybody.
I think we probably make as much money as the rest of the industry combined or something like that.
And we have a pretty good window on the future.
So we havent....
Return on capital is almost infinite here.
We havent over-invested.
We have got a very flexible supply chain.
So I think we are just going to kind of ride the wave.
But we do think that its $0.03 headwind next year and we are already taking action to kind of be able to offset that.
Okay.
And then lastly you mentioned the potential $5 million of real estate divestiture.
There was the EverBank deal a couple of weeks ago.
Has the environment for potential asset sales improved materially recently or is this just at the right time and you have had kind of unique opportunity that should be taken advantage of what's out there.
Sure its a steady improvement.
You have seen us talk about the valuation changes in real estate quarter-to-quarter-to-quarter.
And this is another sign that the market is getting better.
I mean we are able to move $5 billion of real estate assets at a gain to the company in total.
And the team is going to continue to work on that.
So I think yes valuations have continued to improve.
Liquidity is coming in the marketplace.
If you got a good property with a decent lease you can extract a good price in this low interest rate environment.
Stabilization of valuations in Europe the valuation in Europe was better than we anticipated as we closed the first quarter.
And we expect that to continue.
Had a question on the different margins factors in the back half of the year year-over-year versus with the one half.
We are looking at volume leverage better price flowing through and the anniversary of the acquisitions.
Can you kind of gauge what are the relative imports there? Sure.
I think Jeff said that value gap is going to be positive.
Thats the difference between the pricing we are getting in the raw material inflation that we experience or deflation.
That is positive 100 in the second quarter.
We expect that to continue.
R&amp;D as a percent of revenue we have talked about that a lot we have peaked as a percent of revenue.
We are still at a very high level in terms of revenue but its peaked in terms of the impact on margin.
Our total cost productivity which is our ability to continue to deliver new volume and take advantage of leverage it was positive four tenths of a point in the second quarter.
We expect that to continue.
And the one dynamic that we are working our way through is the equipment and service margin mix.
But as Jeff said we expect margins to go positive in the third quarter.
And they will be positive in the fourth quarter and to get to the 30 basis points we need an average of about 80 basis points in the second half.
And thats what our teams are working on right now.
Okay.
And then on the turbine Flex launch in the second half.
How are you viewing that now? And is that impacting current demand and how do you view the lag to regaining some share and competitive parity? You know Chris I think the Flex launch is going well.
We have had some great wins in Japan in the second quarter that were fantastic.
And I still think our gas turbine share is going to be somewhere between 40% and 45%.
So we want to retain kind of historical averages for that and we will continue to invest in new NPI in the gas turbine product line as well.
So again I think this is really important for us and Flex has gone well.
And I think you will continue to see strong NPI efforts from GE.
I guess I really dont understand your pensions strategy.
I mean I understand the obligation has gone down under this law change.
But your annual benefits payable like $3 billion a year.
Other companies have kind of remarked yeah there is a lot of change but we dont want to let ourselves get further behind.
Just kind of surprised with the posture you are taking there and how do you see pensions playing out as you look further beyond 2013? Well we have taken a lot of actions here.
I think the most important action that we took was we closed the plant to new employees Jeff.
Now you may not be aware of that but as a result of that action the change in the future liability has dramatically -- the curve has dramatically changed.
And its a huge amount of pressure we have taken of that pension plan in terms of the earnings rate that has to be realized over time.
I think the benefit payments are less than what you talked about.
I dont have the exact number but its not the size what you said.
And our team is working on a risk reduction strategy.
You know we are not going to full risk-reduction in terms of going 100% to risk off in bonds.
But we are reducing our risk seeking exposures as we become additionally more funded from a [risk] gap perspective.
So the team has got a good asset allocation plan.
They have got a good track record on the turns.
We have cut the future tail of this liability by closing the plant to new employees.
And we were going to fund a billion this year we are going to fund 2 billion next year.
We know our anticipation is we will be fully funded in a couple of years.
This change in ERISA funding doesnt really change our outlook much on what we think we are going to do in terms of how we get to fully funded in that pension plan.
And we are not seeking additional risk to do it.
And I was just looking at the Annual Report that shows $3 billion in 2012 and actually shows its going up in the next four or five years not down.
I dont think thats $3 billion.
That includes all the healthcare costs that includes the retiree and employee healthcare costs.
Its about a billion dollars on pension Jeff.
Okay.
It says principal plan.
Just on GECAS obviously kind of all the NEOs and everything was so new last year that there was no impact.
Obviously you are going to roll up your sleeves in Q3 I mean you obviously gave us a heads up to be on alert through this.
Is there some early thoughts on what we should expect.
I dont have any signals from the team of anything unusual.
We continue to reduce our exposure to older assets as you know and we have taken some impairments quarter-by-quarter-by-quarter on some of the older assets that are less fuel efficient.
You know our fleet is in pretty good shape in terms of the percent of older assets.
And I dont anticipate anything abnormal here in the third quarter Jeff.
Just wanted to turn your attention to energy margins in 2013.
I think everyone knows that wind will take a step down in 2013.
How confident are you that you can margin or you can even grow margin with let's say $2 billion less volume.
Well just on a wind basis alone if you move to right business at the margin you are going to have a margin increase.
Thats cheating.
Thats....
Well thats reality.
I mean were getting penalized for this year Jeff.
Well let's step through it.
Let's (inaudible).
Value gap positive so you are going to have pricing ahead of deflation.
We see pretty good headwind on that.
I think we are going to have a good services mix next year.
I think we like the way services could line up for next year.
Structural cost down.
You know again you are talking about you know guys I would reiterate we have said we are going to take $2 billion of cost out of 12 13 and 14.
And we are on our way to doing that.
And thats going to take G&amp;A as a percentage of revenue its going to go down a couple of 100 basis points around this place.
So you are going to get some structural cost out.
So you are going to have good value gap you are going to have positive mix you are going to have pretty good service and you are going to have structural cost down.
You know I think that is a pretty good line up.
Right.
But looking at wind in itself.
I know its a highly variable cost business.
If we get on from say seven to say five what happens to wind margins next year? I would bet that wind just intra-wind right.
[Niger] thats what you are asking? Exactly.
Yeah.
Wind margins will probably go down a little bit.
But its really de-verticalized business and so I think its not going to be kind of what you think.
But just because of the volume we have this year my hunch is that the margin rate just intra-wind will probably go down slightly.
Okay.
And then moving to the broader energy business the move to the positive pricing orders is great news.
Can you just remind us what is the lead time on pricing in the order book.
When do we see that coming through the P&amp;L? 12 to 18 months.
12 to 18 months yeah.
By product line.
And then stripping out energy management thats $6 billion BU.
I think it will be a small segment by far.
Is the intention to grow that if we are thinking about this sort of acquisition funding going forward? You know should we view energy management as up there top one or top two? You know I think there is segments within energy management [Nigel] that we like that we might do some of the smaller acquisitions in.
I think the key thing is again to give investors kind of pure play on the power generation side a pure play on the oil and gas side and a pure play on the energy management side.
And I think thats what many people have been asking for and thats what you are going to get in the structure.
Okay.
And then finally I dont want to get too deep into the weeds of corporate expenses.
But its a tough line to model and it seems to be running above the $3 billion expansion guidance for fiscal 12.
Are we still running towards that Keith or should we expect that to come down in the second half of the year.
Say that again? The $3 billion in corporate.
While we are still running through the...
Yeah $3 billion corporate for the year yes.
We are about $1.5 at the half and there is some ups and downs on the one timers.
But thats the estimate for the year.
Yeah.
Got it.
Thanks.
I just want to -- the pension out of the (inaudible) is about $3 billion.
I am sorry Jeff is right.
Sorry about that.
I just had a follow up.
So on the energy services decline in orders what you are saying is they are running their plants so you are not seeing kind of the normal kind of pace of orders.
I guess that would suggest that I mean at some time they have got to service these things and if they are running in for a longer hour.
So is that actually a push out business? Yeah I think Steve like the flow orders that would tend to happen and shut downs and stuff like that are slower because the guys are running the plant.
So I think...
But thats got to come at some point all right? You know again with cheap gas prices everything we thought about this is true.
Guys are running the plants hard.
And they are pushing out service and stuff like that and I think that will come back at some point.
Yes thank you everyone.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We are distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital as we always do today.
Just a couple of few announcements here regarding investor events.
Jeff Immelt will be hosting a GE Infrastructure Investor Meeting which will include all of our infrastructure business leaders.
The meeting will be held on Thursday September 27 in the New York City area.
More details regarding the event will be sent in the upcoming weeks.
We hope everyone can make it.
Finally our third quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be on Friday October 19.
As always we will be available to take the questions there.
Thank you everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
My name is Chanelle and I will be your conference coordinator today.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanelle.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays third quarter 2012 earnings webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of the presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
Now Id like to turn over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great.
Trevor thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Look we had a good third quarter in a challenging environment.
Europe is tough; Asian resource risk countries are okay and U.S.
had packets of growth but still some uncertainty.
Revenue growth was good in the environment with organic growth up 8% in the quarter and 10% year-to-date.
We finished the quarter were $203 billion of backlog.
Earnings were solid growing at 13%.
Both industrial and capital had double-digit earnings growth in the quarter.
Every industrial business had positive earnings growth for the first time since the third quarter of 05.And our simplification efforts are yielding results with corporate costs ahead of plan.
Margins grew by 70 basis points consistent with our expectations.
CFOA is up 63% year-to-date and weve repurchased $3 billion of stock.
Importantly in this environment we remain on track for our 2012 framework.
For orders orders were 21.5 billion just in context for orders factoring in some of the big items.
They were up 4% ex-wind and excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Orders pricing was positive for the quarter and year-to-date.
The down cycle and wind is as expected and gas turbine orders were fairly strong.
We saw about $1 billion of orders push out from third quarter to fourth quarter and our backlog position is strong as we enter the fourth quarter and facing into 2013.
Our key growth engines remain on track.
In fact every industrial business had positive organic growth in the quarter.
Growth markets expanded by 9% including in China up 23% Africa up 22% and Latin America up 21% we expect six of nine growth regions to have double-digit order growth at 12.
We had the highest services backlog in our history with expanding margins.
And weve launched successful products including the Flex 60 new subsea technology and new appliances.
And our new aircraft engines are winning high market share.
With our investments in place we should be able to sustain a solid growth rate into the future.
Our margins are a good story growing 70 basis points to 14.4%.
We had expansion in every business including Energy if you exclude the impact of our Wind business.
The fundamentals remain strong as we finish the year.
Our value gap will be positive in both 2012 and 2013.
We remain on track for $2 billion-plus and structural cost-out to simplification efforts.
We were able to do significant restructuring in the quarter.
Were on track for 100 basis points of improvement in 2012 and 2013 in line with our plans.
Cash is a decent story with year-to-date total of $10.7 billion up 63%.
The dividend from capital is a positive story for investors.
Our industrial CFOA has been pressured by an unusual equipment build which should have positive growth in the fourth quarter.
Were executing our capital allocation plans.
Year-to-date weve paid out $5.4 billion in dividends and bought back $3 billion of GE stock.
Our balance sheet is very strong and we end the quarter with $85 billion of consolidated cash.
Now over to Keith to review operations.
Thanks Jeff.
Im going to start with the third quarter summary.
We had continuing operations revenues of $36.3 billion.
That was reported up 3% ex-FX.
Revenues were up 6%.
Industrial sales of $24.7 billion are up 7% 10% ex-FX.
GE Capital revenues of $11.4 billion were down 5% as we continue to reduce our assets.
And our operating earnings of $3.8 billion were up 10%.
Operating earnings per share of $.36 were up 13% and you can see the 13% excludes the impact of last years third quarter preferred stock redemption commitment which youll remember was an 8% reduction in equity obviously not having a repeat of that results in the huge fees here.
So operating EPS is up 50% continuing and net EPS are 43% and 50%.
Continuing EPS includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations which Ill cover on the next page.
As Jeff said year-to-date cash of $10.7 billion was up 63% including the dividends from GE capital.
And for taxes the GE rate 21% is consistent with the low 20s rate we forecast in the first two quarters and the year-to-date rate is 22%.
The 4% GE Capital rates consistent with the mid single-digit rate that we forecasted at the end of the second quarter and we continue to expect to finish the year with a mid-single digit GE Capital tax rate.
On the right side you can see the segment results with total Industrial segment profit up 11% and its great to have all five industrial segments delivering positive earnings growth.
GE Capital also had another strong quarter with earnings up 11% so overall a strong segment growth quarters.
Im going to cover each of these segments in more detail in a minute.
Before I get into those business results Ill take you through the other items from Q3.
As we mentioned at the infrastructure investor meeting we had $0.03 in one-time benefits related to the gain from NBCUniversal.
The majority of the benefit was driven by the A&amp;E transaction.
NBCU sold its remaining 16% stake in A&amp;E and our share of the gain was $0.03 after tax.
We also had $0.03 after tax of restructuring and other charges in the quarter.
These charges related primarily to continued cost structure improvements in Energy Healthcare Aviation HNBS and GE capital.
We also had a charge in the quarter related to the planned disposition of one of our plants as well as costs related to the acquisitions.
On the bottom of the page there was minimal net impact from discontinued operations in the quarter.
We resolved an outstanding item related to the plastics disposition that resulted in a $0.01 gain at the parent.
And for WMC we had $1.3 billion of claims come in in 3Q.
Thats significantly less in the second quarter but higher than we had previously expected and that resulted in an after-tax reserve impact of $78 million in the quarter.
So overall EPS and one-time benefits and costs were relatively offsetting here.
So next Im going to go to the businesses and Ill start with Energy.
Before I get into it this is the final quarter that were going to be reporting Energy infrastructure on this basis and so for the fourth quarter well be reporting the three new businesses after the reorganization: Power and Water Oil and Gas and Energy Management.
And later this quarter well begin providing you with historical data recast into these three businesses so you can begin modeling on that basis.
Let me look at the total business.
Ill start with Energy first.
Orders of $6.5 billion were down 17%.
Weve said it before but the impact of Wind is huge here.
Ex-Wind Energy orders were flat year-over-year.
Equipment orders of $3.4 billion were down 24%.
Again ex-Wind equipment orders were up 11%.
Thermal orders of $1 billion were up over 160% and we had orders for 29 gas turbines versus 16 last year.
Renewable orders of $518 million were down 72%.
We had orders for 241 wind turbines versus 781 last year.
Total equipment order pricing was down 1.4% with Thermal down 2.6% and Renewable down 4.2%.
Year-to-date Thermal order pricing is private positive the 0.8% and our estimate for the whole year is about flat for Thermal order pricing.
Service orders of $3.1 billion were down 8% by declines in Energy Management.
Power Generation services of $1.7 billion were up 1%.
Revenues of $8.9 billion were up 17% driven by the strong volume growth.
We had Equipment revenue of $5.5 billion which was up 30%.
We had Renewable revenue of $2.1 billion which was up 61%.
We shipped a 1 014 wind turbines versus 633 last year.
Aeroderivative revenues of $679 million were up 84% on higher units we had 44 units this year versus 31 last year and also larger units.
Thermal revenues of $1.6 billion were down 19% driven by lower balance of Plant revenues lower pricing and foreign exchange.
Service revenues of $3.4 billion up 1% driven by Power and Water services.
And segment profit of $1.2 billion was up 11% as the benefits of all that strong volume and our services strength more than offset the lower pricing.
Power Gen services operating profit was up 15% in Q3.
Now weve been breaking out the impact of wind because it masks the remaining business performance.
If you take a look in the third quarter for energy x-wind in total revenues would be up 8% segment profits up 20% and margins wouldve been up 146 basis points.
Oil and Gas they had another great quarter.
Orders of $4.2 billion were up 7% up 12% SFX.
Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were up 10% driven by growth in turbo-machinery and subsea systems.
We had $300 million of orders for the Shineer LNG project we had over $200 million of orders for the Westies pipeline projects in China and we also had over $500 million of order push-outs for two projects that were working on in Angola and Brazil.
Service orders of $2 billion were up 3% up 7% SFX and the orders price index was up 1.7% sixth consecutive quarter of positive price for this business.
We added $500 million to the backlog in Q3.
Revenues of $3.7 billion were up 4% up 11% SFX.
And Equipment revenues of $1.9 billion were up 2%; Service revenues of $1.8 billion were up 6%.
Segment profit of $534 million was up 18% driven by strong volume growth and lower-cost which were partially offset by negative foreign exchange.
And overall that resulted in 1.7 points of our profit expansion.
So another good quarter for the Energy and Oil and Gas and Energy Infrastructure in total and our current estimate for Energy Infrastructure segment is that profit growth will be about 10% for the total year 2012.
Next is Aviation.
Orders of $5.2 billion were down 8%.
Commercial Engine orders of $918 million were down 51%.
When you have backlogs of two to seven years depending on the engine model were going to have some quarters with tough comparisons.
We also had over $500 million of Commercial Aviation order push-outs for two customers in Asia this quarter.
Military Equipment orders of $1.1 billion were up 104% driven by transports and Navy F-18 fighters.
Service orders of $2.6 billion were down 11%.
Our third quarter spares average daily order rate was $22 million per day which was down 18% versus last year but its up from the second quarter and it seems to have stabilized.
We continue to get pricing on new orders with total orders pricing up 2.3% in the quarter.
Even with the tough order comparisons overall book-to-bill was 1.09 with both Equipment and Service up over one.
Revenue of $4.8 billion was down 1%.
Equipment revenues of $2.3 billion and Service revenues of $2.4 billion were both down 1%.
We shipped 520 commercial engines versus 565 last year.
And in the quarter we shipped 25 GEnx units versus 28 last year.
Segment profit of $924 million was up 7% as the benefits of positive value GAAP and lower costs more than offset the impact of the one-time gain last year from the sale of our Rings business.
The business improved operating margin rates 150 basis points in the quarter and if you exclude the impact of last years gain our profit wouldve been up 17% and our profit rate would have been up 270 basis points.
Transportation.
The Transportation business delivered another great quarter.
Orders of $1.2 billion were up 21%.
Orders pricing was up six-tenths of a percent.
Equipment orders of $561 million up 28% driven by higher international locomotive kits.
And Service orders of $666 million were up 16%.
Revenue of $1.4 billion was up 9% on strong volume.
Equipment revenues of $781 million were up 5% driven by off-highway vehicle equipment which was up 55% partially offset by a lower locomotive revenues which were down 13%.
We shipped 146 locomotives in the quarter versus 169 last year and were on track for a total year estimate of 650 units.
Service revenues of 627 million were up 16%.
Segment profit of 265 million was up 35% driven by the positive value gap and also lower cost and our operating here increased 360 basis points in the quarter.
Next is Healthcare.
The U.S.
market was a little tougher than expected in the quarter.
Orders of 4.6 billion were down 1%.
Theyre up 3% ex-FX.
Equipment orders of 2.6 billion were also down 1% up 3% ex-FX driven by the developed markets down 5% partially offset by the emerging markets which were up 9%.
Just some of the numbers on orders U.S.
was down 6% Europe was down 11% driven by Southern Europe.
China was up 19% Middle East Africa Eastern Europe were up 31%.
India was down 17%.
By modality CT was down 4% MR was down 9%.
Life Sciences was up 3% and ultrasound was up 1%.
Service orders of 2 billion were down 1% also driven by Europe down 12% and revenues of 4.3 billion were down 1% or were up three points FX adjusted.
Emerging markets were the strength here up 13% offsetting the developed markets which were down 4%.
Segment profit of 620 million was up 2% as the benefits of the volume growth in cost reductions more than offset lower pricing in some inflation.
As a result operating profit rate was up 40 basis points in the quarter.
On the right side home and business solutions delivered positive results despite a continued tough environment.
Revenues of 2.1 billion were up 1% as appliance revenues were up nine offsetting the lighting revenues which were down nine.
For appliances were seeing some contract channel strength.
Contract channel revenues were up 22% driven by housing starts and retail sales were up 1%.
Pricing is up and year-to-date share is up about 1.1 points and the new products continue to be well received in the marketplace.
Lighting continue to see volume pressure in both the U.S.
and Europe.
And overall for the business segment profit of 61 million was up 61% driven by the higher pricing which was partially offset by material inflation and the lighting lower lighting volume.
So next is GE Capital.
Mike Neal and the team delivered a strong quarter.
Revenues of $11.4 billion were down 5% in line with assets which were down 7%.
Net income of $1.7 billion was up 11% driven by improvements in real estate as well as lower margin impairments partially offset by higher credit costs and of course lower assets.
We ended the quarter with $425 billion of ending investment a quarter ahead of our target and we expect any to continue to decline further in the fourth quarter.
Our net interest margin was 4.9% up 50 basis points.
There are more details on GE capital and capital levels in the supplemental deck that we posted this morning.
On the right side you can see the asset quality metrics were stable in the quarter.
30-day delinquencies ere down in mortgage driven by improved collections and they were up our U.S.
retail business driven by normal 3Q seasonality.
Delinquencies were close to flat in both real estate and CLL.
Volume was up 2% driven by consumer volume up 5%.
Commercial volume down 5% as we continue to originate the strong returns.
Non-core ENI was down 6 billion in Q3 versus Q2.
Were substantially done with our 2012 long-term funding our capital position strengthened in the quarter and even after paying 5.4 billion of dividends we ended Q3 with Tier 1 common with 10.2% of 56 basis points.
For some comments by business Ill start with CLL.
Commercial lending and leasing business assets were down 8% as we continue to reduce our non-core assets including third party funding for Penske and the CECO disposition.
Commercial volume in the Americas of 7.2 billion was down 3% while we maintain our pricing on new business to earn over 2% return on investment.
Overall earnings of 568 million were down 17%.
Its driven by lower assets its driven by one loss of 32 million loss on one account in Europe and its driven by continued pressure in Italy about $20 million.
Even with those items our European business earned over $40 million and the Americas earned $545 million which was flat with last year and up 3% from the second quarter.
For consumer our consumer assets were down 3%.
Its driven by runoff in Europe and Asia partially offset by growth in U.S.
retail.
Earnings of $749 million were down 7% driven by higher retail reserves in the U.S.
The impact to lower assets and our non-core business partially offset by the 80 million gain we had from our selling our 7.6% of our whole stake in BAY the bank in Thailand.
The U.S.
retail business earned $445 million which was down 4% as the benefits of higher assets and better margins were offset by the higher loss provisions due to additional segmentation of the portfolio more in line with industry standards.
Our core European business earned $119 million which was down 3% on lower assets.
For real estate real estate continued to deliver positive performance in the quarter earnings of $217 million were up $300 million from last year.
They were about flat with Q2.
The earnings improvements was driven by lower losses and impairments tax benefits and higher core income.
During Q3 we sold 165 properties for $1.7 billion realizing $121 million of after-tax gains up $55 million from last year.
We continue to shrink our real estate book as well.
Assets of $55 billion were down 14% versus last year.
Theyre down 4% versus Q2.
And in addition we closed the business properties disposition in October which result in another $5 billion reduction in Q4.
Next is GECAS GECAS had another great quarter.
Earnings of $251 million were up 21% driven by higher core income.
Partially offset by slightly higher impairments year-over-year.
Net impairments this year were $135 million after tax versus $107 million last year.
Portfolio quality continues to be strong with only $50 million of non-earnings and only three aircraft on the ground.
Energy Financial Service earnings of $152 million were up 67% driven by asset sales $132 million driven by asset sales.
We completed $600 million of volume in Q3 at 5% ROIC.
So overall another positive quarter for GE Capital.
As we look at finishing the year we think the $1.7 billion net income from third quarter is a good proxy for the fourth quarter outlook.
We expect lower GECAS impairments.
Wed expect to not have the BAY gain repeat.
And we continue to have loss of earnings from shrinking assets ahead of schedule so that is our view for third quarter look at run rate into fourth quarter.
With that let me turn it back to Jeff.
Great Keith.
Thanks.
Look on the operating framework we really have no material changes for the 2012 operating framework.
We are on track for double-digit earnings growth in total and for Industrial and Financial Services earnings.
Our outlook for the Industrial segments remained in line with our September meeting.
You can see in the corporate cost line that our simplification efforts are working and sustainable and we are lower estimate for the year to $2.8 billion based on third quarter performance.
CFOA is on track and industrial organic revenue growth has been about 10% year-to-date.
We expect it to be about 10% for the year.
We believe that capital revenue will decline about 10% based on the E&amp;I reduction ahead of plan so total revenue for the entire company will be up about 3% in 2012.
So to summarize lets recap the big factors for investors and how we performed against those objectives.
Industrial earnings growth results remain positive.
This is fueled by good organic growth and momentum in margin enhancement.
And you know as I said earlier the simplification efforts really are generating results.
Were executing our plan with GE Capital making a smaller more profitable and restoring dividend to the parent.
We have returned a $8.4 billion to investors year-to-date through dividend and buyback.
We are executing a balance capital allocation plan of growing dividends in line with earnings value-creating buybacks and bolt-on acquisitions in the $1 billion to $3 billion range.
The GE team continues to execute in a volatile environment.
We expect to continue to outperform in 2012 and 2013.
Now back to Trevor for questions.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks Keith.
Chanelle why dont we open the phone lines for questions?  (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Good morning Scott.
One of the things when we try to kind of model out margins and sustainable margin expansion going forward I mean can you help us understand if theres any way to think about the 70 basis points? How much of that was value gap? How much of that is kind of from past restructuring? Any way to carve that up a bit? Sure.
If you look in the third quarter Scott value gap was about $50 million drag actually in the quarter.
That was two-tenths of a point of drag.
Mix equipment versus services and other mix was about a half point of drag 120 million or so.
And cost out is the real driver here.
Its over $500 million.
Its 1.4 points of improvement and its across the board.
Its lower variable costs.
Its better base cost performance with this volume and its simplification efforts are starting to kick in.
So I think I dont have it relative to prior restructuring as you asked but I think thats a good framework for the third quarter.
Its great that the margins have turn positive here.
And our expectation is that this margin improvement will continue in the fourth quarter and will increase obviously from the third quarter level to get us to our goal of the total year.
We still think value gap Scott will be positive for the year.
Its been up more than $100 million year-to-date before Q3.
So for the total year it will be slightly positive.
So for the total year itll be positive and I expect its going to be positive again in 2013 as well.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Jeff going back to kind of your beginning remarks on the macro view I mean it seems that looking at some of the results from your peers that things have degraded a bit in the last couple months.
I mean when youre thinking about your planning scenarios for really 2013 because Im guessing youre in our process now what are the  such a wide range of outcomes out there I mean what are you guys planning for? And how do you  and I dont know how you want to comment on it whether you dial it down by region and what kind of GDP assumptions or whether you just want to talk about it more subjectively but what do you plan for I guess? Well Scott I think youve got to have a pretty  youve got to factor in a number of different scenarios.
I think most people are assuming that the fiscal cliff gets resolved in some way and I dont think were alone on that one.
And then I think just when I look at orders in our growth regions well have six growth regions that have double-digit orders growth for the year.
Six of nine.
Thats pretty good Scott.
Thats  that gives me some comfort when I look at the resource rich and rising Asia and so we still see decent opportunities in China.
We still see decent opportunities in the Middle East and Latin America Russia places like that.
And then Europes going to be a grind.
Europes going to be  were not assuming that Europe gets any better.
So I think were kind of looking at 2013 being kind of like 2012 with the big variable being the fiscal cliff and were ready if it doesnt go through but were kind of making the same assessment most people do that somehow it gets result.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Thanks guys.
Ill pass it on.
Great.
Okay Scott.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa JPMorgan.
Hey.
Good morning.
Hey Steve.
Energy Infrastructure now I guess up 10% for the year.
What was the expectation prior to this? It seems like thats  that the growth slows pretty materially in the fourth quarter.
Is that timing around Wind or something like that? Yeah theres another obviously large chunk of revenue in of Wind in the fourth quarter.
Thats  it is a drag on us.
I think thats probably the biggest factor for us.
I mean we still expect Energy to be up double-digit for the year.
Year-to-date theyre up about 12% and for the total year itll be up 10% and theyll be up in the mid-single digits in the fourth quarter here for us.
Right.
And so how does that kind of make you feel heading into next year I guess outside of wind and the trends there? And also I guess you talked about orders pricing being up 8% year-to-date but its going to come in flat which means youre going to have a pretty tough orders number orders pricing number in the fourth quarter.
Does that change the views at all that you presented at the Investor Day several weeks ago? No just to clear up this.
Its 0.8% year-to-date through the third quarter and were saying we expect it to be flat or slightly positive so I  its not a big change for the  theres no change in the fourth quarter and thats our total year estimate that we stuck to Steve.
So no I think if you go by business youve got to feel great about Oil and Gas.
We continue to build backlog.
Our orders our strong.
We had some orders slip even in the quarter.
The outlook is very strong for next year as we head into the fourth quarter.
For Energy itself you feel great about the move to gas around the world.
Its certainly helping us in terms of our service outlook and weve got to continue to fight for every order they have been in the gas turbines side.
Were going to have  we think well have growing megawatts of gas turbines sold in the outlook.
Yeah Steve at the end of September we kind of said Power and Water would be up in 2012 and flat in 2013 and it would be up really double digits ex-Wind in 2013.
I think we still thats true.
True.
Thats the forecast.
We think Oil and Gas would be up double digits this year and next.
We still think thats true.
And we think Energy Management would be up double digits in 2012 and 2013 and we still think thats true.
So I think its pretty consistent with what we said at the infrastructure day.
Okay.
And then in Aviation the service revenues were only down one but the service orders were down double digit.
Whats going on there and this timing around the price increase that pulled forward and some business last year.
Can you maybe just talk about what youre seeing as things stabilized on the spare stuff or maybe just give a quick update there? Yeah I think spares outlook seem to stabilize going from the third quarter.
In the second quarter the spares rate was 20.6.
In the third quarter its 22.
Our outlook in the fourth quarter is similar to that.
So right now in the third quarter youre dealing with the biggest negative variance year-over-year and were kind of laughing ourselves on that.
Our expectation is that at some point revenue past your miles are still positive year-over-year.
Freight is down slightly.
But at the end of the day with all of these flights going on cycles occurring theres going to be a pent-up demand for service here and we expect that to be positive for 2013.
So in the fourth quarter were not counting on that.
Were counting on the spares orders to be about where they are today and we think that will be a positive in 2013 as I said.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
All right Steve.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Hey Nigel.
Hi Nigel.
Yeah so aviation margins just about the prior gain where were obviously very strong can you maybe talk about how the GEnx you know the learning curve on GEnx is impacting the comparisons? In the quarter theres a couple factors going on around GEnx.
First of all you have just a few lower units so thats a little bit positive year-over-year.
We had 28 units last year 25 this year.
And then on a margin per unit we continue to see good improvement.
Were on track for our cost reductions as we come down the learning curve and the other thing is were moving into better commercial arrangements as we get out of those launch orders for the GEnx shipments.
So I think its on track.
Its positive.
In the fourth quarter were going to have a big increase in shipments here and were going to go up.
The total year were expecting somewhere around 125 shipments I think on GEnx engines so youre going to have  and in third quarter theyre down a little.
In the fourth quarter were going to go from about 35 last year to close to 60 this year.
Okay.
But as the combination margins materially on the GEnx this last year? Yeah I think the learning curve is down substantially Nigel and what Keith said is that the original launch orders are usually the most negative from a CM rate to the combination of those two things I think builds every year.
So that gets better in 2013.
Youre probably seeing 10% improvement in margins year-over-year 11 to 12.
Okay.
And then switching to Thermal energy service I think that was up 1% what about that number being impacted by deferrals on some of their retro maintenance pedals because of the low gas price? If you look at the actual business in Q3 had revenue I think kick up 11 and earnings up 15 or something like that? Yes.
Service PGS Power Gen services.
Yes.
So the run rate is not  its still a little bit lumpy but the run rates not bad and then on the ongoing order rate was up 1% and we still think that some of those are really based on how hard the units are running and that unwinds itself.
And then in Europe we have a relatively big install base in Europe and that has to a certain extent the opposite issue.
Its not running.
But I think in the U.S.
therell be decent growth as time goes on.
I think the performance in the quarter Power Gen services was...
Pretty good.
15 was a pretty good quarter.
Right.
And then just finally you mentioned you called out a couple of order deferrals push out into 4Q.
To what extent is that just normal lumpiness in the business into an extent you think thats been impacted by some concerns around the macro? Well I just think youre always going to have some of that with the large orders were dealing with.
I mean there was really nothing on the Asia aviation orders other than just timing of approvals and it just didnt happen in the quarter that we originally estimated it.
I think that some of the oil and gas orders those involved a lot of parties with large engine energy contractors and government approvals and so I think that may be more typical that youre always going to have something pushing around but for us over $1 billion seem to really push out of the quarter.
There were other orders that pushed that seemed like normal quarterly things for us but there were over 1 billion that we wouldve called out as pushing out.
Thats great.
Take you very much.
Thanks Nigel.
Our next question comes from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Thanks and good morning.
Hey Steve.
Hey Steve.
Hey.
Can I just switch over to GE Capital first.
Just help me understand again you mentioned the Thai gains what other gains were in there and how much again was that Thai gain? And were there any other gains baked into the GE Capital reporting numbers as sort of a normal course of business? Yeah the Thai gain was $80 million from the sale of some of our shares in BAY.
We also had the gains in real estate that I talked about from selling properties.
And we had one other gain that was over $50 million in the quarter.
It was the sale of the pipeline in EFS so in the EFS results that was the large driver of the earnings year-over-year.
Was that 15 or 50? Its supposed to be the ones  58.
Oh 58.
Okay.
58 after-tax gain.
Okay.
And then was there  there wasnt anything  I had heard something about Irish mortgage bank theres nothing on that? I dont have anything on Irish mortgage.
I think it was closed.
The deal that we previously announced.
Okay.
Great.
And then the consumer reserve I just saw it go up from $3.1 billion to $3.4 billion.
Im looking at the credit metrics you are showing in the supplemental Im sorry in the regular.
I dont  Im not quite sure I see the connection.
Can you just give me some color for the overall increase in reserving and provisioning and what was driving some of that? Sure.
As I mentioned on the reserves in Consumer we did update the reserve practice for some more granular segmentation loss types.
Essentially what we are doing is were doing a more detailed look at to determine the period of time from the loss event to the write-off the incurred loss period its called.
So we did some of that work in the third quarter.
The incurred loss period was a little longer using that segmentation.
It increased our reserves about $200 million in the U.S.
Retail Finance business in the quarter.
Outside of that we had the normal seasonality which did contribute and we had asset growth which contributed to reserve growth quarter-over-quarter and also year-over-year on asset growth.
So if you look though in total assets were up 10 on retail finance volumes up 10.
The charge-off rate are down Steve.
Theyre down 24 basis points year-over-year 36 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Delinquencies are down 36 points year-over-year.
So the fundamentals of this business are still very good.
It really is a detailed segmentation of the portfolio that added a couple hundred million dollars to the reserves as opposed to anything to do with asset quality Okay.
And any impairments on GECAS? Yeah.
In GECAS we had impairments.
The total number is about 135 after tax in the quarter.
I think in general I would say that some classic 737s were in there.
Some A320s old A320s older A320s as well as 50-seat regional jets are probably the three things that would make up that number.
Okay.
And last let me just sneak in one industrial question.
On the 29 gas turbines what countries and I know a gross number any cancellations or deferrals of just the turbine side too? Yeah there were no cancellations in the quarter.
In terms of where the turbines were there were quite few from Saudi Arabia.
Hang on one second here.
Im mostly interested in the U.S.
I have zero in the U.S.
We had 5 in China 8 in Saudi 2 in Algeria 2 in Turkey 7 in Iraq 2 in Egypt.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys Yep.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question comes from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Morning.
Hey Andrew.
A question on GE Capital as we look at ROI on new business whats the sequential trend by business within GE Capital? Well I will give you a few of them.
If you look at the Americas for the Commercial business second quarter was 2.4 third 2.3.
If you look at Asia and CLL 1.9 1.9.
If you look at Asia consumer 3.6 3.4.
If you look at Europe CLL was 2.1 in the second quarter its 1.7 in the third quarter.
If you look at retail for us in the U.S.
4.7 in the second quarter 5.3.
So overall as I showed you the net interest margins were up 50 basis points and our new business ROIs are still hanging in there on new business volume.
All right.
Sure.
And just also on GE Capital as you extract more capital out of GE Capital what should we expect for the pace of share buybacks relative to what we saw the quarter? Well we like the buyback pace in the quarter over $2 billion a little over $2 billion.
Our objective as we said is to continue to prioritize the dividend and grow that in line with earnings.
We continue to have that point the buyback and our objective is to retire the shares that we shipped before the financial crisis over the next several years.
And were doing a pretty good job on getting after that.
And the cash from GE Capital obviously is a big help so if we can continue to get the cash  although this year weve already gotten all the special dividends now we get the regular dividend on earnings.
Thats going to help us a lot with the buyback.
And based on the market well see what happens in the fourth quarter.
We expect to retire somewhere between 125 and 150 million shares this year.
Thank you very much.
Yep.
Thanks.
Next question comes from Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Hey Deane.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey just a clarification first just on the headlines coming up about the revenue guidance total revenue guidance going from 5% to 3%.
So we already  you told us that GE Capital revenues are down maybe theres some FX but just if you could parse out for us what the delta is? That was the big Its really GE Capital.
Okay.
That...
And I dont know if anybodys really forecasting FX.
Yeah.
Obviously FX had a big impact on us in the quarter; certainly industrially.
But the change on the framework that we showed you was what Jeff said.
The GE Capital total year revenues going to be down closer to 10 than 5.
And we would have thought that was worth updating.
Good.
Just want to make sure because theres a couple of headlines out there and that clears that up.
And then on the cash flow you said there was some equipment build in the third quarter; that gets resolved.
Whats the business? And any color there regarding the size? Sure.
Obviously weve built up some working capital to support our fourth quarter shipments.
You look at  its mostly in energy.
Energys working capital bill was $1.3 billion through the third quarter.
And were expecting a big fourth quarter in terms of deliveries.
If you look at the profile last year third quarter to fourth quarter we had a big revenue increase between the quarters.
We also had a significant increase in cash flow between third quarter and fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter will be our biggest cash flow period for the year.
And were expecting a profile similar to last year; a little higher than last year in terms of cash coming out of Industrial in the fourth quarter.
And progress on the red assets at GE Capital? I dont have a specific number.
I know in total were down about $6 billion.
How much? $6 billion on quarter-over-quarter.
Yeah.
Theres about $70 billion on balance sheet today on the red assets.
So in the quarter we felt great about it.
You look at the runoff we had.
I can just give you some numbers on some things that are down year-over-year.
U.K.
Home Lendings down $1 billion Deane France is down $1.5 billion Polands down $1.3 billion Spains down $1 billion.
Those are all non-core assets that were running off here in a pretty good pace.
Great.
Just last question from me is maybe some commentary regarding the debt issue for the parent because that certainly doesnt happen often and its never a better time to issue debt when you dont really need the financing.
But just give us a context of $7 billion; you did it in three consoles use of that proceeds? Yeah it kind of goes back to the first question about what you think about the environment.
I mean as we look forward we have a $5 billion debt in GE that matures February and so we decided that we really didnt want to be trying to replace that debt in an environment where the fiscal cliff may be a disruptor or not.
So we decided to go in the fourth quarter.
We like the rates.
As you said we did $7 billion.
Well have a big-interest savings if you look on that debt.
Well probably have annual savings around $70 million at the rates that we did that debt at with a mix of 5 10 and 30 years as you know.
So we decided to get that out of the way.
We know we have to do; we didnt want to do it in a disrupted environment.
We like the rates where they are.
It creates a savings for us.
Now we do have a little higher interest cost in the fourth quarter because of that but for us it just seems like the right thing to do.
Thats real helpful.
Thank you.
Deane? Deane are you clear on the revenue point? Absolutely.
I just want it clear to everybody.
Good.
Yeah appreciate it.
Thanks.
Great.
Our next question comes from John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey John good morning.
John.
Hi guys.
Keith maybe a question for you.
Its really on the buffet and warrants.
With your stock price sort of where it is Im wondering what are you thinking of in terms of possibly maybe buying them in advance? And if you dont do that is very dilutionary impact kind of on a net basis of this that provides for headwind that maybe we should be thinking about? Yeah John if you think about it the dilution is on amounts above $22.25.
Right.
And its de minimis.
Wed love to have the stock to go up to $25.25.
That would be less than $400 million of dilution.
I think its 135 million shares that youre talking about the dilution on.
So Im thrilled that were in the money on them.
And yet were going to have to deal with the dilution but I dont think its a big deal for investors.
Okay.
That clears that up.
With zero U.S.
gas turbine orders can you just remind us what is your sort of latest thought toward the timing of a U.S.
gas turbine cycle recovery? Years and maybe you could blend that in with them with a little bit of pricing kind of what you are seeing on the pricing side that sort of thing? John I would just go back to what Steve basically said in September.
We think there is activity right now thats going on thatll turn into commitments next year.
So I think as you go into 2013 and into 2014 those commitments will go into orders.
And I think that pace will grow as each year goes by.
So were seeing quoting activity right now.
We expect to book some orders next year and we think thatll grow over time.
I think the good news is that gas is the fuel of choice and as new capacity comes in its going to be gas turbines.
So if the trajectory holds presumably the price though doesnt start to meaningfully kick in until what 2014? If the timeline...
Look I think the good news John is that were  weve been kind of firming a bottom right now.
So I think you could see some positive OPI into 2013 not great but some positive just because I think weve been trying for the last period of time.
So I think that will start improving and then I think it accelerate as time goes on.
Just lastly Jeff with the cash and the cash position in pretty robust shape what are your thoughts toward maybe upping your M&amp;A spend targets? Just even given the macro sluggish environment that might be perhaps prompting more companies to consider selling or make more properties available.
What are your thoughts here? I go back John to our disciplines.
I think dividend in line with earnings.
We think the dividend is really important.
Continuing to buy back stock with an eye on getting back to 10 billion shares at some point and the $1 billion to $3 billion.
So if we see a good acquisition in that range that meets our hurdle rates well go for it.
But its not burning a hole in our pocket and we dont think we need it to do what we need to do in 2013.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Thanks John.
Our next question comes from Shannon OCallaghan with Nomura.
Good morning guys.
Hey Shannon.
Hey.
So just back on the re-segmentation of the U.S.
retail business what was the thought process behind making that choice? And then the extra provision in the quarter was that a sort of the catch-up? Or whats the sort of normalized annual hit to earnings relative to the way you used to segment it? Yeah I think were going through a process in the retail finance business to take a look at our reserve practices and our segmentation relative to industry standards.
In the quarter we did a couple of factors.
We did aged accounts and we did fraudulent accounts.
I mean were basically trying to identify individual events and then go back and say how long is the incurred loss period for that type of event? And there will be  there are other categories were still looking at: if people pass away if people reach settlements if people have bankruptcies.
So were basically trying to segment that book into very detailed and more conservative realistically more conservative look at reserve positions based on when the incurred loss period actually started.
So I think in the quarter theres no more to come from those categories.
I think were going to continue to look at these other categories.
To us were just trying to make sure that were in line with industry practices and its something that were going to do through fourth quarter and first quarter I believe.
Okay.
Any so any estimate of sort of what the more conservative method is in terms of a dollar amount on the earnings impact for a year? I dont.
Id say the one thing Id look at is if I think about the outlook from third quarter to fourth quarter I think retail finance probably has an outlook thats similar in the fourth quarter to what they had the third quarter.
Okay.
Even though theyve had this one-time thing I think if you look at the outlook its probably going to be  based on volume growth and based on whatever were doing with reserves our outlook is probably close to what we had in the third quarter.
Okay.
And then just Energy into 4Q I mean can you give us a little more feel on the number of sort of wind turbine units and the pressure youre expecting? I mean the margin this quarter was like 13.6% for sort of the pure Energy business.
You normally have this seasonal uptick but youve got this pressure.
Can you maybe gauge where you see those going? I gave you the total number if the total years going to be up 10% you look at where we are third quarter to date I think you can get a pretty good estimate of what we think the margin is for Energy for the fourth quarter.
I dont have the exact dollars but that maths pretty clear.
And what are you thinking for wind turbine units? Its 750 or so units.
Its 700 yeah.
So 750 or so units.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jeff.
Hi.
How are you doing? Hi Jeff.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I just want to drill a little farther into power service if we could.
Just some color on what you are actually seeing your customers do? So youre running at higher utilization I wonder if theres some dynamic though that we are running more base load as opposed to kind of the peaking cycles and thats  is that playing into what seems to be softer order there than I guess we would all guess given kind of the trends in the business right now? I think you heard from some of this from Steve Bowles in the infrastructure meeting Jeff.
You know basically youre absolutely right.
I mean people are running the gas turbines a lot more and they are running them as base load.
And that is ultimately good news and I think the idea is going to be youre going to have either sooner maintenance needs or maybe there will be a little deeper overhaul when you get into repair these units when they do have an overhaul.
But Steves message was that these were going to pull in running these things at full base load power at this point is maybe pulling overhauls by three months six months in the out years.
These overhauls are pretty well scheduled based on times the units will run.
So I think it is a positive.
I think its all positive.
But I think its a little further out there but right now they are definitely running gas turbine units a lot more on the running of this baseload.
Jeff we said I think in September that we expected good earnings growth from Power Gen services in 2013 and we dont see anything that changes that assessment.
Yeah I thought the comment actually was flattish for 2013 on services no? Flattish overall for the Power and Water business.
Yeah flattish for the Power and Water business but for services we expect growth.
We expect wind to be negative.
As we get closer to the wind down turn is it actually playing in a way you thought in terms of the magnitude of drop next year? Jeff it is.
I think we expect revenues will be down probably 40% something like that next year and we have always said that it would be about $0.03 of headwind next year.
And that really assumes kind of no market in the US.
There is some discussion about whether or not there is a production tax credit as you do some kind of tax deal at the end of the year.
And if there is one I think that would be good for the business but its not something we are counting on.
And then finally just thinking about cash flow I mean it does look like a challenge in Q4.
The idea of the working capital draws is understandable.
But does that cash flow forecast does it also predicated on particular order strength in the fourth quarter that would drive deposits or progress payments? Is that any part of it? Not really Jeff.
I think progress remains a headwind.
Its an unusual year just because the spike in wind and stuff like that so this is just been an unusual year from that standpoint.
But we see the working capital levers for cash...
Theyre pretty similar profile to last year the fourth quarter.
I think the one difference is you have the wind progress coming down and we factored that in Jeff.
We dont have any replenishment in the wind progress in the forecast and basically we are shipping that in the fourth quarter.
So I think we take that into account but its a big fourth quarter and we have to execute.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Yep.
Thanks Jeff.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hi Julian.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Firstly on Aviation I wanted to follow-up on your comments around some push-outs at some Asian carriers.
And also in the segment profit growth I mean you call out the value gas and productivity driving up EBIT year-on-year.
I just wanted to check what the latest thoughts were on R&amp;D you know around the headwinds there in light of the Leap 1a and 1b designs being frozen.
Are you still on track for R&amp;D to stop moving flat to down in 2013? Yeah we are on track for the R&amp;D.
If you look at the margins in the quarter stronger pricing was a big part of it and cost productivity with the other part that aviation got and we expect those two factors to continue.
If you look at R&amp;D and Aviation itself it was up about it was down about 7% and its holding steady around 5% of revenue.
So as a percent of revenue as we said we dont expect this to continue to be a drag.
Well see what happens as we get into 2013 but we like the position we are in those engines.
Weve gone to design freeze on two of the three versions of LEAP and were on track for the design freeze on schedule for the third version.
Thanks.
Just the comments around some of the push outs on the OE parts? The push outs? Yes.
Yes.
Yeah its purely  my understanding of it is purely a signature approval and its not someone wondering whether theyre going to take these planes.
So were highly confident that these orders are going to happen in the fourth quarter and its two customers and its about $500 million now.
Again if you remember last year in the fourth quarter I think equipment was up 20 plus percent.
We had huge orders quarter.
Huge order quarter in aviation so yeah again with these backlogs were going to have that type of lumpiness but these orders its not like someone worrying about their fleet planning or anything.
Got it.
And then just second on healthcare the picture of the past 12 months has been very good growth in emerging markets Europe very weak in the U.S.
kind of hanging on.
Looking at the U.S.
equipment order trends last couple quarters I mean is there  are you worried about starting to rollover? I mean maybe six months from now the numbers are looking down kind of high single digit that sort of rate as youre looking at U.S.
healthcare specifically? I dont see that Julian.
I think its around flat and its going to continue to be around flat and theres nothing that our guys see that suggest its getting materially worse as time goes on.
I just think its a tough market but its not like Europe.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yup.
Great.
Chanelle we have  I want to finish up by 9:30 because of some other earnings calls.
Lets take a couple more than close out.
Will do.
Our next question comes from Jason Feldman with UBS.
Good morning.
Hi Jason.
Just wanted to follow-up on the aviation aftermarket.
You talked about expectation of improvement next year.
Wondering if you have any sense of what kind of impact you had this year from the earlier and normal retirements of younger planes the cannibalization for parts and whether you expect that to continue or whether youve really havent seen much of that? Thats been part of our run rate and analysis for the business already to take a look at where new serviceable parts going to come from.
I think the biggest impact that weve had this year really has been on the wide-body.
Its the CF6 is down.
Its down by overhauls and freights and its really a maintenance pressure on us while this CFM products and the GE90 products are both up so on the more prevalent install base narrow body growth that weve had you starting to see those engines come in for overhaul.
Certainly the GE90 and the 777 youre seeing those engines coming for overhaul and were just seeing a push out.
I think a lot of its freight.
I think some of it are in Europe and some of the older applications that CF6 is on and were really having to deal with that more than cannibalization on the narrow body product.
Okay.
Thanks.
And briefly on capital weve heard a lot this earning season about CapEx kind of being pushed out.
You certainly alluded to the fiscal cliff and whatnot.
Have you seen any impact on CLL loan demand or is there still efficiently few competitors that youre still able to originate as much as you want there? We said the commercial volume is down about 5%.
I think the bigger part of that is its uncertainty.
Its people not willing to spend because they have a more certain environment around whether its taxes or healthcare or social cost or things like that and just the general backdrop in terms of confidence so I think we have seen some of that.
We are seeing nice volume on the equipment side in the CLL business but on the CapEx side Id say thats been soft.
Soft yeah.
Great.
Thank you.
Next.
And our final question comes from Brian Langenberg with Langenberg Investments.
Hi guys.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning.
About the 300 million of restructuring you did can you just layer that around the segments like how much impact there was in each of the industrial segments? Sure.
If you look at it by business I will give you after tax numbers.
Energy was 50.
Healthcare was 27.
GE Capital is 25.
HNBS was 17.
Aviation was 16.
And about 100 was associated with the planned exit.
Okay great all right.
I will follow up for later but thank you very much.
Great.
Just before we wrap up I want to give some thoughts about the company going forward.
With all the volatility in the environment I think our Aviation business were winning in the marketplace with a massive backlog.
Oil and Gas is a fast-growth market with a lot of opportunity for expansion.
I think our Power and Water business is really well-positioned for a gas cycle.
Healthcare remains a diagnostic leader with a great growth market foundation.
Our Transportation business is well-positioned for growth based on new technology and global expansion.
Energy Management has room to grow.
And our Consumer businesses will benefit from an improving housing cycle.
GE Capital is smaller stronger and more competitive.
And were operating the company well with large backlogs I think successful acquisitions expanding margins and substantial cash.
So from an investor standpoint while the environment is volatile I think our path for growth and execution is very well understood by the team.
And we think this quarter demonstrates that and we think we feel good about how were positioned for the fourth quarter and 2013.
So Trevor thanks and have a good day.
Great.
Thanks Jeff a couple of items just to close out the day.
A replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon.
Well be serving our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today.
I do have some announcements of some upcoming investor events.
First on Wednesday December 12 Steve Bolze our President and CEO of GE Power and Water will host a plant tour at our manufacturing facility in Greenville South Carolina.
More details will be sent in the coming weeks about that.
Second our annual outlook meeting investor meeting with our Chairman CEO will be held in New York City likely to be at 30 Rock again will be held on Monday December 17.
Well send out more information regarding that event.
And finally our fourth quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be held on Friday January 18.
Thank you everyone.
As always well be available today to take your questions.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the General Electric Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen only mode.
My name is Diana and I will be your conference coordinator today.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Diana.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays fourth quarter and total year 2012 earnings webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast.
The slides are available on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
So to get started well turn over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great.
Tevor thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Look the GE team had a very strong quarter.
We saw real strength in the emerging markets and the developed region stabilized orders grew by 7% excluding foreign exchange and Wind and organic growth was 4% in the quarter and 8% for the year.
Earnings were strong with operating EPS up 13%.
Industrial earnings were up 12% with all segments growing for the second straight quarter.
Capital had another good quarter and for the year Industrial earnings were up 10% and Capital up 12%.
We delivered on our margin commitments which grew by 120 basis points in the quarter and 30 basis points for the year.
Industrial CFOA was also very strong in the quarter and for the year CFOA grew by 48% to $17.8 billion.
We return substantial cash to investors in 2012 through dividends and buyback and in the fourth quarter we announced the 12% increase in our dividend and expansion of our buyback program.
Finally December we announced the strategic acquisition of our Aviation business called Avio.
So this was a very successful quarter for GE strengthened as the quarter continue and builds momentum for the future.
Orders grew by 2% in the quarter.
This is up 7% excluding again the impact of foreign exchange and Wind.
We had a solid order growth in five of six businesses order pricing grew by 0.5% in the quarter equipment book-to-bill ratio was 1.2 and we entered the year with a record high backlog of $210 billion.
Many of our businesses had great quarters for instance Healthcare homeowners grew by 7% MR was up 12% CT up 23% and ultrasound up 11% and importantly growth market order expanded by 12%.
Our growth initiatives continue to deliver.
Our growth regions expanded by 9% in the quarter and 11% for the year.
Six of nine regions grew by double digits including Russia Australia Latin America China Africa and Asian.
For the year China grew by 19%.
Services had another good quarter in revenue backlog and margins.
Power Gen services had a very strong quarter.
Service backlog grew to a record of $157 billion.
We continue to launch new product and service offerings.
Were wining with our Aviation product lineup which is giving us high share of Commercial Engine.
Oil and Gas had record orders and backlog.
Our subsea orders almost double versus last year and Distributed Power grew by 19% for the year.
In November we announced nine new service offerings for the Industrial Internet with 20 in the pipeline.
So we continue to deliver in volatile markets.
GE had a great margin performance in the quarter margins grew by 120 basis points in the quarter and 30 basis points for the year every business grew margins in the quarter and our performance really was driven by value gap expansion of $330 million Service margins which grew by 190 basis points and simplification.
For the year SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was down 100 basis points.
We achieve these results in spite of the fact that foreign exchange created a headwind for the year.
We entered 2013 with substantial momentum.
We expect to have 70 basis points of improvement in 2013.
This is based on very positive value gap structural cost and service margins which are really in the run rate and mix in 2013 should not be a drag so really a good job by the GE team.
GE had a very strong performance on cash as well for the year.
We had $17.8 billion up 48%.
Industrial CFOA in the quarter was $6.2 billion up 12%.
We had good performance on working capital even while we continue to invest in growth.
We end the year with a cash balance of $15.5 billion dollars and consolidated cash of $77 billion.
Our strong Industrial CFOA performance plus capital dividend is supporting our plan for balance capital allocation.
So we returned $12.4 billion to investors through dividend and buyback and we expect this to continue in the future.
We announced the acquisition of Avio in December $4.3 billion.
As you know we have significant backlog of engines and shop visits.
Weve invested in capability materials and capacity to improve our new engine margins.
Recently youve seen several partnership announcements from GE Aviation in our supply chain.
And Avio we are acquiring an existing position of engine development.
They bring complementary technologies to GE.
We think there is an opportunity to expand this technology beyond Aviation and their substantial synergies about $200 million or more and relatively low execution risk.
So 8.3 times EBITDA we believe this will generate a good return for our investors and we expect to close in the second half of 13 after regulatory approvals.
So now Im going to turn back over to Keith to talk about company operations.
Thank you Jeff.
Im going to start with fourth quarter summary.
So the income statement we had operations revenues of $39.3 billion.
Thats reported up 4% ex-FX revenues were up 5%.
Industrial sales of $27.3 billion are up 2% up 3% ex-FX again.
Capital revenues of $11.8 billion were up 2% and operating earnings of $4.7 billion were up 13%.
Operating earnings per share of $0.44 were up 13%.
If you look (inaudible) continuing EPS this year includes the impact of a non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations which I am going to cover on the next page.
As Jeff said year-to-date cash of $17.8 billion was up 48% including the dividends from GE capital with great year on cash.
For taxes the GE rate 21% for the quarter thats up about 6 points from last year mostly due to higher pre-tax income.
In the fourth quarter GE rate is consistent with our rate through the third quarter and the low 23 we forecast all through the year.
So right now we forecast a similar GE tax rate for 2013.
The 6% GE Capital rates consistent with the mid single-digit rate we forecasted in the third quarter.
As we mentioned in December our plan for next year for GE Capital includes less tax benefits.
So right now I forecast a rate of approximately 10% for 2013 for GECC.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Total industrial segment profits up 12% its great to have 07 at the industrial segments delivering positive earnings growth and these results also contributed to industrial segment profit of $15.5 billion up 10% for the total year.
GE Capital also had a strong quarter.
Earnings were up 9%.
If you include the impact of the preferred dividends GE Capital represented 36% of total company earnings in the fourth quarter.
Overall a strong segment growth quarter and I am going to cover each of the segments in more detail in a minute.
Before I get to the businesses though I will start with the other items in the quarter  fourth quarter.
First on the one-time benefits we had $0.01 of after-tax gains from two non-core dispositions that occurred in the fourth quarter in the segments.
We sold the Thomas Medical business in Healthcare.
That business sells disposable medical devices for cardiology and we realized a $24 million after-tax gain; and in aviation we sold Smiths business in California in Duarte which makes thrust reverser actuation equipment and we realized a $67 million after-tax gain so in total $0.01 on the benefits.
We also had $0.02 of after-tax restructuring and other charges in the quarter.
These charges related principally to continued cost structure improvements at GE Capital at Healthcare Power &amp; Water and Energy Management as well as some business development costs.
On the bottom of the page we had $305 million of charges in discontinued operations.
We booked $286 million of additional reserves on a gray zone this quarter.
While we watched the claims decline 28% in the third quarter the claims in the fourth quarter were above our model expectations.
So we revised our assumptions this quarter.
Right now were reflecting a further slowing in the overall claims reduction rate than we had previously modeled and that brought our year end reserve to $700 million.
So we will continue to update you as events and facts change on the gray zone rate.
Right now Ill switch to the business results.
First I will start with Power &amp; Water.
As you know this is the first quarter were reporting the three separate businesses.
So Power &amp; Water the business continued to be impacted by wind however the overall execution delivered positive operating results.
Orders of 7.2 billion were down 16% down 6% ex-wind.
The equipment orders of $3.5 billion were down 26% driven by thermal and renewables.
The thermal orders of $974 million were down 49% as we had orders for 26 gas turbines versus 50 last year and we also had orders for two steam turbines versus 20 last year.
In addition there were $500 million of thermal order slips that went out of the fourth quarter into 2013.
For the total year we had orders for 108 gas turbines versus 134 in 2011 and the total year thermal orders in dollars were down about 7%.
Total thermal order pricing was up 1% in the fourth quarter and up 0.5% for the total year.
Our renewables; fourth quarter renewable orders of $987 million were down 50%.
We had orders for 412 wind turbines versus 1023 last year.
Renewable order pricing was positive 0.4% and service orders of $3.6 billion were down 3%.
Power Gen services was up 7% and you will see thats important in terms of profit but that was offset by nuclear which was down 15% in line with lower activity in Japan.
For revenues of $7.7 billion they were up 2% that's driven by services.
Equipment revenues of $3.9 billion were down 2% driven by thermal down 14% partially offset by wind of 10%.
We shipped 32 gas turbines versus 33 last year and we shipped 722 wind turbines versus 688 last year.
Service revenues of $3.7 billion were up 5% driven by PowerGen services which was up 8%.
In PowerGen services our profit was up double-digit in the quarter.
Total segment profit of $1.7 billion was up 5% as the benefits of the higher services and lower product costs more than offset lower prices.
And in the quarter margins expanded by 80 basis points.
On the right side oil and gas had another strong quarter closed out a great year.
Orders of $5.6 billion were up 18%.
Equipment orders of $3.1 billion were up 31% driven by the strong subsea systems and drilling and surface orders.
Year-to-date equipment orders were up 21%.
Service orders of $2.4 billion were up 4% on again strong subsea systems orders.
Total orders pricing was up 1.3%.
We finished the year with a backlog of over $14.8 billion up $2.6 billion from last year and our seventh consecutive quarter of positive orders pricing.
Revenue of $4.5 billion was up 11% driven by equipment.
Equipment revenues of $2.4 billion were up 27% driven by subsea systems up 34%.
Measurement and controls were up 63%.
Turbomachinery was up 16%.
And service revenue of $2.1 billion was down 2%.
Segment profit of $649 million was up 14%.
It was driven by the strong volume and positive pricing and our acquisitions continue to perform.
For the year theyre up significantly and above pro forma.
So overall another strong growth quarter for oil and gas.
Next is aviation.
The aviation team had another solid quarter in fourth quarter.
Orders of $7.4 billion were up 8%.
The commercial engine orders of $3.6 billion were up 9% driven by CFM LEAP and GEnx.
Military engine orders of $632 million were up 57% driven by U.S.
orders for F1-14 and T700 as well as foreign military orders for F1-10 engines.
We ended the quarter with a backlog of $22.9 billion up 6% versus the third quarter.
Service orders in the quarter of $2.7 billion were up 1%.
Commercial services were flat.
The fourth quarter spares order rate was $22.3 million which was flat with last year.
As you know we did see spares order stabilize in the fourth quarter and as you know spares were down double digit all year long.
So flat was an improvement and the total year rate was $22 million down 11% from 2011.
Total orders pricing was up 2.3% for the business.
Revenue in the quarter $5.5 billion was up 11%.
That's driven by equipment which was up 19% Services were up 3%.
We shipped 589 commercial engines in the fourth quarter which was up 71 engines from last year and we shipped 48 GEnx units in the fourth quarter.
Commercial service revenues of $1.8 billion were flat in the quarter and segment profit of $1 039 million was up 22%.
Its up 8% ex the deal that I covered on the other items page.
So ex the deal segment profit growth was driven by positive price lower base costs partially offset by negative engine mix.
On the right side healthcare we had a good orders quarter.
Fourth quarter for healthcare orders of $5.4 billion were up 4%.
Equipment orders of $3.4 billion were up 7%.
Developed markets were flat but there was a big shift here.
The U.S.
was up 8%.
Europe was down 8%.
Emerging markets were up 24% continued strength in the business.
The Middle East was up over 100%.
Russia was up 29% China up 22% Latin America up 21% partially offset by India down 12%.
By modality CT was up 23% MR was up 12% ultrasound was up 11% molecular imaging was down 8% Life Sciences was up 5% and MDx was down 3%.
Service orders in the quarter of $2.1 billion were down 1% and total orders price was down 1.8% for the business.
Revenue of $5.2 billion was flat driven by the growth markets up 13% offset by the developed markets down 3%.
And segment profit of $1 021 million was up 7% as the benefits of cost productivity and other income more than offset the negative price and foreign exchange.
Organic segment profit growth for the business if you look in the fourth quarter it was up 1% and for the year it was up 3%.
Next is transportation.
Transportation team delivered another solid quarter despite a slowing topline.
Orders of $1.3 billion were up 7%.
Equipment orders of $600 million were up 20% driven by the strong international locomotive orders.
We had orders for 100 locomotives versus 74 last year.
We had strong mining orders and mining is down a little bit actually $151 million was down 7% and service orders of $720 million were down 3% as fewer signaling orders offset strong locomotive service orders which were up 14%.
Revenues were down 7% on as expected lower locomotive shipments.
We had a 117 locomotives this year versus 258 last year just the way we planned the year and this was partially offset by the stronger service which was up 26% and mining revenues which were up 57% Profit was up 12% on higher service and positive value gap.
This is the first quarter were presenting energy management separately.
The businesses here are Converteam which is now power conversion digital energy industrial solutions and intelligent platforms.
Orders of $2.2 billion were up 12% driven by the strong growth in power conversion oil and gas marine orders.
Revenues of $1.9 billion were down 1% as lower intelligent platform sales offset the growth in power conversion which was up 6%.
Segment profit of $64 million was up 36% with 90 basis points of margin expansion driven by a positive value gap more than offsetting lower volume.
And on the bottom Home &amp; Business Solutions had a very positive quarter.
With intelligent platforms now reported in energy management this segment is just appliances and lighting going forward.
Revenues of $2.1 billion were up 2% driven by appliances.
We did see some strength in the contract channel from new housing starts and segment profit of $115 million was more than double last years fourth quarter driven by higher pricing and lower product costs.
And to wrap up with GE Capital Mike Neal and the capital team delivered another solid quarter.
Revenues of $11.8 billion were up 2%.
Higher core income strong retail revenues real estate sales more than offset the impact of lower assets.
We ended the year with $419 billion of ending net investment thats down $26 billion from 2011 driven by the shrinkage of non-core platforms and over $20 billion lower than our $440 billion goal that we set back in 2009.
GE Capital earned $1.8 billion in net income which was up 9% thats driven by great results in real estate growth in consumer and that more than offset the $200 million lower income from lower assets.
On the right side asset quality metrics showed continued improvement across the board driven largely by improved portfolio performance.
Our net interest margin was 4.9% up 49 basis points and we had strong volume of 54 billion in the quarter up 11% from last year.
Commercial volume was up 18% and consumer volume was up 8% and new business volume averaged 3% returns.
One other point thats not on the page in the supplemental deck that we posted this morning youre going to see reserves at GE Capital decline by $400 million versus the prior quarter.
This decline is driven by a modification to our write-off policy in line with regulatory guidance where we now write off loans against specific reserves that we are accounting for more than 12 months.
So the change had primarily impacted real state and CLL and it has no impact on our income statement and the net impact on the balance sheet is zero but we had higher write-offs and lower reserves at the end of the quarter because of that about $400 million.
So if I go to highlights by business here first I will start with CLL.
Net income of $544 million was down 30% driven by lower assets and prior year dispositions and also the non-repeat of last years IRS settlement.
In the Americas net income of $455 million was down 20% thats driven by the non-repeat of the tax item in the fourth quarter as well as lower assets.
We did see strong volume growth in the Americas.
In the fourth quarter volume was up 31% at 2.4% returns and in Europe European CLL earned 83 million and was flat with last year.
Our consumer business had another positive earnings quarter.
We ended the year with assets of $139 billion flat with last year.
Net income of $755 million was up 22% thats driven by growth across-the-board in U.S.
retail in Europe and in Asia.
U.S.
retail finance earned $477 million which was up 3% thats driven by higher assets and better margins partially offset by higher credit costs as we continued our reserve segmentation that we talked about in the fourth quarter.
U.S.
retail finance volume was up 9% over last year and core Europe earned $154 million in the quarter.
For real estate commercial real estate had another quarter with significant improvements over last year.
Assets of $46 billion were down $15 billion thats down 24% from last year its down $9 billion or 16% from the end of Q3.
So we do a good job of reducing our exposure to real estate.
The business earned$309 million in net income which was $460 million better than last year thats driven by lower losses and impairments higher tax benefits and higher gains.
During the quarter we sold 282 properties for $2.6 billion realizing $136 million in after-tax gains and we also closed on the sale of the business properties book to EverBank resulting in $82 million of gains and $5.4 billion less real estate.
Our unrealized loss on the equity portfolio was down to $1.1 billion at the end of the year and the outlook is that real estate is going to continue to deliver improved performance in 2013.
Next is GECAS they had a solid fourth quarter.
Net income of $343 million was up 9% thats driven by higher gains and lower losses on impairments.
Asset quality remains strong.
We ended the year with two aircraft on the ground.
And finally energy financial services also had a solid quarter with earnings of $107 million down 3%.
So overall a great year $6.4 billion of dividends paid back to the parent.
With that let me turn it back to Jeff.
Great.
Keith thanks.
Just to wrap up on 2012 investor commitments one last time on 2012 we really hit all the major goals that we set out with you a year ago.
We targeted strong Industrial growth and we hit 12% in the fourth quarter and 10% for the year.
We said we would grow margins and we hit 120 basis points in the fourth quarter 30 basis points for 2012 and we are on track for 70 basis points in 13.
We said we want to get cash out of GE Capital and we received $6.4 billion dividend to the parent.
We said we would make GE Capital smaller and our ENI ended the year at $419 billion down 6% even while we grew income by 12%.
And we said capital allocation would be disciplined and balanced and we returned more than $12 billion in dividends and buyback and announced the $4.3 billion Avio acquisition.
So 2012 was a year where we really hit all of our financial commitments to investors.
Looking forward in 2013 there is no change to our 2013 operating framework that we talked about in December.
If anything we start the year with a higher backlog and more cash.
Our commitments are similar to 12.
We plan to achieve double-digit Industrial earnings growth.
We plan to receive a substantial dividend from GE Capital.
We plan to grow margins while driving solid organic growth and our fourth quarter orders support this growth.
And we plan to return substantial cash to investors through dividend and buyback.
So our fourth quarter performance gives us confidence for 2013.
I think GE team has done a great job of execution.
And Trevor now back to you for some questions.
Great.
Thanks Jeff and Keith.
Diana lets open the phone lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Scott Davis Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Good morning.
It looks like most of the full year margin expansion came from value gap.
Can you talk more specifically about 4Q to 120 basis points is a pretty big number if there is a way to now think of that in terms of value gap versus maybe mix or cost? Sure.
Ill give you both actually because I think its helpful to look at the pieces.
You said that in the fourth quarter value gap was big it was 80 basis points.
So the growth came from value gap.
We had very strong pricing.
We saw material deflation and you can see that the changes in order pricing are flowing through into revenue.
We had Equipment service mix was a drag as you know it's been a drag all year along.
It was 50 basis points the same as we had for the total year as we had higher revenues on Equipment growth than on Services.
And also you know the Wind story higher Wind revenues that the lower margins has been a drag all year along.
We offset that.
There were two things.
One we did have the dispositions that was about 60 basis points in the quarter and we had strong productivity which was 30 basis points in the quarter as we offset the impact of the negative mix so overall 120 basis points.
And for year its really a similar story our value gap was 20 basis points so that 30 basis points growth.
We had a real drag on mix and other that was in total 60 basis points but we offset there were strong productivity a lot of that is Simplification our SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue went down a 4-point.
We have done a good job with cost and we've got great programs in place that will help us as we go forward in the 13 as you know.
And the gains in total for the total year were about 7 basis points on the impact for the margin.
So pretty good performance strength really value gap and productivity driving margin improvement both in the quarter and for the total year.
Okay.
Helpful.
Keith thanks.
Yeah.
And kind of stepping back to it a little bit of bigger picture question the Avio deal seems pretty interesting and for many reasons.
But when you think about taking a step backwards and is this part of a bigger trend and an opportunity to start to buy in some of the supply partners that you have that that I mean there is multiple positives that can come out of that I guess in risk reduction and controlling intellectual property and things like that.
I mean is there other things out there that you can do that are similar to this type of transaction? Scott we did a couple other joint ventures that you probably saw last year that enhanced our position and controls and fuel nozzles and additive manufacturing and things like that.
We think Avio made a ton of sense just given the amount of GE content and things like that.
I would say we don't have a bunch more on the drawing board.
But what I would say is weve got an incredible backlog in Skyline of aircraft engines coming at us for the next 5 to 10 years and we believe that actually being able to drive real productivity in the supply chain and innovation in the supply chain is -- will likely be one of the real margin enhancers as we look at the aviation business in the next three four five 10 years.
So it is part of a bigger productivity play.
I don't think there is necessarily things like Avio on the drawing board per se but we continue to look at productive manufacturing of a well identified backlog as being a major source of margin benefit for our investors going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa JP Morgan.
The China growth of close to 20% remains a pretty strong.
Could you maybe talk about what was above and below that average and how you see that playing out in 2013? And you guys have skated through the weakness there pretty nicely.
Steve I would stay we definitely saw China strengthen again at the end of the year.
The big drivers of China continue to be healthcare and aviation and we believe that the China momentum will likely continue into 2013.
So I dont know Keith you want to? Some Vs Ill give you for the quarter power and water had a big quarter.
They were up over 30%.
Healthcare had a big quarter up 15%.
For the year they were up over 20%.
Aviation continues to be very important to us for the year up 18%.
There were some orders that we had pushed out of the third quarter still pushed out of the fourth quarter so we expect some more orders in aviation in China in the first quarter.
So those three are really the strength and we continue to see investments by the government in those industries and were benefiting from the move to gas in China a bit the great emphasis on healthcare and certainly on transportation with the aviation position we have.
There is a knock on Steve as well as China grows.
You see more activity in Africa Brazil and places like that as well.
So its -- it has a knock-on effect thats also positive.
How big is your China business going to be at year end now? The revenue for the year was just a little under $6 billion in 2012.
And then one last question just on margins I guess the value gap obviously is ramping here.
That doesnt seem like thats lumpy so you had your biggest quarter obviously in the fourth quarter which means you should probably start the year with a pretty decent value gap in the first half and then maybe if you would talk about how those other swing factors like mix the other things you talked about in the bridge progress as you move through the first half of 2013 if there is anything lumpy that you need to call out that may impact the 70 basis points first half to second half type of thing? Steve again as I look at margins I think value gap is pretty well dialed in structural costs what Keith talked about SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue that should continue to get better.
Those two arent necessarily lumpy.
Service margins arent really lumpy.
We continue to get good progress there.
My view is Wind will be lumpy right as you think about how it plays through the balance of 2013.
And the one that we don't really control so much is how mix goes through.
So Id say a lot of the levers should continue with pretty good progress and the one that we will manage as year goes on is just the impact of -- there will be a $0.03 headwind in wind and we dont see that necessarily changing and thats something to play through.
We feel confident in the 70 basis points for the year.
Were not really giving quarterly margin guidance but as Jeff said for the year based on those factors we feel pretty confident we have internal plan thats above the 70.
We dont have any gains that are in the plan to get to that 70 and weve got some good momentum as we come out of the fourth quarter on the margin improvement.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague Vertical Research Partners.
Hi just looking for a little more color around orders.
Just first at a high level you are calling the quarter flat at 11.8 but I see 12.5 last year in the quarter.
Whats going on there? I think its the energy recast and eliminations.
Yeah.
Im talking about service in particular actually.
Yeah.
Thats what we have.
We have a recast from Summit services went into equipment I believe.
Okay.
(Multiple Speakers) about the corporate.
We gave that split  its a little bit of decoder ring.
I dont have the details with me Jeff.
Okay.
And then just on the power-related stuff.
So power and water in aggregate price was down 20 bps but I think you said Keith just trying to keep up with your thermal was up 1.
Is that thermal number just equipment or is that service and can you provide any color on service pricing in the business? Yes.
The number I gave was the total business.
Thermal and PGS were up one in the quarter.
If you look at -- I dont have a separate breakout for services for the fourth quarter.
I have thermal in total.
Okay.
But if you look weve -- all year long in thermal it was positive in the first and second quarter it was a little negative in the third quarter it was positive in the total year it was up half a point for thermal equipment and service.
And then just finally flipping over to Aero so the ADOR stabilized do you have visibility you think at the after markets kind of found the bottom and inflecting or is it early to kind of determine that? Yes.
I think the way the team has talked to us about it and in the market you continue to see pretty good revenue passenger-miles lumpy in 2012 but recovered a little bit at the end of the year and for us to have flat ADORs its given that there was an awful lot of working capital management in the supply chain and some mix for us with the old CF-6s on freight was a positive sign.
Right now the team is forecasting a little bit of improvement off of that fourth quarter rate in the first quarter and were going to have to see as we go through the quarter it is too early in the quarter right now to know and a couple weeks in but they are forecasting it will be improving over the [fourth] (ph) quarter levels.
And any concern about your GEnx productivity ramp with maybe things backing up with Boeing if youve get any thought on how things might play there as it relates to you? Well were going to have to see.
Right now we havent had any schedule changes from them.
Actually as you know if there are few less engine shipments thats not a bad thing in terms of margins -- based on the margins on the initial GEnx shipments.
We had a great year on GEnx Jeff.
We came down the learning curve.
Obviously some of the pricing that youre seeing in aviation is coming through on GEnx.
There was an improvement on margins per units in those shipments.
So we dont anticipate it to be a big deal but again weve got to see Boeing kind of work their way through the problem.
Just a little number on our engines.
On the 1B weve had 35 000 flight hours with 99.97% dispatch reliability.
And on the 2B on the 747 we have 310 000 flight hours with 99.94% dispatch reliability.
I mean the engine is performing very well in the fleet and customers love it.
So we have got to work through Boeing.
And were trying to help them with whatever theyre working through and we will but so far for us were very pleased and our customers are very pleased with the GEnx.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Jeff.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Obin Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I guess good morning.
Hi Andrew.
A question a broader question given the resolution partial resolution of the fiscal cliff are you seeing any improvement in sentiment from your customers in the U.S.? Yes.
I mean I think there is certain tangible things like the production tax credit Andrew.
So that basically opens up a two-year window.
So I would say on balance thats more positive and we hear more positive comments coming out of the renewable energy sector.
Other than that Andrew I wouldnt say that were necessarily picking up whether or not thats been deliberating or not.
The shortest cycle business in GE is our appliance business.
We get appliance market data every week and the industry itself was about flat in December and the industry itself is about flat through the first couple of weeks of January.
So is that helpful? And Just a question on GE Capital do you think these ROIs are sustainable? Are you seeing more competition were entering the space and any more color by segment on ROIs and new business? Thank you.
It does vary.
I think on some things like asset back lending weve seen some more competition.
But in other places weve had less competitors.
Overall for CLL in order to do $14.5 billion in the Americas that are 2.4 in the quarter thats pretty good volume and at a pretty good rate.
So the team has been very disciplined on pricing and margin hurdles and so far we have been able to get the volume we wanted at the return hurdles that weve set.
And we expect to see that continuing in 2013.
I think we saw a little bit of a bubble with the fourth quarter from some of the fiscal cliff activity as people did a lot of refinancing and tried to get gains on sales of their properties out in the quarter.
But other than that we've been pretty disciplined on pricing and we expect it to continue to be reasonably good.
All I would add is exactly what Keith said some of this is our own discipline about where were going to write business and we've been exceptionally disciplined.
And I think the fact that volume was pretty good in the quarter kind of lets just get the sense that were in the market and our disciplines are appropriate.
And on asset quality weve seen changes to consumer weve seen changes to CLL.
Any more policy changes on the line? Well those were two that were working through.
I think were significantly through the consumer as far as the segmentation there may be a little more in the first quarter.
And on the write-off this was just -- there is regulatory guidance and we are complying with it.
I am not aware of any other besides those two right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Deane Dray Citi Research.
Sticking with GE Capital a question on provisions it looked like you absorbed at least a penny more than what we were looking for.
But now that I look at the consumer delinquencies they are at the 18 year low.
So I raise the question I know this is completely formulaic and its out of your discretion.
But when might we start seeing some releases of reserves? Well I dont anticipate that.
I can tell you right now what were basically I think a simple rule of thumb to look at the consumers youre probably going to be looking at 12 month of reserves or provisions for losses in that book.
While we have seen delinquencies come down and you're right we have a tremendous asset quality there.
Its the best we have seen as you said.
We have increased the segmentation of the portfolio to be more granular on different loss types and thats added through provisions.
You can see in the fourth quarter provisions dropped some of thats volume and about $50 million to $60 million after-tax of that is additional segmentation of the reserve to get to the 12 month kind of proxy here for loss levels.
And then can you comment on the MetLife bank integration any changes to the business model there? And a related question is as you start increasing this alternative financing where -- alternative funding youre expected to issue less commercial paper and maybe that the aggregate amount of commercial paper coming down might actually give you better spreads better financing and maybe if you can comment on that as well.
While were thrilled with the MetLife close obviously weve put it in the consumer bank.
The objective here is to grow our deposits online and they give us a franchise and a capability to be able to do that.
Our expectation is that were not only going to do that in the consumer back but were going to migrate that over to the commercial bank.
And were going to do more online deposits.
As you said our objective is to get the CP down in the 30 this year and continue to reduce CP and we have been very successful with doing that.
And we will continue -- I think you look at the trade-off of cost of deposits versus CP plus the bank lines whenever backup cash we carry I think this can be a good trade-off over time for us as we continue to diversify our funding.
But is it too early to quantify what that spreads might be? Yeah I think youre not going to see that from a -- I mean CP is at 20 basis points steam so youre not going to see a big number on that in 2013 for GE Capital.
I think you will get a benefit from having less negative carry on the cash.
Now if you look at last year we took the cash of 70 plus billion dollars well have a carry of around somewhere between 50 and 60 this year that will probably be the biggest increase in sort of the financing margins.
Last year we had net maturities of $48 billion reduction in GE Capital.
So it was a fantastic year for Capital on a balance sheet basis to kind of lower the amount of debt and improve their future debt maturity profile.
As you know were going to have $30 million to $35 million of long-term debt issuance a year now from a significantly higher level.
So I think the Capital team has done a job.
The biggest benefit youll see will probably be on little less negative carry on the cash.
Great.
Thank you.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Winoker Sanford Bernstein.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Just first a follow-up question to an earlier one.
We -- the question was around the order report today versus a year ago in the Q4 11 press release.
Can you talk about moving from Services to Equipment? If you look at the total so Im just trying to understand that the total I guess a year ago was $28.6 billion in the press release and this year its $28.5 and you talked about just 2% increase? So when you look at the overall level how much is it or how should I understand that whats the gap? To recast the orders are basically flat.
There are up $56 million ex-Wind and FX 5% sorry up -- they are up 5% ex-Wind and FX.
So the recast we put a little bit more incorporate out of the energy infrastructure recast but I think its insignificant.
Okay.
All right.
Fine.
And then secondly on the -- on Avio just so I understand this they produce the gear system obviously for the GTF on A320NEO and CSeries.
I think they are pretty deeply involved in the development program and you are also calling out $200 million of synergies.
Just how you are thinking about how does that handle how do you handle that going forward? Well look there are ton of different developmental programs inside the industry that people work on together.
We do engines for Sikorsky.
We buy it from Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand.
So there is always Id say a certain amount of developmental work that goes on inside the industry.
I think what was most appealing about Avio for us was really the amount content they had of GE engines.
I think giving more control over our own supply chain building capability more reliability leveraging sourcing and manufacturing skills things like that thats really where we see Avio paying off for investors.
Okay.
And then maybe just last I guess Aviation is now up to about half of the backlog and as Boeing and Airbus orders start to decelerate at this point.
Is the thought that the backlog that Oil and Gas and if you see that backlog maintaining are now starting to come down they start running it off a little bit and getting it into the -- into revenues? Well youre going to you are obviously right you are going to see and weve talked about it the last six months that with the Aviation backlogs of three to four to five years of Equipment you are going to see lumpiness in those orders.
We feel great about the position and obviously as the Airbus and Boeing airframers increased their production run rates we are going to continue to see volume growth as you see in 11 to 12 and 12 to 13 we expect more commercial volume growth.
But I would expect the orders to be lumpy.
The one offset to that as youre starting to see the Leap Max orders come in and so that will be an offset as you know there has been pretty good success in the marketplace from the 737 Max.
But I think its a great question I dont think I dont think either Keith or I ever thought we have $210 billion of backlog in GE.
But I would say in the kind of volatile environment we leave in today having that kind of visibility is actually quite a strong aspect and maybe Aviation feels off little bit.
But Oil and Gas our orders in Oil and Gas are $0.5 billion or $1 billion in the crack.
So its easy to see how that order rate might continue with the rate its on today and add to the backlog.
Okay.
And then Jeff you mentioned that you still expect a $0.03 impact on Wind the tax credit extension obviously you got moved into through 2013 so thats not changing thinking about the end of the year? Really not yet it just a there is a it really opens up a two-year window.
So I think in aggregate over the next two years its going to increase the number of Wind shipments we are going to have but exactly which quarters and stuff like that is hard to predict.
As you know that the PTC extension is a little different this time Steve.
Its a -- the units will have to be in production by the end of the year and thats yet to be defined.
Yeah.
But its not the same as last year where they had to be actually operating.
Yeah.
So I think its all good for 13 and 14.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question comes from the line of Shannon O'Callaghan Nomura Good morning guys.
Hey Shannon.
How are you? Hi Shannon.
Good.
So just in terms of the back to the orders FX and ex-Wind being up 7% I mean at the December meeting I think you had said up a smidge and this sounds better than the smidge.
What finished stronger I guess in December than you thought at the meeting? Look there is a little bit of volatility going out there and we always try to give you guys a range of outcomes.
One of our biggest industrial businesses went from having orders down 24% in October to having orders up 27% in December and the total being up 7% for the quarter.
So that's a big swing.
Thats a big swing.
I would say Shannon on balance we closed the quarter very strong.
I would say all the businesses had good order books as we closed the quarter probably above even what our expectations were.
I think thats good news.
What that means or is it lumpy or things like I think its too soon to call victory but clearly the momentum built during the quarter.
Then healthcare was probably the biggest swing? Yeah yeah.
And power and water margins so youre seeing ex-wind they were up 300 bps I mean the wind mix should be actually favorable from here.
But that seems like an awfully high year over year run rate.
So are there things that prevent us from continuing to track that kind of a rate? Well the services business had a great quarter so we really -- a lot of what we talked about in terms of services Id say fourth quarter was fantastic and theres -- the mix for the business ought to be great for -- better for 2013.
So well just see how the shipments work and all that kind of stuff.
But You look at 2012 I mean wind revenue was up close to 50% and the margins are down a couple points and they were already below-average for the company.
So this had a huge 20 basis point impact on the total year on the total company.
And I think as you go into 13 youre going to have a couple billion dollars less of wind revenue.
So we do expect that to be a positive.
I dont know if you get to a full 20 basis points well have to see how the PTC impacts that but will be a net positive versus what we saw in 2012 Shannon.
And just your M&amp;A plan has been fairly modest but if you get NBC proceeds sort of sooner than the base plan are there enough things out there that you see opportunities to redeploy very quickly into industrial deals or would you look for something else to do with the cash? Shannon I just dont even want to speculate on how that plays out.
I think we talked about balance and discipline capital allocation I think that's really the way I feel.
We like having a good deal.
We like the fact that we returned more than $12 billion cash to shareholders last year.
We like having kind of a focused approach to acquisitions and if our world changes well come back and talk more about it but right now you shouldnt assume any change.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell Credit Suisse.
My first question is really just on the value gap you mentioned its not really lumpy but if I look at your mid-December presentation you had a double plus of value gap as the margin driver in 13 and today its a single plus.
I just wanted if that was because of something like healthcare pricing in the quarter being less than you thought in orders or what drove that? I think there is really no change in how I feel about value gap next year.
Its good solid 330 this year it will be better than that next year.
And I think if you look at order pricing overall you look at our total order price index for the company its been positive all year along 2012 and in total it was a positive 0.5 point 50 basis points in the fourth quarter for the total year of deposits of 60 basis points.
I dont think -- I think pricing is not going to change and our view continues to see strong Well we think its going to be above both.
And then secondly in mid-December you talked about 5% services revenue growth in 2013 if I just look at the orders in services that went down 2 year on year in Q2 down 4 year on year in Q3 flat in Q4.
So are you still comfortable with that 5% services revenue growth through 13 just given that the orders havent been that strong for nine months or so? Actually these are lumpy.
The orders here are probably lumpier than others particularly with the CSA.
So I would say we have a huge backlog.
And then our estimate of 5% organic revenue growth in services really assumes that aviation spares has a better 2013.
So I think the combination of the fact that you get $157 billion backlog.
Sometimes whats goes in the orders of 10 or 15 years of commitment right.
So those goal based on sharp business and stuff like that that we can model that makes us feel good about it.
And some pieces really were expecting aviation spares to bounce back and those two things I think really lead you to 5% service organic growth.
If you look we had 4% revenue this year with aviation flat just point is really one of the key differences what we expect in 2013 in aviation.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then just lastly on gas turbine shipments for 13 I mean Im thinking they should be down maybe around 10% or so year-on-year.
Does that sound about right? Basically right now if you look we had 108 orders for the year.
Were forecasting somewhere 100 gas turbines for 2013.
And well see how the market plays out.
So theyre going to be down versus 2012.
I think the factors to think about the thermal business itself on the equipment side is about 9% of out profit for the energy business.
So really the dynamic for us is going to be how do services perform.
We got a big growth forecast in for services.
How does distributed energy perform? Weve got a nice orders performance in the quarter and weve got a good outlook for 2013.
And how do they do on controlling the cost? Those are going to be really the dynamics but the energy team is going to be working the way through.
And the megawatts will be bigger.
Unit mix is higher on that.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Julian.
The next question comes from the line of Christopher Glynn Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Chris.
Hey Chris.
The backlog building nicely in orders better than expected as of December.
I guess sort of the lowering of the organic growth in December and that played out as you predicted it was maybe a bit of an abrupt deferral with backlog conversion.
Can you characterize how you see that unfolding from here? Does that tend to favor the first half and where does that focus your bias in the 2% to 6% organic range? Well look I dont want to change to necessarily to 2% to 6% Chris.
What I would say is that the way we finish the year the building on the backlog Id say the strength of orders makes us feel good about next year and makes us feel good about the momentum we have going into next year.
And then the only thing Id add to that vis--vis organic growth and how it splits.
Again we dont do some point estimates.
Its just wind is lumpy and wind is going to continue to be lumpy in the future.
But if you take that out the rest of the company Id say you feel pretty good about where were positioned going into next year.
You had pretty good data -- really you had five of six businesses with what I would call robust order growth in the quarter from an industrial standpoint.
Okay.
And then just one on GE Capital regarding the systematically important financial institution and the buffer needed for capital.
Could you give any updates on the limitations on capital payout and with respect of your shrinking the balance sheet is there any reason GE Capital will need to retain any earnings at some point in the future? Well thats a good question.
I think for us what we have to make sure is that were meeting what we need to have to be -- from a regulatory perspective and from a rating agency perspective and from a management perspective safe and secure.
We expect to be well capitalized in any scenario under Basel 1 or Basel 3.
Were going to meet the liquidity requirements that regulators have.
And our objective is to be able to release capital as we continue to shrink the book as you say continue to generate profitability.
And for us we think were in pretty good shape on that.
You saw our success in 2012.
Weve got number-one strong earnings.
Number two we had strong liquidity with over $60 billion of cash less than $35 billion of long term debt were going to issue this year and we already completed nine of that.
We have strong capital ratio as you saw we ended the year with tier 1 coming at 10.2 Basel I.
We reduced our overall debt by over $45 billion last year.
Weve got strong portfolio quality.
Delinquencies are down non-earnings are down and we continue to make strategic progress on running off the red assets and reinvesting in the green assets.
So I think when we look at whats going on from a regulatory perspective we have not been designated as the systemically important institution yet.
We are in discussions and the main issue that happens when you're designated is that youre going to be supervised by the Federal Reserve.
Were already supervised by the Federal Reserve.
So we'll see how that plays out but we believe that we have a pretty good framework against the regulatory guide posts and were continuing to operate in a way that runs the company from a safe and secure perspective while also being able to be mindful of returning cash back to the parent and get that back to the investors.
So I think were doing a pretty good of this.
I think Mike Neal and his team had a great year against those objectives and well have to see how that continues to play out.
Your next question comes from the line of John Inch Deutsche Bank.
Lots of moving parts between the segments and the results versus the outlook in orders and pricing.
Can you just -- is there any way to do a little bit of a quick recap in terms of pricing particularly in Thermal but maybe you could parse that between gas turbine or just some of the other segments Keith or Jeff that are noteworthy? Whats different about fourth-quarter pricing in backlog specifically on orders versus what you saw last quarter? Well if you look in the third quarter our parent order in total was down 1.9 and in the fourth quarter its down two-tenths.
I said thermal including services went from a negative 2.7 in the third quarter to a positive one in fourth quarter.
Wind was down 36 in the third quarter thats up four-tenths in the fourth quarter on fewer orders obviously.
So those are some of the bigger pieces.
Oil and gas third quarter 1.6 positive pricing fourth quarter 1.3 on high orders.
Aviation continued positive pricing 2.3% positive in both third quarter and four quarter and healthcare continues to have the negative pricing 1.7 in the third 1.8 in the fourth quarter.
So overall we went from a tenth of a point positive price in the third quarter to 0.5% 50 basis points positive in the fourth quarter.
And it's a big area of focus obviously as the whole team is working on improving margins and I think theyve got some pretty good traction here.
I think the supply demand characteristics are what they are by business but overall for the portfolio to have 0.5 point of positive price a good place for us to be is the fourth quarter.
I agree.
Is the thermal price that you are getting is that mix or are you actively trying to raise pricing? Or how -- whats going on there? I think thermal pricing is lumpy I would take it for the whole year a half a percent up with equipment and services thats kind of the way we look.
Were expecting it to be flat to slightly positive for the year Steve [Wolf] said it was going to be a little lumpy.
And I think that's about where we are obviously with the market where it is I mean the supply demand characteristics are tougher in thermal.
And on the other hand you look at oil and gas on the supply chain tightening they are better in aviation.
So I think it varies by business but overall we hit what Steve said a little better for the total year on thermal and 0.5 point up.
Jeff with the eventual monetization of NBC and Capital as equity investments and red line assets that are going to come off is your company between that and operating cash is going to throw off an awful lot of cash flow over the coming years.
Would you be able to reaffirm your commitment sort of not to be doing big deals or anything beyond one to three? Avio was a little bit bigger but it's still in the zone or are you thinking about perhaps in a year or so perhaps stepping that up or how should we think about that at this juncture? Again I was just -- I would make two comments.
Id just say -- I dont really want to make any other pronouncements other than kind of disciplined and balanced capital allocation.
I just really -- well go over the other bridge as we get there but lets start with that.
And the second thing Id reaffirm your first point I think is one that's good for all investors to remember is this company is going to have a tonne of cash over the next three years right.
Between -- whatever happens with NBC Universal between kind of as we look where we think GE Capital versus the guide post Keith talked about there is going to be a lot of cash.
So lets leave it at that -- let's leave it with those two comments for right now John.
Thats okay.
And Im (inaudible) confuse with Steve so no worries.
Thank you.
Okay.
The next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Nigel.
So speaking of the tonne of cash you just mentioned Jeff when do you expect to have signoff for the capital allocation plan for GE Capital.
Are you on the same schedule as the banks which I think they stress test resulted in March? Yeah.
Nigel were not one of the major banks that goes through that systemic process every year.
We do go through own process.
I would say the best outlook would be to think of it as a mirror of 2012.
And we will go through a lot of exact same steps with forecast and stress test and capital plans and all that.
But last year we had final decisions on that in the second quarter.
And I would anticipate it would be the same in 2013 right now.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then searching back to December it seems that December came in stronger than your maybe your initial thoughts back in the annual meeting.
Anything standout in terms of regions the U.S.
versus growth market versus Europe.
Any one retail standouts in terms of that bump up in December? We saw a little bit of strength in U.S.
Id say in healthcare and appliances.
And we saw a tonne of strength elsewhere Id say natural and we saw more that in oil and gas and aviation energy really across the board so.
Again I think its fits the broader it fits the broader Id say dialog and that we kind of think the growth markets will continue to grow in 13.
And I want to think about the U.S.
youve got a slow and steady housing recovery that I think is very positive.
And then there is still lot of physical uncertainty and how those blend through into U.S.
GDP in 2013 well see.
Okay.
And then finally on getting them at life field how does that deposit base impact your flexibility and optionality with regard to PLCC? Well well see.
I think diversified funding base is good in that regard.
Right now we already in that business as you know a lot of it is financed by deposits alternative funding and securitization.
So now weve got a kind of a different kind of deposits more internet bank deposits.
And at the end of the day having more diversified funding I think does give more flexibility for future activity.
We dont have anything of that going on right now but I think just from having a more diversified funding based you would have more optionality.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
The next question comes from the line of Brian Langenberg Langenberg &amp; Company.
Hey good morning Brian.
Hey guys.
Good morning Good morning Jeff.
Just a couple of things Ill do a bunch of follow-ups latter.
Just review first briefly your total exposure of 787 obviously this is transitional or transitory? And then secondly in terms of the power cycle I mean I think were pretty much looking for 2014 overall upturn.
With power are you thinking about potentially what the impact is in its cycle from where I call to me and management either on companies making your buildings 20% more efficient or using grid to make -- of your utility using your grid to make your existing generation capacity.
Lets call it an ops management for utilities if you will just if you can address those two things? Ill take a shot at the aviation first.
Then you can talk about energy.
Maybe -- if you think about 787 exposure we obviously have inventory our plan for 2013 we shipped 113 GEnx engines in 12.
Our plan would be to ship 200 engines.
So well see where Boeing goes with that.
As I said we haven't had any changes to the demand production schedule from Boeing on that yet and a bunch of those engines are on 747 as well.
So for us I think if there is a push out of some engines in the first quarter we may have a little more inventory and having less engines and RevRac maybe slight positive for margins.
I mean I dont really know the difference between what we are going to do this year versus what we did in the first quarter last year until we get finalize the Boeing.
But I dont see a material impact on this on us at all and as I said the engines are performing extremely well.
So we feel good.
The customers love this plane.
Theyve had a ton of positive feedback and Boeing has to work through this issue and they will work through we are confident of that.
Okay.
I would echo what Keith said I think this is an immensely popular airplane fuel efficient passengers like it airlines like it.
So we are here to support Boeing wherever it goes on this 787 on the Dreamliner.
On Energy I think Brian we already factor in the fact that there is going to be an impact on demand side management on demand for electricity.
And you factor that into I think an overall health of the Gas portfolio vis--vis what happens with nuclear what happens with the EPA.
And then demand growth in places like Saudi Arabia Algeria places like that that still remains I think intact.
So we try to factor that all in but we also do factor in Energy Management but we also benefit from that in our Energy Management business.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
Great.
We will take our final question come from the line of Daniel Holland Morningstar.
Hi there.
Good morning.
Hey Dan.
Hi Dan.
Just curious what was pushing Industrial CFOA number down I guess about 2% year-over-year just considering the profit growth than the overall business this year? Yeah.
Really the biggest dynamic for us Daniel is in the Wind business.
The Wind business has significant progress collections in prior periods and in total the Wind business was a drag on working capital in 2012 of about $1.5 billion.
So the rest of the businesses with their earnings growth and management working capital we are able to overcome that.
And then as you know we had about $400 million of pension funding that we did that we didnt have any in 2011.
So that $400 million was also part of the [GE].
But the biggest biggest driver for us on working capital is a drag in the year was wind.
And the businesses overcame that.
Got you.
And one last one just thinking about margins for next year and kind of simplification strategy you guys have identified.
If you think about on a segment-by-segment basis I mean where the biggest opportunities are that you guys see and kind of which ones might have already had the biggest benefit from simplification so far? Its pretty broadly across the company Daniel.
We have every one of our teams working on lowering their structure.
So having more consolidated high level P&amp;Ls we have everybody participating and putting their back offices into centers of excellence and more shared services across the company.
And we have a common IT initiative across the company to reduce our general ledger and enterprise resource planning systems that is pretty much across the portfolio.
So everybody is participating everybody has cost targets and its pretty broadly.
Weve got a lot of good restructuring projects that are year year and a half or two year paybacks.
So were lined up and we think we can keep the structural cost keep going down as a percentage of revenue.
Our target is to really accelerate that.
Great.
Thanks.
So Trevor thanks to everybody.
I just I think the team feels really good about how we did on delivering our commitments in 2012.
Weve identified very clearly our 2013 commitments which we believe are very competitive against our peers and were going to be off executing against that going forward.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Just to wrap up everyone the replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
Well be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital shortly after this call.
Just the one announcement our first quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be on Friday April 19 for your calendar.
So as always wed be available today to take questions.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Trevor Schauenberg vice president of investor communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays first quarter webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast.
The slides are available for download and printing  on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin.
Now Id like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Trevor and good morning everybody.
In the first quarter our market conditions proved to be volatile.
Most of our emerging markets including China remain strong.
However the U.S.
indicators were mixed while housing improved.
Some of our shorter cycle energy segments experienced push outs from March.
We planned for Europe to be similar to 2012 down again but it was even weaker than we had expected.
And finally we had an FX headwind in our oil and gas business.
Based on this backdrop our results were mixed.
Our EPS was $0.39 up 15%.
This was actually $0.35 because not all of the NBC gain was offset by restructuring in the quarter.
Leading indicators in our longer cycle infrastructure businesses were encouraging with orders up 3% which was 6% ex wind.
Equivalent orders were up 10% and we had a 1.3x book-to-bill ratio in the quarter.
So this gives us confidence in our delivery schedule for the second half and beyond.
Power and water was a drag on our overall results.
Wind and thermal units were down in the fourth quarter but that was expected.
We experienced incremental pressure in European services and based on our current backlog however we expect shipments to significantly improve in the second half.
And well show you a detailed chart with the financial profile for the remainder of the year.
Finally GE Capital delivered a solid quarter up 9% while they continue to shrink their noncore assets which are down $17 billion in the quarter versus previous years.
We remain focused on our operating priorities.
We were able to accelerate restructuring actions and weve taken out $200 million of structural SG&amp;A costs in the first quarter well on our way to at least a $1 billion reduction in 2013.
Margins were negatively impacted by some of the revenue shortfalls in Europe in power and water but we remain on track to deliver the 70 basis points margin expansion this year and well show you more details later in the deck.
We finished the quarter with $90 billion of consolidated cash and $22 billion of cash at the parent level.
We returned $3.9 billion of cash to investors in the first quarter including $2 billion of dividends and $1.9 billion of share buyback.
We announced the intent to purchase Lufkin a $3 billion bolt-on acquisition which broadens our artificial lift portfolio in oil and gas.
For perspective GEs artificial lift business grew by 12% in the quarter.
We expect to close this transition and the previously announced Avio deal in the second half of this year and both deals will be accretive to industrial earnings in 2014.
So in summary our industrial segment profits were about $200 million below our expectations and that really was a function of Europe which worsened during the quarter and some short cycle pushouts from March into the second quarter.
We were able to offset that gap by doing a good job on corporate costs and slightly better GE Capital performance.
So thats really a summary of the first quarter.
Overall orders were a good story up 3% overall and 6% ex wind.
Equipment orders grew by 10%.
Oil and gas and aviation were particularly strong and power and water ex wind grew by 10%.
We ended the quarter with $216 billion in backlog which is a record for GE.
Orders pricing was up 0.6 points in line with expectations.
Many growth markets were strong.
China was up 67% Latin America was up 44% the Middle East and Northern Africa were up 22% and Sub-Saharan Africa was up 41%.
Service orders were mixed.
Our investments closely track commercial aviations fares and they grew by 10% in the quarter.
Thats good news.
And while power and water service orders declined commitments increased which helped future periods.
So the orders momentum and equipment and backlog expansion I think positions us well for the second half.
Revenue overall was challenged.
We knew the first quarter was going to be tough.
Overall our organic growth was down 6 points.
But that really was a function of power and water organic growth was up 2 points excluding that segment which is going through a tough cycle.
Our revenue grew by more than 10% in five of nine growth regions including Middle East North Africa and Turkey Sub-Saharan Africa Australia New Zealand ASEAN and China.
We continue to see strength in many regions and believe that growth markets will stay on track for the year.
We grew backlog in service and margins in services.
Europe was a drag on service revenue overall knocking 5 points off our growth.
But meanwhile our oil and gas service revenue was up 10%.
Our investments in R&amp;D continue to pay off.
We were selected by Boeing as sole source for the next-generation 777.
Were launching the worlds most energy-efficient wind turbine.
Our leadership in locomotive technology is at the forefront of potential LNG conversions.
We continue to focus on new NPIs in healthcare and appliances and we have a solid pipeline of advanced gas path upgrades worth about  $500 million which should help power gen services in the balance of the year.
The biggest driver of industrial segment profit is the power and water shipment profile that weve mentioned to you before.
In the first quarter their operating profit was down 39% driven by significantly lower gas turbine wind turbine and aero-derivative unit shipments.
In Europe the service business was down about 22% and was the primary cause of total service revenues being down.
Despite their lower volume the team delivered 70 basis points of services margin improvement and overall the team did a nice job in reducing cost but volume decline was far greater pressuring the margin rates.
We expect the second quarter unit shipment volume to improve slightly but it will still be negative versus last year and services should be positive and continue to grow margin rates in the quarter and throughout the year.
The second half volume is supported by our $9.5 billion equipment backlog and will be up significantly in both wind and aero from the first half.
Services loss will be up in the second half and we have better comps versus Europe.
The higher volume leverage coupled with service margin growth will drive an improved margin rate.
In addition Steve and the team are working to deliver $250 million of structural cost improvements throughout the year.
So these efforts should deliver flat margin rate for the total year.
On total margins the industrial margin rate was 12.9% for the quarter down about 80 basis points but up 40 basis points excluding the power and water cycle.
We saw solid improvement in four of our businesses driven by strong value gap and cost execution.
Oil and gas was negatively impacted by foreign exchange but some of that will come back during the year.
And were planning on four businesses being above 70 basis points improvement overall.
If you look at the first quarter and total year dynamics youll see that we dont expect any significant impact from mix and the R&amp;D drag from the first quarter is mostly timing in aviation and oil and gas and well be neutral by the end of the year.
The value gap was strong in the first quarter and we anticipate it continuing to strengthen throughout the year.
And the biggest negative in the quarter was the volume leverage from power and water and as I said it will be tailwind in the second half of the year.
As Ive said before we went into the year with a plan that would deliver more than 70 basis points of margin expansion.
Given the first quarter dynamics and the short cycle energy-related volume pressure weve eaten into that hedge but we still have an internal plan for 90 basis points of improvement more than the 70 basis points that weve told all of you about.
And that improvement is going to be driven by a change in power and water shipment profile services margin growth and accelerated cost out programs and in many ways our margin progression fits the pattern of previous years.
Cash in the quarter was impacted about $1.5 billion by shipment timing and a couple of unusual items.
We grew working capital by $800 million to support power and water and commercial engine shipments later in the year.
In addition we had an impact of about $800 million in incentive and tax payout timing.
Not included in the number and not in the number is the capital dividend of about $450 million which will be realized in second quarter CFOA.
The company has a very strong cash position with $90 billion in consolidated cash and $22 billion at the parent and we have no change in our overall CFOA framework for the year.
We remain committed to returning $18 billion to investors in 2013 through dividends and buybacks.
So now let me turn it over to Keith and give you more details about the segments.
Thanks Jeff.
Ill start with the first quarter summary.
We had continuing operations revenues of $35 billion and that was flat with last year.
Industrial sales of $22.3 billion are down 6% driven by power and water as you can see on the right side.
GE Capital revenues of $11.5 billion were up 2% and both the total and the capital revenues include the benefit of the NBCU gain.
Operating earnings of $4.1 billion were up [14%] operating earnings per share of $0.39 were up 15% and if you adjust for the net benefit of $0.04 from the gain exceeding restructuring the operating EPS would have been $0.35 and Ill cover that on the next page.
Continuing EPS includes the impact of our non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations which Im also going to cover on the next page.
As Jeff covered CFOA was $200 million driven by the working capital investments incentive payments and tax timing.
For taxes the GE rate at 20% for the quarter is in line with the rate of about 20% that we expect for GE for the year but there could be some variability from quarter to quarter.
And on GE Capital the tax rate was 4% and that rate is down because in the fiscal cliff resolution the active financing exception was retroactively extended which gave us a benefit in the first quarter.
Because of expected additional asset reduction opportunities we currently expect to see a mid-single digit GE Capital rate rather than the 10% rate we previously forecasted.
On the right side of the page you can see the segment results.
Total industrial segment profit was down 11%.
That was driven by power and water as you can see.
Segment profit for the other industrial businesses was up 6% and we expect power and water oil and gas energy management to all improve as the year progresses and Ill cover each of the segments in more detail.
Before I go through the business results Im going to take you through the other items from the first quarter.
Starting with industrial as you know we realized a $1.1 billion pretax gain related to the NBCU transaction and that resulted in an $0.08 after-tax EPS benefit.
The industrial NBCU gain was partially offset by $0.04 of restructuring and other items in the quarter.
The charges related primarily to our cost structure improvements and our ongoing simplification actions across the company.
And the amounts by business are power and water 94 energy management 60 healthcare 48 aviation 46 oil and gas 42 H&amp;BS  38 and corporate 46.
On the bottom of the page youll see the restructuring plan for the rest of the year.
Were planning to offset the additional $0.04 related to the NBCU gain with $0.02 of restructuring in the second quarter and $0.01 each in the third and fourth quarter based on the timing of the restructuring actions being completed and approved.
Moving to GE Capital we had $0.05 of benefit related to the sale of the 30 Rock real estate assets and those gains were offset in two categories.
First we had $0.02 of charges related to the platform exits and restructuring actions.
In the real estate business we had an after tax charge for $123 million that related to our planned exit of another $2.3 billion of equity assets.
In addition we had $53 million of charges related to cost reductions and non-core asset exits in the rest of GE Capital.
The second category is we had $0.03 related to consumer reserves.
In the first quarter we finalized our updates to our reserve models in the U.S.
retail business for a more granular segmentation of loss types.
You know weve been working on that all year last year.
In the quarter this included completion of the analysis on bankruptcy which for us is one of the larger categories of losses and the $0.03 also includes the impact for our consumer portfolios in Europe and Asia and also our current assessment of forecasted chargeoffs across the entire portfolio.
So these adjustments are aligned with regulatory guidance and industry standards and we believe weve completed the methodology adjustments in our consumer franchise.
On discontinued operations at the bottom of the page we had $109 million after-tax impact in the quarter.
On WMC we added $107 million to reserves in the quarter as pending claims increased from $5.4 billion to $6.2 billion.
We ended the quarter with $740 million in reserves covering both the pending and the future claims.
And on gray zones claims were up in the first quarter above our model assumptions.
So we booked $50 million of additional reserves and we ended the quarter with $561 million of reserves.
In total the operating impact from the other items netted to a $0.04 benefit for the quarter and that will be offset through the balance of the year through restructuring as I said.
So let me move on to the businesses.
Ill start with power and water.
We were planning for a tough first half based on the volume comparisons for wind and thermal but the market was even tougher than we expected.
Orders of $5.2 billion were down 13%.
Equipment orders of $2.6 billion were down 6% and thats driven by wind.
Our renewable orders of $1.1 billion were down 27%.
Our thermal orders of $759 million were up 10% and our distributed power orders of $563 million were up 22% so one of the highlights here in the quarter is that excluding wind our equipment orders in power and water were up 16%.
Service orders of $2.5 billion were down 19% and thats driven by tough comparisons as well as order pushouts.
In the quarter we had about $100 million of orders on several gas turbine upgrade projects mostly in the U.S.
that slipped out of the quarter.
And overall orders pricing for the business was flat in the first quarter.
Revenues of $4.8 billion were down 26%.
Jeff showed you the unit comparisons for the first quarter which drove the decline.
Equipment revenue was down 42% and service revenues were down 9%.
And segment profit of $719 million was down 39% driven by the lower volume.
We reduced our SG&amp;A by 14% but it wasnt enough given the unit declines and margins were down 3.2 points.
As we got to the end of the quarter we had challenges in the market.
As I mentioned we had about $100 million of gas turbine upgrade packages that slipped out of the quarter.
We also had two distributed energy projects for a little over $100 million that were delayed and pushed into the second half.
And in addition we had expected a stronger European power and water service market and that was down 22% on lower gas turbine utilization.
So all these items would have been in revenues and of course would have had a significant impact on both margin dollars and rate.
On the right side is oil and gas.
Orders of $4.8 billion were up 11%.
Equipment orders of $2.9 billion were up 24% driven by strong turbo machinery strong drilling and [surface] orders for upstream production.
Service orders of $1.9 billion were down 5% driven by lower drilling and service orders related to lower activity in North America.
Our backlog grew by $2.2 billion in the first quarter to $17 billion and orders pricing across the business was up 1.5% our eighth quarter of order price increases.
Revenue of $3.4 billion was flat.
Equipment revenue of $1.7 billion was down 4% as our growth in drilling and [surface] was more than offset by declines in turbo machinery.
And service revenues of $1.7 billion were up 4%.
That was driven by stronger global spare parts sales partially offset by lower measurement and controls short cycle volume.
M&amp;C was lower as we saw customers delay investment decisions in the portfolio and that impacted our expected revenues in both equipment and service by about $125 million.
Segment profit of $325 million was down 4% as the benefits of service growth were partially offset by higher program spending.
And the one unusual item in the quarter here was we had $34 million of negative foreign exchange related to the weakening of the British pound.
This is on an economic hedge over a long term contract in the business and we will recover.
As we deliver the project that hedge will go back to zero as we deliver the units over the next 12 to 18 months.
Excluding the FX impact segment profit would have been up about 6%.
Next is aviation.
The aviation team had another strong quarter.
Orders of $6.6 billion were up 22%.
Equipment orders of $3.8 billion were up 47%.
Commercial engine orders of $3 billion were up 90% driven by $1.4 billion of LEAP orders and $875 million of GE90 orders.
Military equipment orders of $300 million were down 42%.
Service orders of $2.8 billion were down 2%.
Commercial service orders of $2.2 billion were up 8% and our first quarter average daily spares order rate was $25.3 million per day up 10%.
Military spares were down 44% on tough prior year comparisons.
And overall business pricing was up 2.1%.
Revenue of $5.1 billion was up 4% driven by equipment which was up 8%.
We shipped 596 commercial engines in the quarter.
That was up 13 units or 2%.
And we shipped 279 military engines which were up 44 units or 19%.
Service revenues of $2.5 billion were flat as our commercial spare parts shipments were flat in the quarter.
Segment profit of $936 [billion] was up 9% due to the benefits of a positive value gap and lower SG&amp;A costs more than offset higher R&amp;D and the impact of 28 more GEnx engine shipments.
And margin rates grew 80 basis points in the quarter.
On the right side is healthcare.
Orders of $4.3 billion were down 2%.
Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were down 3%.
For equipment in the developed markets it was down 5% and its the same story weve had.
Last year the U.S.
was flat Europe was down 9% a little worse and Japan was down 26% 16% excluding FX so soft.
Developing markets were up 4% driven by China up 16% Latin America up 4% India down 7% and the Middle East down 19%.
By modality MR was flat CT was down 5% ultrasound was up 7% life sciences was flat and diagnostic guidance systems which is the X-ray plus interventional DGS was down 10%.
Service orders of $2 billion were down 1%.
Revenue of $4.3 billion was flat driven by the growth markets up 10% offset by the developed markets down 4%.
And segment profit of $595 million was up 2% as the benefits of restructuring more than offset the impact of lower pricing and foreign exchange and margin rates were up 30 basis points.
Next is transportation.
Transportation team delivered another solid quarter.
Orders of $1.2 billion were down 26%.
Equipment orders of $413 million were down 59% as locomotive orders were down 70% driven somewhat by tough comparisons and also the net impact of the slowing coal market on the rail industry.
Service orders of $746 million were up 31% driven by strong signaling and orders pricing was up 10 basis points for the business.
Revenues of $1.4 billion were up 12%.
Our equipment revenue was up 3% as the impact of lower locomotive shipments 143 this year versus 159 last year was more than offset with higher mining volumes somewhat driven by the acquisitions.
Service revenues were up 24% driven by higher long term contract revenues in mining services and segment profit of $267 million was up 15% driven by the positive value gap in services growth.
And margins increased 50 basis points.
For energy management orders of $2.2 billion were up 6% driven by power conversion.
It was up 8% and digital energy was up 11%.
Revenues of $1.7 billion were up 2% driven again by power conversion up 11% partially offset by lower revenues in intelligent platforms which was down 15%.
And segment profit of $15 million was down 29%.
Thats only $6 million but it was driven by $15 million of higher expenses in Asia and Brazil for expanded capabilities to deliver the global $2.5 billion backlog thats grown over 25% in the past year.
So segment margins were down 30 basis points driven by those investments and we expect this business to grow segment profit in March and through the rest of the year.
Home and business solutions had another positive quarter.
Revenues of $1.9 billion were flat as we saw 3% growth in appliances partially offset by a 5% decline in lighting sales.
And segment profit of $79 million was up 39% driven by the positive pricing and a little lower program spend.
And margins were up 1.1 points for the quarter.
Next is GE Capital.
Mike Neil and the team delivered another solid result in Q1.
Revenues of $11.5 billion were up 2%.
If you exclude the impact of the 30 Rock gain revenues were down 6% in line with lower assets.
As I covered on the earlier page the impact of the 30 Rock gain was offset by the restructuring and the reserve increases and Ill cover those by business.
And net income of $1.9 billion was up 9% as we more than offset the impact of lower earning assets with core growth and the AFE tax benefit.
We ended the quarter with $402 billion of ending net investment which was down $32 billion from last year and $15 billion from year-end.
And our net interest margin was 5% and our Basel I tier one common ratio improved 65 basis points to a little over 11%.
On the right side of the page you can see our asset quality continues to improve.
Delinquencies were flat or lower across the board.
Our nonearning assets were down year over year and from year-end and our liquidity remains very strong $68 billion of cash and we ended the quarter with less than $40 billion of commercial paper.
Thats the first time in 21 years that weve been under $40 billion so substantial change in the funding profile of this business.
By business the commercial lending and leasing business ended Q1 with assets of $176 billion down 7% from last year driven by primarily by noncore shrinkage including $7 billion lower Penske lower trailer leasing lower [C Co] assets.
Net income of $398 million was down 40% driven by the Americas.
In the Americas net income of $267 million was down 51% and thats driven by lower assets as well as a $166 million after tax impairment charge on one investment in the quarter.
CLL volume was good in the quarter up 8%.
New business returns remain strong at about a 2% ROI.
And asset quality remains strong with flat delinquencies and lower nonearnings.
Our consumer business ended Q1 with assets of $137 billion.
That was up 1%.
Net income of $523 million was down 37% driven by the finalization of the portfolio segmentation that we covered earlier.
U.S.
retail finance earned $382 million which was down $259 million driven by the reserve increase.
Excluding the reserves increase the business was about flat in the quarter.
Asset quality in this business continues to be very strong.
Our 30-day delinquencies at 4.2% are at the lowest level weve seen in 10 years that weve been reporting on this basis.
And U.S.
retail volume was up 6% in the quarter versus last year and core Europe earned $145 million in the quarter.
For real estate the team had another great quarter.
Assets of $43 billion were down 28% from last year.
They were down $3.5 billion from year-end.
Net income of $690 million was up more than $630 million from last year again driven by the gain on 30 Rock.
If you exclude the gain and the charge for the equity exits that I covered earlier real estate earned $261 million and that was up over $200 million from last year driven by higher tax benefits lower losses and marks and higher gains.
In the quarter not including 30 Rock we sold 52 properties for $1.3 billion and $121 million of after tax gains and 30-day delinquencies at 2.16% are the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2008.
For the verticals both [GCAS] and Energy Financial Services had strong quarters in the first quarter.
GCAS earned $348 million of net income.
That was up 9%.
Earnings were driven by lower impairments and higher operating income and EFS net income of $83 million was up 17% driven by higher gains.
So overall GE Capital delivered another strong result in the quarter and as you look forward to Q2 well continue to have the loss of earnings from shrinking assets ahead of schedule and if you adjust for the one-time items that I just covered a normalized run rate for GE Capital at the first quarter was about $1.8 billion to $1.85 billion.
In Q2 well also have the preferred dividend payment for the first half of 2013 and that is covered in our corporate line in our operating framework that Jeffs going to cover in a minute.
So with that let me turn it back to Jeff.
Thanks.
Just again on the 2013 framework we have no change to the overall operating framework for the year.
And by that I mean specifically we expect our EPS to grow in line with previous commitments.
The mix will change.
We believe its going to be hard for our power and water business earnings in 13 to equal 12 which weve talked about previously primarily due to the incremental weakness that were seeing in power gen in Europe and services.
As a result our industrial earnings will grow in the range of high single-digits to double digits.
On the positive side we expect capital earnings to be slightly better and our corporate costs will be lower.
Previously we were at $3.5 billion in corporate costs and were now targeting $3 billion so thats an improvement of $500 million.
We expect to hit our margin goals and we are on track to drive SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to 15% by 2014 while organic growth could be at the end of the range.
Weve reflected the changes that weve seen in the market and were going to be aggressive on costs as we go through the year.
So on balance the rest of the framework remains unchanged.
And finally just in summary some of our markets in the first quarter of 13 were more challenging than expected.
Europe was tougher and some of the short cycle markets were slower in March and we saw some push outs.
But despite that we still plan to achieve our full year EPS framework really based on power and water strengthening stronger backlog and deliveries capital strength and more cost out.
And we plan to achieve our margin goals.
We ended the quarter with very strong cash position of $90 billion consolidated and $22 billion at the parent and we plan to return $18 billion to investors in dividends and buyback while continuing to execute on bolt-on acquisitions.
So in a challenging environment were committed to delivering for investors.
Trevor let me turn it back to you and lets take some questions.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you Keith.
Operator lets open up the phone lines for questions.
I know we have another earnings call later today so lets try to limit the questions to two a piece if we could today.
Thank you.
[Operator instructions.]  And our first question is coming from the line of Scott Davis from Barclays.
Just on the margin targets and I dont want to make you repeat yourself for the third time today but just to be clear you are expecting to make the 70 basis points for the year including power and water right?  Not excluding power and water? Yeah including power and water.
I think we started the year with more than we needed at 130 basis points to 140 basis points.
We spent a little bit of that in the first quarter but we see power and water strengthening for the year.
We think the margin rate for power and water will be kind of flat year over year.
And even with that we expect margin rates to grow by 70 basis points and   we still have a hedge in that number.
This is not an uncommon profile for us in terms of the way that the year lines up and stuff like that.
I dont know Keith do you want to just go through some of the dynamics of the margins? Sure.
Let me just start with the profile and then we can go back to the pieces if you want Jeff.
Over the last seven years we always have margin growth from the first quarter to the total year.
And in five of the last seven years we have declines in the first quarter.
So its not an uncommon profile for us.
We grow our margins from the first quarter anywhere between 50 and 280 basis points.
On average its about 150 basis points.
And in 2006 and 2010 we grew our margins approximately what we need for 2013.
So its not uncommon and we do have a lot of work to do and we can take you through the pieces either by the categories or by business Scott whatever youd like.
I think thats what weve got in all of our expectations and all the execution models for the team.
And as a follow up when you think about this backlog that youre building and book-to-bill is solid and such but are you booking this backlog at a margin thats accretive to your existing margin structure that helps yield some confidence one for the 70 basis points but also set us up for 2014 to see operating margins continue to move forward? The margins in backlog are actually higher.
Weve had good pricing for the past five quarters and our value gap when you really hone in our value gap it is wildly positive.
We had a very strong value gap in the first quarter.
Thats only going to ramp for the year.
So the value gap could be $800 million plus this year.
And so I think that all portends to good health in the backlog.
Your next question is from the line of Steve Tusa of JPMorgan Chase.
My first question is on a little bit of housekeeping on oil and gas.
Definitely a weaker performance than I was expecting.
The margin down year over year the orders there have been trending really well.
You said turbo machinery was down.
Can you maybe give us a little bit more color around what drove the downside there? Are you talking about top line or are you talking about orders? Top line and profit I guess both.
Ill start overall with orders.
Turbo machinery had very strong orders.
They were up 70% it was driven by strong upstream.
Again those are a little longer cycle in terms of when they deliver.
Drilling and surface was up 48%.
We had more BOPs and risers up </strong>and artificial lift was up.
Subsea And on revenue turbo machinery revenues were down in the quarter.
I think some of this is timing.
We had large LNG projects in the quarter relative to last years Gorgon and LNG projects Curtis project in Australia.
Drilling and surface was up 6% with artificial lift up 15%  And subsea was down 10%.
Again we had some tough timing relative to projects last year.
But the backlog itself is up a couple of billion dollars.
And pricing is up for the eighth quarter in a row and its a little longer cycle.
I think the only softness in M&amp;C services was something were watching.
It was a little less than we expected a little over $100 million as we just saw some push outs and people pushing out the investment decisions.
But the core of oil and gas subsea drilling and production turbo machinery has a very good outlook in terms of equipment deliveries.
These guys were on a profit basis probably 30 or 40 weaker than I really wanted them to do this quarter.
I still think this business is going to be high single-digit revenue strong double-digit operating profit growth for the year.
I think what Keith mentioned we saw late in the quarter kind of a flow business in the control side thats something that were not counting on necessarily getting better for the year but it was just kind of around the edges or else I think we would have done better in the quarter.
And then one follow up.
Again were kind of sitting here in a tough macro.
This happened in the fourth quarter.
I guess when I look at these results and I listen to you guys explaining whats going on here its mind boggling how many moving parts there are here especially again in GE Capital.
At what point do we again kind of maybe evaluate the size and complexity of the organization and make I guess a tougher longer term decision on the structure of the company?  It just seems like a little bit of macro weakness kind of goes a long way and theres just so many moving parts to even be able to forecast and manage it.
It has to be a challenge.
So Im just curious as to how you guys view that in the boardroom.
Let me just go back and tell you what happened vis--vis my expectations.
I just want to maybe talk openly and just give you a thought.
I think the industrial side was about $200 million weaker than I would have planned for -- what our internal plan was.
We basically saw Europe --  Europe was running negative 5 negative 8 through February.
By the end of the quarter that was negative 15.
That was a pretty big move.
I think youve seen it reflected in a lot of other companies announcements.
On the short cycle stuff we saw pushes pretty consistent with what other people had seen.
Now given the volatile time the leadership team created multiple hedges in the plan.
We had a $500 million  we were always running corporate for less than what we needed.
We had other hedges in the company.
So by the time you put it all together were basically consistent with commitments which is the way youd want us to run the place.
So I just think were explaining $200 million out of a big company but weve been able to offset that through other hedges and operating disciplines that weve got inside the company which is I think what you want us to do.
Thats my story.
I appreciate it.
I think this year is obviously the -- again were kind of sitting here and its back end loaded.
So the second half is a very serious commitment that I know a lot of the investors I talk to are going to be watching very closely.
Were focused on it as well.
Its the way all the comp plans are driven and the basic cycle of power and water is more or less consistent with the way we had talked about the year.
This is a power and water story.
If you look our revenues take out the NBCU gain and youre looking at industrial sales were down $1.3 billion.
Thermal and wind are down $1.5 billion.
This is what were going to be wrestling through.
Its that power and water volume profile that Jeff showed you.
Your next question is from the line of Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Jeff you commented on the 2 to 6 thats more towards the lower end of that range for the full year.
And it seems that the weakness in oil and gas and the weakness in power and water are more of a timing issue so weve seen some push outs.
But the profile seems to be very much in line with what youd expected.
So Im just wondering what else is driving this down towards the lower end of that range for the full year.
First of all I think its prudent to do that because you had a negative 5 in the first quarter but Im just wondering maybe in some of the short cycle businesses where are we now versus where we were in December? I think the way we look at just in total how we run the company is we dont necessarily assume things are going to get better.
So not in a catastrophic way but we saw Europe marginally get worse during the quarter.
Were now not counting on that getting better.
We saw a couple of short cycle businesses get pushed.
Weve gone through a pretty granular analysis here of what we think comes back and what we shouldnt count on.
And I think when you do that calculus we just think the smartest thing to do is to say to investors look we think this could be at the low end of the range because were not counting on stuff getting better during the year.
If it does great.
But were not counting on it.
And were going to take out costs accordingly so that we kind of hedge our bets.
So thats really the answer.
We just dont count on everything coming back that got pushed and we dont count on things that we view as getting incrementally worse getting better.
When we calculate our models should we be putting a bit more pressure on healthcare and perhaps home and business solutions or is it fairly evenly spread? Power and water we would like to surprise you guys on the upside as you go through the year right?  So think about the power and water profile in the year.
And then other than that Id say healthcare was a smidge weaker than we would have expected but we still think oil and gas and home and business and the other businesses are going to be pretty solid.
I think you said it exactly right.
When you look at what happened in the quarter we tried to take that into account and decide what does it mean for the year and not counting on Europe certainly getting a lot better.
Thats going to take you probably to the low end of the organic range.
Power and water we originally thought would be close to flat.
I think today were saying power and water probably for the year will be down a bit and thats based on the profile that we saw in the quarter and our expectation of what that means for the year.
You do see it getting better in the second half and you do see the recovery but in total its probably a little weaker than we wanted for the total year.
The other businesses well see.
I think weve got a great backlog in oil and gas.
Weve got to execute on the long cycle projects.
What will we see in the short cycle there?  Well have to see.
I think healthcare were talking about plus or minus 1% here not a lot of change versus our expectations in the healthcare model I would say.
So I think its prudent to plan the way we are and as Jeff said were going to continue to grind away at taking out the costs.
Weve got more restructuring that will happen through the year as we said.
Were committed to getting the billion dollars of cost out.
And it could be higher based on what we have to do to rightsize this place for this market.
And a quick one on the internal plan the 1.3 points of internal target for margin.
Does that include the additional benefit from the restructuring from the NBCU gain?  Because the 1.3 points is higher than I expected? Yeah it does.
Thats one of the drivers to the difference.
Your next question is coming from the line of Julian Mitchell Credit Suisse.
If I think about the EBIT bridge you called out four main items behind that this quarter.
Last quarter there was a fifth which was also service.
If I think about service and R&amp;D in R&amp;D you had said back in January that should be sort of flattish as a margin driver.
Do you still believe that?  You highlight the fact that R&amp;D was up 7% in Q1.
Is there something extra on R&amp;D pressure maybe around the LEAP [X] or something that we need to think about? And secondly on services you had a plus-plus there for services in the Q4 earnings slides.
Services now you had four consecutive quarters of flat to down orders.
The commentary around European services is obviously very bad.
And I just wondered if your margin guidance embeds a recovery or how much of a recovery in services over the balance of the year? The services let me go to that point first.
We do expect a services improvement as we go through the year.
We have some specific items that were working on.
For example in power and water as Jeff talked about weve got these advanced gas path upgrades.
Weve got over 50 of them that were working on for the year.
We sold two in the quarter.
Weve got a number of those in the backlog and a number of that still have to be closed.
So I think there are some specific items that we do expect.
We have some comparisons in Europe that could be a little bit better.
And the service margin rate was up 30 basis points in the first quarter.
So I think for us when you look at the four factors on the margin page: mix which does include equipment versus services was a positive 10 basis points in the quarter.
Were estimating it will be flat for the year.
Were counting on less wind.
Were counting on more GNX engines as you saw but that was kind of in the run rate for the first quarter.
And were counting on some services growth as we expect equipment to grow as we go into the second half.
So we do have some services growth in the plan.
R&amp;D the [unintelligible] will be flat.
I dont expect that to be a headwind.
I think we had aviation and oil and gas in Q1 that were at a higher run rate but in total thats going to be flat for the year.
It will be flat as a percentage of sales yeah.
Thats right in line.
And what Keith said on margin rates again I think weve got a good window on margin accretion in the service business.
And then just secondly on the top line.
If you think about sequestration I guess how are you thinking about that playing into your guidance for the revenue outlook in the military aftermarket in aviation and also for U.S.
healthcare?  Did you see much of an effect?  Or was it kind of just noise that caused some push outs?  And was that a factor behind the low end of the revenue growth guidance comment? Let me start with aviation.
We have about 90% of our equipment on firm order for the year.
And so as you saw in the quarter the equipment was actually up in the quarter equipment deliveries.
We believe that thats going to remain very strong.
Were in certain programs that are priorities for the Defense Department and things that are on firm commitment arent being cut right now.
We did see a decline in service orders.
Some of that was versus comparisons we had last year.
And well have to see how that plays out for the year.
It was down about 14% in the quarter on revenue.
I think thats about what the team expects for run rates on services.
But in the back half of the year well have to see how the sequestration in total plays out.
I think theres a couple of offsets that youve got to think about.
One is our international military engine business is very strong.
We had orders for about a little under 200 F-110s for the Saudi air force.
That extends the production line of the F-110 product through 2016.
We had India order for the light combat aircraft on the 414 and Switzerland on the 414.
And weve got some significant orders in line for helicopter engines for both the army and the navy.
So I think were concerned about it on the short cycle side in services.
I think it could put some pressure in the back half of the year.
In terms of healthcare the U.S.
market was just slow.
Is there one driver?  I think its just the fact that theres a lot of uncertainty around healthcare.
Providers are consolidating.
Theyre worried about costs and making profit and theyre just being cautious on purchasing.
So there weve got to drive our technology.
And we have to continue to drive the productivity and thats what that healthcare team is going to do.
I think their year is going to depend on continuing to do well in the emerging markets as well as taking the costs out.
They had a good cost out performance in the quarter and theyve got to continue to do that through the rest of the year.
The next question is coming from the line of Jeff Sprague Vertical Research.
First question is maybe on capital allocation.
It dovetails a little bit with what Steve asked.
There was an 8-K that came out about a week after the proxy outlining that comp is going to be tied to 2015 industrial profits as a percent of earnings.
Im not sure why that wasnt in the proxy but the real question is can you share that target with us?  It seems very apropos to the valuation construct in the stock? I think the way to think about that is its going to be consistent with with what we talk about externally vis--vis vision for the company over the next three years.
So in many ways youve got a perspective for that Id say already.
And its a balance of the measurements.
Weve got a cumulative EPS weve got a cumulative cash.
Weve got a percent of earnings that are coming out of the industrial business which we expect to increase through the growth playbook period here through that three-year period as well as a return on total capital which will also incorporate one of the returns from both our industrial side and our financial services side.
I think if you go back to the December outlook meeting youll see the guideposts.
And I think what we try to do is triangulate between total EPS wanting to keep that on a certain trajectory and managing the mix of industrial financial generating cash and making sure that our return on total capital.
So Id say the four metrics we have are pretty interwoven vis--vis how we think about value creation and how our investors want us to run the place.
But I would go to the outlook meeting and thats what gives you the guideposts.
Thats what I wanted to clarify.
Thank you.
And then just thinking about industrial just kind of trying to put these pieces together it looks like youre going to pick up $0.04 in corporate on the lower guide.
It looks like capital tax rate is $0.04.
Its unclear if industrial tax rate is a little bit lower.
But it feels like youre taking a dime out of industrial.
Is that the right way to think about it?  And could you share why corporate actually is going to be lower than you thought? I think what were basically saying is we think about the segments.
I wouldnt change any of those other than necessarily power and water.
And I think we basically guided power and water flat.
And were saying that could be down slightly.
So I dont think we would agree with your math.
Yeah thats very high.
The capital tax rate is in the context of the total capital earnings for the year.
Theres going to be a set of asset optimization transactions that were looking at.
Some of them will cause potentially higher tax benefits and it may also go with the lower earnings.
So I dont think were trying to do a direct offset for capital.
And for corporate basically what weve been able to do first of all we had some better performance in the first quarter from NBC.
That wont continue obviously but thats included in the negative 172 that we have sitting here.
And then on a run rate basis we think were going to be somewhere around $750-775 million of base corporate expenses.
We are getting some benefits from our simplification efforts.
We have lower spending across the corporate functions.
Theyre going to be down 10% for the year.
And that benefit will help us on our overall cost goals of getting $1 billion plus out for the year.
The next question is from the line of Shannon OCallaghan of Nomura.
Can you give us the gas turbine and wind turbine unit orders for the quarter? Gas turbines we had 8 units in the quarter.
We had 4 steam turbines versus 1.
On the wind turbines it was down.
On renewables we had 584 wind turbines versus 696 last year.
So its down about 30%.
Just thinking about this you shipped 12 in gas turbines and you got orders for 8.
Whats going on by geography in that number?  I dont know the last time those were that low.
Thats a pretty low number.
What are you seeing geographically?  And do you have any visibility into things getting better? Theyre very spread obviously in the quarter.
Weve got a couple of Latin America a couple in the Middle East one in Russia one in [Azian] one in the U.S.
So theyre spread out.
I think as you look forward were expecting to be somewhere between around 120-130 gas turbines for the year in orders.
So youre going to see that pick up through the year.
We do see some heavy activity in the Middle East.
Weve got some in EMEA and weve got some in Latin America and weve got some in Africa.
So its pretty spread.
I think there some core activity in the Middle East which will be the foundation of that activity for the year.
The [unintelligible] report we were up three points of share in gas turbine in 2012 so our position is still strong.
And I think what Keith said its still our expectation to have 120-ish of orders in the year.
And then just a follow up on the mix question.
In terms of getting to the 65% industrial earnings with the mix adjustments to this year that you made today obviously 13 is not going to be a year that really gets you far in that direction of the target.
With power and water kind of tracking below what you thought does this reassess your route to the target in terms of organic methods versus portfolio moves? Id say the macro was a little bit tougher than we had expected coming into it but we still expect to have a really good year industrially inside the company.
And so I still think there is a good chance that our percentage of earnings in industrial grows this year even with the adjustments that we made today.
And weve always been very open on portfolio moves vis--vis what were trying to do in GE Capital around really focusing on the green assets and being very open in an investor friendly way to look at the portfolio.
So well continue to work that but well do it in a smart way.
Well do it in an investor friendly way.
Again I think if you go back to the question Jeff asked earlier total EPS is a metric how we allocate capital is a metric and industrial percentage of earnings is a metric total CFOA is a metric.
So were going to drive value around all four of those metrics as we look at it going forward.
But we expect to have a good year industrially this year.
And you look at capital we ended the quarter at $402 billion of [any].
Its down $32 billion from last year.
Theres not a lot of huge transactions in there.
Were continuing to run off.
Weve got over $60 billion of noncore assets.
We continue to run those off.
The real estate gain enabled us to add to the current real estate plan.
Another $2 billion of equity assets that we expect to exit this year.
And so youre going to continue to see asset declines based on the red asset runoffs.
If we can get a little better GDP a little higher growth in the CLL business that would be great.
But right now you say that market continues to be relatively flat for asset growth and we need a little better economy to see that pick up.
So right now I would expect that youre going to continue to see any declines in GE Capital.
Your next question is from the line of John Inch Deutsche Bank.
Just want to pick up on the capital issue.
What do you think is the dilution associated with capital downsizing say in 2013 year over year and obviously that includes some of the actions that you described based on the gains that you were opportunistically able to leverage this quarter? Just on actual volume if you took $35 billion at a 1.5% return that would be a total year estimate of the loss margin lost earnings that they have.
They offset some of that with cost.
Our new business volume has been at better returns.
But that will size it for you roughly.
If thats what youre asking.
It is.
From an E&amp;I context E&amp;I is going to drop sub-400 Im assuming relatively quickly.
Where do you think it ends?  Whats the trajectory ultimately?  Is it you just subtract the 60 and you have some optionality around some of the other possible investments like in offshore banks or some of the other stuff?  Or is there some other asset to that? The team is not trying to just have $60 billion of noncore assets go out and not grow the core business.
Were actually trying to remix as you know.
So far though if you look at the last couple of years our runoff in noncore has exceeded our remixing.
So it depends upon what that remixing looks like.
Right now we continue to be active in the market.
Our organic volume is low single digits.
And we have a lot of refinancing that has occurred.
We would like to acquire some portfolios.
If we could find the price to match our objectives on returns we would do that.
So we have capacity obviously.
Weve been shrinking and building up the equity.
But so far if you just look at whats happened so far the runoff of noncore has exceeded the remix into the green assets.
And well see what happens.
As weve said in the framework discussions big material portfolio moves are not part of the base plan.
But were going to look at those opportunistically.
We do have some value maximizing franchises in the business obviously and if we had the opportunity to move some of those based on the market or buyers or a better appetite we would definitely evaluate those.
But right now the base plan is to continue to remix.
If you look at the last couple of years the runoff has exceeded core growth.
And well see how that plays out.
And we do have opportunity on value maximizing.
As a follow up could you spend just a second on China?  It actually seemed to be one of the brighter spots in your quarter.
And Chinas obviously kind of within a recession last year.
What are you seeing today in your businesses there and the trajectory?  And if you could maybe put it in the context of price and orders and just how youre feeling about that market and its future contribution.
We had revenue up double digits last year we had revenue up double digits in the quarter.
And we had orders that were up 60% plus almost 70%.
So I always try to answer this that we are a composite of the businesses were in and not necessarily a reflection of everything.
So if you think about our three biggest businesses which are aviation healthcare and power and water all three of them are in a pretty good cycle right now.
Healthcare continues to grow strong double digits.
Healthcare was up 14.
Aviation was up favorably.
They had $900 million of orders.
Oil and gas was a good quarter up 76%.
Energy and power was down about 30.
[Cross talk] The gas tailwind over time with more gas turbine demand vis--vis coal and other fuels.
I think over the long term its going to portend well.
So we think China will continue to be a good story.
I guess the question is Europe not just for GE but others the down side surprised this quarter.
It sounds like China was a little bit of an upside surprise.
Do you think this trend is sustainable?  Or is there some kind of a first of year blip or aberration because of the timing of who knows what? I think our growth region story is still pretty strong.
Orders are up 17% overall.
We see this as more of a tailwind than a headwind for the year.
I think youve got to level-ize the 70% order rate.
Were planning on double digit order rates in China and the start to the year gives us confidence that well have that for the year.
Your next question is coming from the line of Deane Dray Citi Research.
I was hoping to get some color on the updated restructuring plans for the balance of the year.
Your initial plan was the bulk was coming in in the second and third quarter.
I see some has slipped into the fourth quarter.
But just comment on the timing.
What are the areas youre able to talk about on the balance of these restructurings the payback?  And we do recognize that these will be excluded from operating results because youve had part of that gain slip through or fall through on the first quarter.
Thats right.
Weve tried to give you the profile.
And in the second and third quarter its really a function of getting all of the work complete to be able to meet the criteria required to do the accounting.
We have to have the plan finalized.
We have to take all the actions including getting whatever approvals might be required of works councils or negotiating with unions that we have contractually in place.
And some of those things are just going to fold into the second third and fourth quarter.
And some of that money thats in the second third and fourth quarters is related to projects weve already approved its just the timing of getting those expenses accrued on the restructuring will fall into those later quarters.
So the majority of it is going to be headcount and plant closing and site closings.
We continue to downsize our footprint and as part of simplification people are reducing the number of profit and loss centers across the company.
We are reducing the number of business sites or consolidating into common lease facilities.
Were closing some of our older capacity plants.
Youve seen some of that in the U.S.
And consolidating it to different facilities that are more productive.
So weve just got a tremendous amount of activity.
Its spread across the world.
Its probably about half in the U.S.
and the rest spread between Europe and Asia and a little bit in Latin America.
And its substantially reductions in compensation and benefits and then facilities.
And the payback is about 18 months.
Your next question is from the line of Steve Winoker of Sanford Bernstein.
Just to switch gears to capital for a second any reason that youd have to believe that the context is different in terms of thinking about the dividend announced since that was made roughly in May last year as you look out now?  Any reason to believe that things have shifted in a way such that we should be thinking about that differently in 2013 versus what happened in 2012? I dont believe so.
As you know were not one of the CCAR entities.
We do go through our own process that mirrors a lot of that activity one on one with our regulator.
We dont comment on any of those discussions.
We have done obviously stress tests and capital plans.
And well work constructively with them on that.
And our current expectation is that the timing would be similar to the last year and if that changes well let you know.
But thats our current expectation.
The B&amp;I is lower and the ratios are better.
GE Capital is in a very strong position right now.
And just a minor question but [unintelligible] had talked about $200 million of additional spend in the LEAP X and [Silver Crest] so its obviously across two engines there.
Im just trying to equate your responsibility on the LEAP X side.
Have we seen whatever tick up there might be already?  Because they said that was additional spending that were going to be doing going forward.
Have we seen that with you guys already? Well you saw the R&amp;D and aviation is up.
We do expect and have that in the run rate.
The tradeoff that we have is the Gen X spending on the [pit] programs comes down.
But aviation has been spending a lot of money.
In total for R&amp;D we expect it to be flat as a percentage of revenue for the business.
Aviation will probably be a little higher than the other businesses and its in line with all the new programs that they have.
As you saw the LEAP the Passport the finish of the [pit] programs on the Gen X.
And the next question is from the line of Andrew Obin Bank of America Merrill Lynch Just a question on restructuring.
I think you mentioned that there is an 18-month payback on restructuring? Thats right.
So can you just talk about what was the margin cushion before NBC your divestiture right when you upped the restructuring targets? It was more than 70 basis points.
The restructuring obviously has added to it.
I dont have that broken out specifically.
A couple hundred million bucks something like that.
But from that perspective that would flow into 2014 as well right? Yeah.
Look like I said were going to by 14 SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue is going to be 15%.
Were on that path and were going to stay on that path.
And just a little bit more granularity as to which businesses youre going to do restructuring in throughout the year how that will flow business by business for the year? I dont have it split by business.
I think it would be pretty similar to the profile that I gave you.
I gave you the dollars by business for the first quarters restructuring.
I dont see any reason why we wouldnt have a little higher proportion in the power and water energy management and healthcare.
Those would be the three priorities.
Great.
Weve hit all the questions.
So just to close out today the replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
Well be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital soon.
I have a couple of announcements regarding some upcoming investor events and dates.
Next Wednesday April 24 is our 2013 annual shareholders meeting in New Orleans.
We hope to see you there.
On May 22 Jeff will present at the 2013 Electrical Products Group EPG conference.
On June 19 David Joyce and Norma Lu will host an analyst meeting in conjunction with the Paris Air Show.
And then finally our second quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be on Friday July 19.
So thank you everyone.
As always well be available today to take your questions.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Shaquana and I will be your conference coordinator today.
(Operator instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Shaquana.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays second quarter webcast.
Regarding the materials for the webcast we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast.
The slides are available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have a large group here.
We have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; our Vice Chairman and new CEO of GE Capital Keith Sherin; and our new CFO for GE Jeff Bornstein.
Now lets turn over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Trevor.
Good morning everybody.
On the first page our environment improved slightly in the second quarter.
Emerging markets remained resilient while Europe stabilized.
Orders in the US were the strongest weve seen in some time with 20% growth and overall our orders grew by 4% and backlog increased to $223 billion.
Earnings were solid.
Reported EPS was $0.36 but this includes $0.02 of uncovered restructuring.
On a sustained basis it would have been $0.38 up slightly from 2012.
And year-to-date EPS is $0.75 up 6%.
Operations were strong in the quarter.
Margins grew by 50 basis points and were on-track for 70 basis points for 2013.
Our simplification efforts have resulted in $470 million of costs year-to-date and we had a solid performance in cash.
Our disciplined and balanced capital allocation plan continues.
Through the half we have return about $10 billion to investors while on the way to our $18 billion goal.
As for M&amp;A weve completed Lufkin and Avio and Avio remains on-track for a third quarter close.
So all in all a good quarter for operating and strategic execution.
Our orders growth remained solid at plus 4% and as I said earlier backlog grew to $223 billion.
Performance was broad based.
We had services grow in five of our six businesses.
Orders growth accelerated in China the US and Europe.
Aviation and oil and gas remained very strong with their combined backlog growing by $7 billion.
Let me give you a few other highlights.
Oil and gas orders grew by 24% with double digit growth in four of five segments.
Aviation commercial spare orders grew by 19%.
Healthcare Solutions equipment orders grew by 9% in the US.
Energy management orders grew by 19%.
North American power generation service orders grew by 24%.
We still have a few headwinds like heavy duty gas turbines but there are signs of strength.
We continue to add price to backlog with orders pricing up 0.9% and we have now had positive orders priced for the past six quarters.
This will contribute to a positive value gap in the second half of 2013 and beyond.
Our organic growth was down 1% for the quarter but it's really a wind turbine story.
Organic growth ex- Power &amp; Water grew by 5%.
Growth markets expanded by 5% with four of nine regions up by double-digits.
We continue to make progress in key regions like Russia Africa and China.
Our growth market position is a competitive advantage for GE.
Services grew by 2% with broad-based strength and we are encouraged by services in aviation oil and gas and transportation.
Transportation services is of particular highlight with growth of 28%.
We continue to be impacted by the sluggish European economy for gas turbine services and U.S.
sequestration impacted our military spares business.
The service margins grew by 70 basis points and backlog grew to $166 billion.
We made solid progress across the company with our new product launches.
The Paris Air Show was very successful for GE with $26 billion of wins.
We are gaining share in healthcare with robust product launches and are expanding service offerings with new software launches in aviation power and healthcare.
In the second half revenue will be positively impacted by power and water shipment timing specifically 70% of our gas turbines wind turbines and distributed power products will be shipped in the second half.
We have strong margin expansion with growth of 50 basis points.
Every business grew in the quarter except for home and business solutions and even in that segment appliances expanded while lighting lagged.
And we are on-track for 70 basis points for the year.
Key margin execution drivers are within our control.
We will have one of the strongest value gaps in history as generate both price and material deflation.
We will manage R&amp;D to be flat for the year.
We will reduce SG&amp;A by at least $1 billion.
We continue to execute multiple restructuring projects with attractive paybacks.
And we are in the process of completing our projects for 2013 while developing a pipeline of new ideas.
The key driver for margin improvement in the second half is the power and water volume growth where we remain on-track.
Overall margins were slightly better than we expected in second quarter and that gives us more confidence going forward.
Our cash execution improved in the quarter.
Our second quarter industrial CFOA was up 60% excluding the impact of NBCU related taxes.
In the quarter we announced that GE Capital will pay up to $6.5 billion dividend to the parent for the year.
And we remain on-track for our CFOA goals.
We have returned $9.9 billion to investors in the first half through dividends and buyback.
This is well on our way to our $18 billion goal.
Our announced deals of Lufkin and Avio will close in the second half.
Both fit our model of (inaudible) that are accretive to earnings.
We end the quarter with a consolidated cash position of $89 billion with $19 billion at the parent.
This is a symbol of our financial strength and supports balanced capital allocation.
And now over to Keith as you know this will be his last call but you will see him again at GE Capital and welcome to Jeff my new partner.
So Keith over to you.
Jeff thanks.
So I will start with the second quarter summary.
We had continuing operations revenues of $35 billion that was down 4% from last year.
Industrial sales of $24.6 billion are down 2% driven by power and water as you can see on the right side.
GE Capital revenues of $11 billion were down 3% operating earnings of $3.7 billion were down 8%.
Operating earnings per share of $0.36 were down 5%.
As Jeff said that includes actually $0.03 of restructuring which I will cover on the next page including the capital restructuring.
And we also no longer have the NBCU earnings which was $0.02 in 2012 in the second quarter.
Continuing EPS includes the impact of non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations which I will also cover in the next page.
As Jeff covered the CFOA was $3.7 billion including a very strong performance in Q2 from the industrial CFOA plus $1.9 billion of GE capital dividends back to the parent.
For taxes the GE rate of 17% for the quarter is below the 20% rate we previously communicated for the year.
We had an audit resolution with the IRS in the quarter and because thats required to be recorded entirely in the quarter rather than spread over the year it caused the rate to be lower in the quarter.
We might have other audit resolutions during the year and depending on the outcome we currently expect the rate of high teens to 20% for GE for the full year.
The capital rate is down from our forecast because of larger benefits including the tax efficient foreign disposition transactions as well as the recapture of prior un-taxed losses of real estate.
As we previously indicated we do expect the GE Capital rate in the mid-single digits for the year but there could be some variability as GE Capital as well depending on IRS audit resolutions and the tax on other possible dispositions.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Total industrial segment profit was up 2%.
Ex-Power &amp; Water our industrial businesses grew their segment profit by 12%.
Power &amp; Water was down in the second quarter.
However the results were a significant improvement over Q1.
GE Capital earnings were down in the second quarter in line with lower assets and we will cover all the segments in more detail over the next several pages.
Before I get to the businesses I will start with the other items page from Q2.
At the top in total we had $0.03 of restructuring and other charges in the quarter; $0.02 related to industrial and that's in the corporate line of the industrial recording and $0.01 was in GE Capital.
We continue to reduce our cost structure by lowering our SG&amp;A headcount.
We're rationalization our footprint and this should be a nice tailwind for margins as we go into the second half.
We also had a $0.01 charge in the quarter related to an impairment for an investment that we made in Brazil and that charge was also included in the corporate line.
We had two one-time benefits in the quarter.
First as I mentioned on the previous page we had a favorable IRS settlement which resulted in almost four points lower GE tax rate in Q2 and in total contributed $0.1 in industrial benefit.
And second in GE capital we exited our fleet platform in Canada which resulted in a $0.1 benefit in the quarter and the benefit from this transaction was mostly tax related and contributed to a lower GE capital tax rate.
For discontinued operations at the bottom of the page we had 122 million after tax impact in the quarter.
In WMC we recorded a $128 million of new pending claims so that's down significantly over the run rates that weve been seeing.
And we added $47 million of reserves in the quarter resulting in a total reserve balance of $787 million covering both pending and future claims.
On gray zone we booked $76 million of additional reserves to reflect ongoing claims and we ended the quarter with $557 million in reserves.
On the bottom of the page is a summary of our operating EPS and our industrial gains and restructuring.
In the first quarter we reported $0.39 of operating EPS and that included $0.04 of net benefit as in Q1 NBCU gain was greater than our industrial restructuring.
In Q2 we reported $0.36 and that included a $0.02 drag from industrial restructuring again in the corporate line.
And we expect to have at least $0.02 more of industrial restructuring in the second half.
So for the total year we don't expect the NBCU gain in restructuring to have an any impact on EPS.
So Ill move on to businesses and let me start with Power and Water.
Orders of $6 billion were down 1% and Europe remained challenging down 40%.
Ex-Europe orders were up 6%.
Equipment orders of $3 billion were down 5%.
Thermal orders remained soft at $690 million down 50%.
We had orders for 24 heavy duty gas turbines versus 30 last year.
We had a strong renewables quarter with orders of $1.4 billion up 55%.
Distributed Power Orders of $700 million were up 3%.
And Service Orders of $3 billion were up 2%.
Again ex-Europe services orders were up 13% driven by the strong U.S power gen services both outages and upgrades with orders up 29%.
Overall for Power and Water orders pricing was up 1.6%.
Revenue of $5.7 billion was down 17% driven by lower volumes.
Equipment revenue of $2.6 million was down 30%.
We shipped 19 gas turbines versus 31 last year and we shipped 351 wind turbines versus 726 last year.
Service revenue of $3.1 billion was down 3%.
Power gen services revenue was down 1% total but up 14% ex-Europe again driven by the strength in the U.S.
which was up 20%.
Segment profit of $1.087 million was down 17% driven by the lower volume.
SG&amp;A cost were down 9% in Q2 value gap was positive and margins increased by 10 basis points.
So Q2 showed improvement over Q1 for Power &amp; Water.
If you look at the second half dynamics as just said we've got a lot of volume and we expect Power &amp; Water volume to be higher in the fourth quarter than third quarter.
Renewables will continue to improve.
Distributed power and services continue to improve and costs are going to continue to go lower.
So our current outlook is to deliver the total year framework that Jeff covered on Power and Water and EPG.
On the right side is Oil and Gas.
Results in the second quarter were very strong.
Orders of $5 billion were up 24%.
Equipment orders of $2.8 billion were up 42%.
We saw double-digit growth across all the segments with turbo machinery up 74% driven by U.S.
midstream LNG orders.
Subsea was up 30% driven by large projects in Indonesia and Angola.
Service orders at $2.3 billion were up 8%.
We saw a nice growth in global services up 14% and we are making significant progress in growing our sub-sea service business which was up 44%.
This was partially offset by measurements and controls which was down 1%.
While still down this is up from the first quarter when M&amp;C was down 13% so some improvement in the market.
Our backlog grew by $1.1 billion in the quarter to $18 billion and our orders pricing was up 80 basis points our ninth quarter of positive order price increases.
Revenue of $4 billion was up 9% equipment revenue of $2 billion was up 11% driven by growth in subsea and drilling and surface.
And service revenues of $2 billion were up 6% driven by stronger global spare parts sales.
Segment profit of $532 million was up 14% as the benefits of higher volume positive price and SG&amp;A reductions more than offset higher program spending and drove 70 basis points of margin expansion.
Our next is aviation.
The aviation team had a strong quarter.
Orders of $5.8 billion were up 4% with equipment orders of $3.2 billion up 7%.
Commercial engine orders of $2.5 billion were up 81% driven by $1.4 billion of CFM orders including $670 million of LEAP orders.
Military equipment orders of $300 million were down 72% driven by no repeat of the Saudi F-110 order last year which was $890 million.
Service orders of $2.6 billion were up 1% commercial service orders of $2 billion were up 11%.
The 2Q average daily spares order rate was $24.6 million up 19% as we continue to see a nice rebound from the higher year-to-date GE fleet utilization thats up 2.6% globally and as airlines' shop visits and parts restocking return to more normal buying behaviors.
Military service orders were down 25% as we are seeing some impact from reduced flight hours and inventory management.
Overall for aviation order pricing was up 2.5%.
Revenue of $5.3 billion was up 9% driven by equipment up 12%.
We shipped 596 commercial engines in the quarter which was up 30 units or 5%.
We shipped 33 GEnx units up from 27 last year and we shipped 280 military engines which were 21 units or 8%.
Service revenues of $2.6 million were up 6% driven by commercial services up 12% partially offset by military services which was down 6% on lower spare parts.
Segment profit of $1 067 million was up 16% driven by the strong value gap.
Pricing up 3.6% and also by higher volume and margin rates grew by 1.1 points in the quarter.
On the right side is healthcare.
Orders of $4.8 billion were up 2% equipment orders of $2.8 billion were up 4% and that's seven points better than we saw in the first quarter.
Developed markets were up 3% with the U.S.
up 5% Europe was up 7% Japan was down 26% but it's down 8% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Developing markets were up 8% driven by China up 16% Latin America up 4% India up 1%.
If you go by modality MR was up 14% CT was down 6% ultrasound was up 13% life sciences was down 1% and diagnostic guidance systems was down 5%.
Service orders of $2 billion were down 2%.
Revenue of $4.5 billion was flat and again that's driven by the growth markets up 10% offset by the developed markets down 4%.
Segment profit of $726 million was up 5% as the benefits of restructuring and higher volume more than offset the impact of lower pricing and margin rates were up 80 basis points in the quarter.
Next is transportation.
Orders of $1.1 billion were down 23% equipment orders of $441 million were down 45%.
So we continue to see the impact of soft North American locomotive and global mining equipment markets.
Service orders of $633 million were up 7% driven by locomotive services.
Orders pricing was up 40 basis points and revenues of $1.6 billion were up 2% as the growth in signaling and parts more than offset lower equipment revenues which were down 14%.
We shipped 170 locomotives in the quarter versus 243 last year.
Segment profit of $313 million was up 11% driven by the positive value gap in services growth which also drove margins up 160 basis points.
Energy management had a strong quarter versus last year.
Orders of $2.3 billion were up 19% driven by digital energy up 24% and power conversion up 20%.
We saw a strong growth in digital meters and in the marine segment in Brazil and China.
Revenues of $2 billion were up 6% driven by power conversion up 7% partially offset by lower revenues in digital energy.
Segment profit of $31 million was up from $4 million last year driven by the improved value gap and segment margins were up 140 basis points.
Home and business solutions had another positive quarter.
Revenues of $2.1 billion were up 5% as 8% growth in appliances was partially offset by a 4% decline in lighting sales and segment profit of $83 million was up 5%.
Appliances was up 31% driven by positive pricing and lower program spending partially offset by the results in lighting.
Margins were flat for the quarter and we continue to see strength in the housing.
Second quarter housing starts were up 18% boosted by single family up strong double-digits and multi-family starts of over 20%.
So with that let me turn it over to Jeff Bornstein to cover GE Capital.
Thanks Keith.
GE Capital revenue was just under 11 billion in the quarter down 3% driven by lower assets partly offset by high gains.
Assets were down 7% or $37 billion year-over-year.
Net income was $1.9 billion down 9% from prior year primarily driven by lower assets and higher gains were offset by losses margin impairments in the quarter.
Tax benefits were essentially flat year-over-year with a rate down driven by lower pre- tax income on lower assets.
We ended the quarter at $391 billion of ending net investment.
That's down $40 billion from last year and down $11 billion sequentially.
Our net interest margin was up 18 basis points versus 2012 to 5% and flat with the first quarter.
Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel I basis improved to 11.2% in the quarter driven by the reduction in investment in the balance sheet and after paying $1.9 billion in dividends in the quarter.
On the right side of page asset quality trends continue in the right direction with delinquency rates improving across the portfolio.
The only exception being the seasonality we expect in our UK mortgage business.
In addition non-earning assets totaled $6.6 billion.
That's down $600 million from the first quarter and down $1.6 billion versus last year.
CT ended the quarter with $36 billion well on its way to the $35 billion plan for the year.
And liquidity was very strong ending the quarter at $70 billion.
Now I'll walk you through the segment performances.
CLL Commercial Lending and Leasing businesses ended the second quarter with $174 billion of assets.
That's down 6% from last year driven by a reduction of non-core assets of about $7 billion and $4 billion of lower core assets primarily driven by asset sales including the fleet Canada disposition Keith referred to.
On-book core volume was 6% higher than the second quarter of 2012.
And new business returns remain attractive at about 2% returns on investment.
Earnings were strong across all the regions and up 31% total driven by the fleet disposition asset sales higher tax benefits in Europe partially offset by asset impairments.
Asset quality continued improving with delinquencies down 50 basis points versus last year and non-earning assets were down 30% versus the second quarter of 2012.
In the consumer segment we ended the quarter with $136 billion of assets up 1%.
Net income of $828 million was down 9% primarily driven by the removal of reserve seasonality in our U.S retail business under the new modeling approach that we completed in the first quarter.
We expect reserve coverage in the U.S.
retail business to be above the same in the third quarter.
The U.S.
retail business earned $563 million in the second quarter down $78 million from last year driven by the reserving change I just mentioned and partly offset with core growth.
Asset growth in this business was strong at 9% and asset quality continues to set new benchmarks with 30 day delinquency down to 3.85%.
Our core Europe business earned $149 million in the quarter which was essentially flat year-over-year.
The real estate team continues to execute very well.
Assets ended the quarter of $42 billion.
That's down 28% year-over-year.
Net income of $435 million was up two times versus 2012.
And that was driven by higher gains on the equity portfolio on higher tax benefits.
The business sold 180 properties with a book value of $1.9 billion for about $200 million in gains in the quarter.
Asset quality continues to improve with 30 day delinquencies on the debt book at 2.1% and that's 6 basis points lower sequentially.
The verticals GECAS earned $304 million.
That's down 1% with assets down 3% driven by lower gains on aircrafts sales and modestly higher impairments on aircraft held for sale.
Returns remained very attractive on new volume.
EFS earnings were down driven by the impairment of a single-asset in our energy book and modestly lower gains across the portfolio.
For our total results we did have roughly $300 million of tax provisions in the GE Capital Corporate that partially offset the tax benefits in the segments to book to a total year expected rate of mid-single-digits.
This along with a non-repeat of $200 million of tax benefits from BP Business Properties transactions in the second quarter 2012 explains the higher corporate charge year-over-year.
So overall GE Capital continues to perform well.
Its results were in line with our strategy to reduce the size of the business.
And as you look forward to the third quarter with the loss of earnings we're shrinking assets and adjusting for one-time items the normalized run rate for GE Capital was still in the range of about 1.8 to 1.85 in earnings.
So with that I'll turn it back to Jeff.
Great Jeff thanks.
As for the framework we have really no change to the 2013 operating framework.
We're not planning for an improved environment for the balance of 2013 but execution levers are in our control a solid backlog good technology strong cost control and disciplined capital allocation.
In addition we have a very diverse global footprint which is well positioned for the macro tailwinds that are out there like in oil and gas.
So again as I said no change for 2013 operating framework.
We still plan on solid investment earnings growth for the year driven by expanding margins.
Our second quarter profile supports this growth.
GE Capital will have solid growth for the year and we have no change in our framework for corporate costs for cash.
We still plan on double-digit EPS growth for the year.
So everything is consistent with what we said at EPG and we are well positioned to deliver for investors.
And in conclusion let me recap our status versus investor goals we set for the year.
First our industrial earnings growth will improve during the year.
Power &amp; Water was a drag in the first half but should have positive earnings growth in the second half.
The other segments are executing.
So we should see strong growth for total industrial in the second half.
We plan to achieve 70 basis points of margin improvement for the year.
The second quarter exceeded our expectations and the teams did solid job on execution.
We expect to receive up to $6.5 billion dividend from GE Capital this year.
Organic growth will likely be at the low end of our 2% to 6% range for 2013.
Again the wind turbine cycle is a headwind but we're well positioned for the future with a solid backlog and the balance of our industrial businesses should grow in line with our 5% to 10% organic growth goal.
We're on track to return $18 billion to shareholders through dividends and buyback.
So for GE this is a solid quarter and we're on track for a good year.
Now I will turn it back to you and we will take some questions.
Great thanks Jeff Keith and Jeff.
So why don't we open up the lines and take some questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Scott Davis representing Barclays.
Please proceed.
Jeff when you think about last quarter and the disappointing margins you put up your confidence in the 70 basis points for the year seemed to be somewhat wavering and maybe it seems like your each call.
I mean putting up the 50 basis points this quarter does that indicate to you an increased confidence that you're going to see this back half of the year margin ramp particularly given what you saw on value gap? You know Scott it really does.
Again I think the teams have been executing well.
I would decompose a little bit the way we talk about margins.
The value gap is on track to be significantly positive this year.
Our SG&amp;A our simplification efforts I think are just gaining momentum.
So that looks good.
R&amp;D I think levelizes for the year mix levelizes for the year.
And the power &amp; water units are in backlog.
So Scott I think as we execute that ramp we feel pretty confident in the 70 basis points for the year.
We still have a slight hedge in the numbers and I just think we're building momentum.
Make sense.
And if I -- I know it's hard when you look at backlog and orders just given the timing to figure out exactly when the revenues are going to pull through but when you really look at the order growth and the fact that you're getting I mean you are down including wind but excluding wind up 5% you said.
But you say it in the slides not counting on environment improving but the order book does imply that the back half of the year is going to have some unit volume tailwind.
Am I reading that correctly? Oh yeah.
It definitely does.
Just given the way the wind -- Scott like you know just looking at the wind profile if you look at power &amp; water it's going to strengthen in the second half.
And the other businesses I'd say are already demonstrating some nice momentum.
So things like aviation spares which were a drag last year have turned into a tailwind this year.
Oil &amp; Gas I'd say four or five segments double-digit orders growth even M&amp;C Id say better quarter.
So if you just take through one-by-one you're going to get some gathering momentum I think in the second half of the year.
And just a clarification the loss in Brazil I assume that's the EBX Eike Batista investment? Yeah that's right.
Your next question comes from the line of John Inch representing Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
I have a couple of clarifications.
So just want to confirm were there any gains that you would consider one time within the industrial segments that might have helped to the 50 basis points of margins this quarter? We had a small disposition in aviation but it was immaterial John.
In total across the industrial segments the impact of gains was zero.
And then the rise Keith or Jeff in the year-over-year corporate you did call out the asset impairment of $0.01 but was there any industrial reclassification in the way you look at the businesses that might have again -- sorry to be nitpicky but may have helped the margins and then in turn that flowed through the corporate line? Or why was the corporate up as much as it was? There was no reclassification but I can take you through corporate.
If you look at the corporate second quarter number it's a $1.883 billion.
Remember youve got to take out the non-operating pension which on a pre- tax basis is 661.
So we're the $1.2 billion in the quarter.
There is really three things.
We have $280 million of pre- tax restructuring in corporate which is the $0.02.
And again that for the year will be against the NBCU gain.
We have the impairment of $108 million in the corporate line.
And then the third thing not really related to corporate but it just flows in that line is that GE Capital preferred dividend of $135 million.
So if you take the second quarter and you get to a run rate youre basically at the run rate we need to be about $3 billion for the year.
That makes sense.
Keith can I ask you about WMC in Japan? Were still taking charges for it.
And just remind us if I'm not mistaken wasn't there a statute of limitations in New York that prospectively makes the run rate on WMC hopefully or you tell me much lower going forward? And then maybe this is for Jeff is there not an opportunity to pay off these Japan liabilities sometime early next year? Im just wondering what -- I realize its still early but Jeff what your thoughts are toward perhaps pursuing that kind of attack? I think I can start with both of those for you John.
On WMC yes the statute limitations runs six years from the date of the securitization and we basically have completed all the securitizations that came out of WMC of going through that six year period now.
And I think that's why you see a slowing of the additional pending claims.
And so we need to resolve these.
We're in negotiation and discussion on the claims and we're going to work away through as you go through the second half of the year and we'll continue to update you.
From a Japan perspective there is a contractual discussion point in the first quarter with Shinsei.
And we will have a discussion with them and whether we can reach agreement or not remains to be seen but there is an opening there in the first quarter that we'll be pursuing and negotiating with them.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague representing Vertical Research Partners.
Please proceed.
Just first just back on the question of gains it netted out year-over-year in the quarter but can you just put a finer point on what it actually was TransDigm and what other stuff you might have had? The Aviation TransDigm benefit was immaterial in the segment.
And I didn't say it netted out year-over-year.
I said it was zero in the quarter in the segments.
I thought you said net neutral year-over-year.
No no.
In the quarter the small benefit we got in TransDigm in Aviation if you go to the segment profit level it was zero across the segment profits for the industrial businesses.
And just shifting to power so power price looked decent in the quarter.
I just wonder if you could give us a little color around service price versus order price and what's driving that? Sure.
Power &amp; water if you look the equipment pricing was up 3.5% in the quarter.
Service pricing was down three-tenths and overall up 1.6%.
Thermal and PGS was down 2.2% renewables was very strong up 11%.
Those will be the biggest drivers.
And then just a little more color if you could on just what's going on in service.
Europe obviously weak it sounds like you got little less there maybe.
How do you see that plan over the balance of the year? Yeah I think one bright spot in service is certainly in the U.S.
If you look at the U.S.
PGS the orders were up 29%.
In the first quarter we talked about some advanced gas path upgrades the team did a pretty good job executing in the quarter.
They had about 12 of them in the quarter and that's a good sign for us.
In the U.S.
service business revenues were up 20%.
In Europe the PGS had a really challenging quarter down 59% Jeff.
The fleet operating hours we had reduced outages it's UK Italy and Spain.
So we're seeing some positive benefits of fleet in the U.S.
and we're more than offsetting the drag that we have from the fleet in Europe right now in the PGS business.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Winoker representing Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed.
First a quick clarification again on that corporate versus segment impact restructuring and other charges that was $0.03.
Was any of that in corporate or is it all in the segments? No.
If we go to the corporate line you adjust for the non-operating pension.
Out of the $1.2 billion there is $280 million of restructuring on a pre- tax basis that's industrial.
There is another penny that's in capital and corporate.
So out of the $0.03 $0.02 is in industrial and $0.01 is in Capital.
But that 281 is counted in the -- is part of that 183 right? Yes it is.
Okay.
So that was in corporate okay.
Right.
And so was the NBCU gain in the first quarter and we said the restructuring will be in corporate through the year.
Just to be [clear] because I want to make sure it really gets all right.
On the NBCU gain...
Sure.
So in the first quarter we had the NBCU gain.
We made a set of decisions to lower our cost structure in the company.
From an accounting perspective you have to actually complete all the actions to book the accounting charge to reflect the downsizing that you're doing.
And so not all that could happen in the first quarter.
We have additional work to do to identify and complete the projects.
So we had $0.04 of restructuring in the first quarter against the NBCU gain and that left a net of positive $0.04 in that first quarter EPS.
In the second quarter we had a [negative] $0.02 after tax of industrial restructuring.
And in the third quarter and the fourth quarter will probably have another penny at least each quarter.
So that for the year Steve basically it's a zero it's in the corporate line.
And the first quarter was a net positive and the second quarter is a net drag and the third and fourth quarter will be a slight net drag.
Okay great.
Does that help? Yeah it does a lot thanks.
And then on the -- a little more clarification on the GE Capital side guys since we have a lot of GE Capital horsepower there now.
Just the CRE...
(Inaudible) also before I think.
No no no it's always good right.
The commercial real estate gains the $200 million you talked about we continue to see an environment where you're getting these every quarter.
I mean as you run down that book what's your visibility to that going forward and how long and sustainable it is? Yeah so we did have 200 in the quarter and the team has done a pretty good job as we have reduced that book down to about $17 billion of our investment doing that as profitably as possible.
It is going to get progressively more difficult to generate the same level of gains unless we continue to see improvement in the markets where we're selling these assets.
So we've been very focused in the U.S.
that's where the recovery has been the biggest the fastest.
We're seeing some signs of life in Europe in Northern Europe and UK and France.
But it's still a long way to go there and Japan is a little bit better.
So I think there still will be the opportunity to generate gains.
Whether we will be able to generate as we move down the next $17 billion at the same rate I think remains to be seen.
I think thats going to be a little bit of a challenge.
Okay.
And then on the provisions side they were at least a little lower than I was expecting.
Can you maybe just comment on how you're thinking about the amount of provisions in the quarter? I think provisions came in above where we thought they would be.
They were up about $300 million year-over-year.
$200 million of that was associated with our retail business in the U.S.
And we went through that reserve model change that we completed in the first quarter.
One of the outcome of that is we removed the seasonality that we historically have had in the second quarter.
And so that didn't repeat year-over-year.
And then we added $100 million of reserves in CLL principally in our U.S.
CLL business.
So I think provisions came in just about where we expected them.
They were down sequentially because we made that final change in the retail reserves in the first quarter which was like $600 million.
So that's why they sequentially look lower.
And maybe to sneak one last in for Jeff.
Energy management and intelligent platform does that continue to be a targeted growth area both acquisitively and organically? It is organically I would say Steve.
There has been commentary about transactions and even though we don't like to specifically talk about companies I would say when you guys think about what we've outlined in terms of the priorities for the company the one transaction that's been rumored really doesn't fit our stream as to the kinds of places we're going to put capital.
So is that the good way to answer your question Steve? Couldnt be more direct.
Thanks Jeff.
I'll pass it on.
The next question comes from the line of the Deane Dray representing Citi Research.
Please proceed.
Best wishes to Keith and to Jeff Bornstein in their new responsibilities.
Jeff Bornstein since youre on the hot seat now how about just some color -- I know it was forgone conclusion that GE Capital would be declared a SIFI but just as there -- are there any consequences regarding capital requirements reporting and so forth? Yeah I don't -- we have been in preparation for this day for the better part of two or three years.
We've had the Fed with us for the last two years.
We have been running in parallel all of the processes you see in the major banks running whether that's stress testing preparing ourselves with a recovery plan and working early innings on a resolution plan.
So I don't think incrementally it is anything that we won't be able to deal with.
I think our capital is in very very good shape.
I think our processes are improving every day.
So I don't think that the margin that the designation is going to mean all that much to the business.
And then for Jeff Immelt at EPG there was a lot of focus about prospects for a staged exit of the business and how the proceeds would be used for buybacks and changing of GE's earnings mix.
Can you give us any update as to where that process stands? Yeah Id say notionally Deane were still on track for what I talked about at EPG.
Again I don't think we're quite ready to talk detailed specifics.
But you'll be hearing from us in due time but the notion the strategy that we outlined at EPG is still on track.
Your next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe representing Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed First of all Jeff and Keith congratulations on your new roles.
Just wanted to go to back to the price cost benefit this quarter the value gap of 293.
How does that compare to the plan? And given that pricing and orders are improving the backlog price is improving raw material environment remains to be benign.
How does that develop over the balance of the year? You've seen our pricing and orders quarter-after-quarter six quarters of positive OPI across the company.
That's coming through in revenue.
This quarter we had 1% positive price in sales.
I think that continues.
I think we've put it into the backlog and with the OPI strong on the new orders coming in I think you're going to continue to see pricing.
I think the change that we've seen year-over-year has been a big improvement in deflation.
Last year at the half we had close to $60 million of inflation and this year we've got significant deflation.
So I think we expect that to continue.
We do a lot to lock in our purchases on a forward buy basis.
So we're feeling pretty good about the value gap Jeff talked about it.
I think that's going to be as we show on the margins chart a significant contributor to us getting to the 70 basis points this year.
And as you listen as we go business-by-business we talked about the value gap and just about every one of the segments been a positive contributor.
So the teams have been focused on pricing.
They're focused on delivering projects at the margins we quote or better and the sourcing deflation has been positive for us this year.
It's going to be -- this is going to be better than our plan and I think that's where the source of our hedge is going to come from.
Okays.
So you think there is a point or more of margin benefit in the back half of the year from price inflation.
And then obviously the power and water margins were pretty incredible given the sharp decline in revenues and you call that the price value gap obviously and then mix.
And I'm wondering to the extent to which you benefited from some of these power upgrades on the gas turbines versus what you might characterize as regular MRO work on the [install].
Well it was a positive for us.
I mean if you look at the service business it was actually up slightly on our profit.
So the net benefit of everything they did whether it's the part sales or the upgrades and outages in the quarter gave them a little lift.
And so I think it's a positive we're up on our profit even with the revenue been down a little bit.
So services versus equipment was a benefit certainly in the energy segment.
And then a quick one on the GE Capital dividends.
$1.9 billion in the quarter $6.5 billion for the full year.
How do you expect that to phase over the balance of the year? Yeah we have got that (inaudible) even there over the third quarter and fourth quarter.
So $1.5 billion in third and $1.5 billion in the fourth is the assumption today.
Great thanks a lot.
Thats for the specials.
(Inaudible).
Yeah.
And then 30% of (inaudible).
Your next question comes from the line of Shannon O'Callaghan representing Nomura.
Please proceed.
I just want to update on sort of gas turbine order expectations for the year.
I think you've been talking about 120 130 we're only at 32 here in the first half.
Is that still the target and if it is what are the things sort of where do those orders come from? Shannon my hunch is that the overall market is not going to be quite as strong as we had initially expected.
So my hunch is that the order for the year will be between something like 100 and 115 in that range.
And again so they come in buckets.
I'd say there is still a fair amount of activity in the Middle East China and Asia aren't bad.
We expect U.S.
to be better this year than last year but at a small level.
Europe pretty sluggish Africa okay.
But they tend to come in buckets.
But my hunch is that's where the orders will come in.
You mean you have pretty good visibility into those are there some lumpy things kind of in the ways to get there? Yeah we do.
I think we have a pretty formal process we go through on booking orders and stuff like that.
So we kind of see what I would say is pretty good visibility there.
And then just on these in the U.S.
on the advanced gas path upgrades I know you had talked about I think they got pushed out of 1Q and you're expecting them in 2Q.
Was all of that kind of recognized in 2Q or is there more of this to come in the second half how do those work? There's still more to come in the second half and again it's always between when we book the order and the revenue but I think that we've got something like [50] Keith for the year? We have a goal of 50 for the year.
We did 2 in the first quarter 12 in the second and we've got 8 in the backlog and we've got a number that are working.
So I think there is a lot of progress.
What we talked about in the second quarter we had three of them that we were working slipped in two of those actually booked in the second quarter in addition to another ten.
So I think the team has made a lot of progress there.
And their position probably for the first quarter of '14 outages as you look at where they go so it will be in the second half later in the second half of the year we think Shannon.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell representing Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
I just had a question around the simplification on the cost cutting.
You had sort of $474 million of cost cutting savings in Q2.
It looks like there wasn't much back in Q1 at all.
Back in Q1 you talked about the majority of the cost savings coming in the second half.
So I just want to square where -- youve got $500 million of savings already in the first half.
You talked before about $1 billion or so.
Is that $1 billion number for the year a lot higher now? Because I guess you should -- again for the Q1 you should be getting most of the cost saving benefit in the second half? We had actually $200 million in the first quarter Julian.
So that's how you get to 468 or whatever at the half.
We're targeting at least $1 billion and we have an intense focus in this company around simplification.
There is a regular rhythm.
Everybody's engaged.
Were reducing P&amp;L's.
Were putting things in centers of excellence.
And we're going to look at more restructuring projects as we go into the second half year here.
If we have good returning projects were going to continue to evaluate those.
Good momentum.
Id be disappointed if it wasn't above $1 billion and weve got a good backlog of projects.
And then within the services overall just total company the orders were much better in Q2 than Q1.
You talked about revenues being obviously at the bottom end of the 2 to 6 range.
Is that solely on equipment? How is your view on the services revenue outlook for the year changed particularly given the big improvement in orders sequentially? The goal for services is still around 5% for the year and that's the focus we have on it.
So I think the mix is still mainly equipment driven on the total revenue.
And then lastly just any color you could provide on Europe.
You had mentioned right at the beginning that it felt like a better quarter.
Obviously power is still bad just what you're seeing generally from your customers there? We had obviously a big improvement in Europe in the orders.
Remember the first quarter is down 17.
The second quarter were up 2.
And it was mixed.
We talk about power being tough but the positives for oil and gas was very strong.
Oil and gas orders were up 37% in the quarter.
A lot of those were up in the Nordic.
We have a great position in oil and gas in the North Sea.
Aviation was up 26%.
It was a mix of both equipment orders as well as service orders.
We've seen a rebound of services in the Europe poll.
Services were up about 15% for aviation.
And healthcare had a nice turnaround.
The Power &amp; Water was down but some encouraging signs in some of the other industrial businesses here overall 2 versus 17 is a significant improvement obviously for us.
Yes just another nuance on Keiths.
Id say the most short cycle business we have in Europe is healthcare.
And they had the first positive orders I'd say in a couple of years probably in three years.
So that's a decent but I'd echo what Keith said earlier on the Power gen usage side it's still pretty weak in Europe.
But it just seems to have net-net and the GE world anyhow stabilized in Q2.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Obin representing Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Just a question on rising interest rates impact to GECC.
How should we think about the second half given the funding mechanism and when do you think well see impact if any? Andrew Id say first of all weve issued about $28 billion debt year-to-date in addition to $1 billion preferred we talked about.
So $29 billion total against the total year plan of $30 billion to $35 billion.
So most of our borrowing in the year is done.
Fortunately we're able to get out a little ahead of what's happened to benchmark rates in the last couple of months.
Long-term generally higher interest rates have historically been good for GE Capital as well as most banks.
Margins tend to expand spreads and to expand vis--vis benchmark rate.
So I would say generally I think on a longer term trend basis higher rates are better for the business.
I think from a liability perspective we're in great shape.
We run a match funded book.
So our short term change in interest rates really shouldn't impact us much because our variable assets are matched with variable debt and our fixed assets with fixed debt.
So we should be in pretty good shape.
And just a question on healthcare just surprised how strong equipment orders were in North America in the quarter.
And at the same point CMS released 2014 proposed Medicare hospital outpatient payment regulations and those seem pretty bleak.
How should we think about a the positive surprise in healthcare this quarter how sustainable it is and where do you think the business is going given where the regulations are going.
I'd say look I think our product line is pretty good right now and our positioning is pretty good.
We're not counting on the U.S.
market in healthcare to be super robust.
And look I think on the outpatient side there has been pressure on reimbursements for a long time.
So we're pretty cognizant of where it goes there.
But I would say the U.S.
market feels like it's growing flattish to maybe up a couple of points and I don't see that changing that much.
So this quarter for you it's market share gain you think? You never know until you see the NEMA data but it seems like a better run rate for us this quarter and then we'll see when we get the market data.
It's usually a lag of a couple of weeks.
But I think -- and then outside U.S.
the growth markets were up 10% and that's a decent profile for the healthcare guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa representing JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
The orders price in Power &amp; Water was 1.5% the industry seems like it's obviously in relatively tough shape.
Can you just walk through what drove that? Well I went through some of the pieces if you looked at it.
For equipment thermal was down 5.5 so that's more in line with what you're seeing in the softness in the thermal market.
But the renewables was up 12%.
So I think those were the two biggest pieces.
Distributed power is about flat.
What's driving that renewables dynamic? And I guess just pricing generally are you with obviously volumes down across your business maybe Jeff you can just from a macro perspective but pricing holding in there.
Is this -- you're kind of making a conscious choice to kind of walk away from some business? Does it really kind of not matter what the price is? It's more about the level of activities that's out there and that's just more of a macro question I guess.
Well in the wind business we've got tremendous new product introductions and we're delivering value to our customers.
So I think that's the biggest piece of the thermal rather renewable price index performance for us in 2013.
Steve it's really kind of product-by-product.
I see our service pricing is still pretty good and that shows up in service margins.
Your reference on the power-gen market it's a tough market.
So you're seeing pressure there.
Aviation the pricing has been really pretty good same ways locomotives behind product performance.
So it's kind of a mix business-by-business.
But I think on the input cost side we're not seeing any inflation really and so we see a favorable trade let's say in the short-term between our ability to sustain decent pricing in our market versus incoming inflation.
Okay.
And then just one last question on the Power &amp; Water services stuff.
Clearly good news that some of these upgrades and service work is coming through.
That's just kind of like the delayed reaction to the significant increase in gas utilization last year.
And if that is the case I mean is this something you have line of sight on into '14 or is this kind of a pent-up demand being released this year as they kind of switch back to coal perhaps and then you've got a little bit of tougher comp next year.
How do we think about that? My sense Steve is that the power gen service piece ought to be pretty stable between '13 and '14.
We have got a decent backlog of these advanced gas paths.
We do have some turnarounds next year that are going to be helpful.
So I view this as the ability to kind of have stable growth in the power gen service side.
It's really good economics for the customer.
Yes.
We're developing additional new product upgrades for them that give them better efficiency in operating performance and we can demonstrate those economics right.
It's not really related to just whether they run a little more from a cost of gas perspective.
It's really about over the long term what's the value of that asset for them.
How many did you do last year? This is a new product introduction.
So there have upgrades through the periods but this is a specific area.
Most significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Filman representing UBS.
Please proceed.
At healthcare you called you called out the translation impact of the Yen on the healthcare business in Japan.
More broadly have you seen any competitive implications of the move in the Yen either in healthcare energy or any of the other businesses? We really haven't -- a lot of things we do in aviation stuff like that are dollar trades anyhow but we haven't seen the Japanese companies becoming more competitive if thats what you mean.
One of the advantages we have is we also make things in Japan and have a supply chain in Japan.
So were naturally hedged as these things go on from a cost position standpoint.
Also in healthcare healthcare seems to be the segment where pricing has been the most stubborn and I certainly understand particularly in North America and Europe its been a challenging market but what do you see as needing to change before that improves? Is that something thats possible anytime in the near to medium term? It's just a historical thing.
The healthcare business is a little bit on the electronics cost curve.
Half of it is physics and half of it is electronics.
And you have a fairly rapid new product standpoint.
So healthcare grows at CM rate even when we show --- the way we look at price it shows some erosion but that's usually offset by sourcing and by margin on new products that are replacing the old ones.
So its a unique character on our portfolio.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Schauenberg do you have any additional remarks? Yes Ill just wrap quickly.
Thank you everyone for joining the call today.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We'll be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital as we always do soon today.
Our third quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be held on Friday October 18th.
As always well be available to take your questions today.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for participation today.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Shaquana and I will be your conference coordinator today.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference Trevor Schauenberg Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed sir? Thank you Shaquana.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host today's third quarter webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued the press release as well as the presentation slides at 6:30 this morning which is something new for us.
Slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt and our Senior Vice Chairman and CFO Jeff Bornstein.
Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great Trevor.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
You know what? GE had a good third quarter in an improving environment.
Our orders grew 19% with great balance.
Our growth markets were up 22% the U.S.
was up 18% and Europe up 17%.
Earnings per share was up 18% ex-unusual items industrial earnings growth 11% with six or seven segments growing all by double digits.
Capital continues to execute on our strategic objectives.
Earnings were up 13% while our financial position continued to strengthen and we had $0.04 of uncover charges in the quarter and no industrial gains.
Operations were very strong.
Our margins grew by 120 basis points behind strong value gap performance in simplification.
Our industrial cost out reached to $1 billion through the third quarter and we are significantly ahead of our plan and CFOA is up 5% operationally.
This includes a $3.9 billion dividend from GE Capital year-to-date.
We have returned about $14 billion to investors year-to-date well on our way to our $18 billion goal.
At that the same time we continue to invest in strategic acquisitions like Avio and Lufkin so overall this was a good quarter for GE team.
Our orders were highlight for the quarter.
Overall growth was up 19% with strength in equipment and services.
Every business grew and backlog reached $229 billion equipment orders grew 32% with strength across the board and orders price was flat.
The orders profile is very encouraging.
Services was up 5% with real strength in power gen services and aviation commercial spares.
Total orders in the U.S.
and Europe were both robust and seven growth regions had double-digit orders growth.
These include Australia Canada Middle East North Africa and Turkey up 17%.
Africa up 18% Russia up 51% China up 18% and ASEAN up 100%.
Power &amp; Water had a solid orders performance with growth 19% and though this number did not include any orders from Algeria.
Those will be booked into fourth quarter in 2014.
Orders growth in backlog supports business expansion fourth quarter through 2014.
While we are making progress on our strategic growth initiatives growth market revenues were up 13% with six of nine regions up double digits.
This remains a key strength for the company due to our geographic diversity and strong share position.
Services grew by 7% with margins up 60 basis points and aviation spares shipments grew by 25%.
Last week we had our second Minds and Machines summit where we announced 40 new service offerings in analytics and software.
Our industrial Internet order should exceed $500 million for the year and we continue to drive our technical advantage.
We announced 8-gigawatt heavy duty gas turbine wind in Algeria.
We will launched 50 healthcare NPIs for the year and we are gaining share.
The LEAP engine is ahead of schedule and the GE9x recorded its first order and is well positioned for the Boeing 777 launch.
We have the only locomotive to meet the Tier-4 standard and we continue to launch new appliance products with strong acceptance in retail and contract channels.
With a strong backlog and good growth initiatives I think we are well positioned for solid organic growth in the fourth quarter in 2014.
On margins look we are encouraged about our progress.
GE's margins grew by 120 basis points in the quarter and were up 40 basis points year-to-date.
Five of seven businesses grew margins in the quarter and all are flat or up for the year excluding the impact of acquisitions.
Our results are [problematic] and sustainable.
Our value gap is positive $660 million year-to-date and will continue to grow.
We have achieved our $1 billion simplification goal in only three quarters and will drive substantial upside for the year and there will be no industrial gains in this quarter.
Our Power &amp; Water had a solid quarter with improved mix strong value gap and good simplification efforts and they should sustain this momentum into the fourth quarter.
So on track to achieve our 70 basis points goal.
Our results and service margins value gap and simplification are accelerating and all businesses should have positive margin growth in fourth quarter and we still have a slight hedge in out plan.
On cash we had a solid quarter.
For cash our industrial CFOA has grown by 5% year-to-date ex the NBCU deal related taxes which show in CFOA.
We are still targeting to receive up to $6.5 billion of GE Capital dividends paid to the parent.
We remain on track to achieve our $14 billion to $17 billion CFOA goal for the year.
We have significantly higher revenues in fourth quarter than third quarter driving higher CFOA by year-end and our balance sheet remains extremely strong with $87 billion of consolidated cash.
Our capital allocation remains disciplined and balanced.
Year-to-date we have $13.9 billion to investors in dividends and buyback.
We have invested $8.6 billion in acquisitions that will improve our long-term growth rate.
We are on track to return $18 billion to investors in 2013.
Now over to Jeff to review operations.
Thanks Jeff.
I will start with third quarter total results.
Revenue from containing operations of $35.7 billion was down 1% from last year.
Industrial sales of $25.3 billion were up 2% driven principally by oil and gas and aviation partly offset by Power &amp; Water as you can see on the right side of the page.
GE Capital revenues were down 5% to $10.7 billion on much lower investment.
Operating earnings of $3.7 billion were down 3% and operating earnings per share was flat at $0.36.
That includes $0.02 for the Avio acquisition charges and $0.02 of restructuring in the quarter.
We also no longer have earnings from the NBCU JV which was $0.02 in the third quarter 2012.
I will cover these items on the next page.
Continuing EPS of $0.32 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes discontinued operations which I will also cover on the next page.
Adjusted CFOA year-to-date was $7.8 billion with solid industrial performance and $2 billion GE Capital dividends were paid in the quarter.
The GE tax rate in the quarter was 20% and the GE Capital tax rate was zero.
GE Capital continued the benefits associated with loss recapture in real-estate and tax efficient asset reductions.
In the second quarter we said that we expect the GE capital tax rate to be in the mid single-digits for the year but that could be lower depending upon higher IRS solutions that could happen in the fourth quarter as well as expected dispositions in the fourth quarter which could impact tax rates.
On the right side of the page segment results were positive.
Industrial segment profit was up 11% with six of seven industrial segments improving.
GE Capital also had a positive quarter growing earnings 13% versus 2012.
I will cover all the segments in more details on the following pages.
So for one time items in total we had $0.04 of charges in the quarter $0.02 related to Avio as we discussed in September.
Avio had a number of preexisting contractual arrangements with GE Aviation and U.S.
GAAP requires us to record the fair value impact of effectively settling those preexisting contracts.
We also had an inventory fair value adjustment in the quarter.
These resulted in $0.02 charge.
Going forward we will benefit from the efficiencies that Avio has achieved over time.
We also had $0.02 of restructuring and other charges as we continue to take actions to reduce our cost structure.
This was $0.01 higher than we had originally planned for the third quarter as we continued to identify track the projects that will lower structural cost and rationalize our footprint.
On the right side of the page we included a walk from reported to adjusted operating results.
In the third quarter of 2012 we earned $0.36 which included $0.02 of income related to NBC.
In the third quarter of this year we earned $0.36 that as discussed that included $0.02 of the Avio related charges and $0.02 of restructuring.
If you adjust for those items operating EPS is $0.40 in third quarter of '13 versus $0.34 in third quarter of '12 up 18%.
For discontinued operations we had an $82 million after tax impact in the quarter driven by GE Money Japan.
We booked $79 million of additional reserves to reflect ongoing claims related to gray zone.
We ended the quarter with $527 million in total reserves.
There were really no material change in WMC in the quarter with a very slight reserve adjustment.
On the bottom of the page is a summary of our operating EPS and the industrial NBC gains and restructuring with $0.02 of restructuring charges in the third quarter that brings our year-to-date to a net zero impact between the first quarter gains and year-to-date restructuring.
With that I begin covering our business results and we will start with Power &amp; Water.
Orders of $5.9 billion were up 19% European orders were up 9% led by renewables and water.
However PGS was down 18%.
Equipment orders were 37% higher at 3 billion.
Thermal orders were 886 million down 15%.
The business had orders for 27 heavy duty gas turbines in the quarter versus 29 a year ago.
Renewable orders were strong up over a 100% to $1.2 billion with continuing strength in the U.S.
Distributed power was also strong with orders of $700 million up 62% driven by aero demand.
Service orders were up 4% to $2.9 billion up 7% excluding Europe.
Despite continuing European softness PGS orders were up 8% to $1.8 billion and we booked 15 advanced gas path upgrades versus four year ago.
Overall orders pricing was down 80 basis points driven by equipment down 2.9% partially offset by services up 1.4%.
[Thermal] was down 1.4% and wind was down 1.2%.
Revenue of $6.5 billion was down 10% driven by lower volume.
Equipment revenue was down 13% on lower gas and wind volume.
We shipped 22 gas turbines versus 35 in the third quarter of 2012 and we shipped 407 fewer wind turbines down 40%.
This was partially offset by distributed power strength up 44% with 76 unit deliveries versus 48 a year ago.
Service revenue of $2.8 billion was down 5% driven by PGS down 6%.
Higher AGP volume was offset by lower new unit spares.
Segment profit of a $1 289 billion was up 9% in the quarter.
The improvement was driven by positive value gap and distributed power strength and better cost performance.
SG&amp;A was down 10% in the quarter and margins improved 330 basis points.
Oil and gas orders were $4.4 billion up 4%.
Equipment orders were $2.3 billion up 3%.
We saw a strong turbomachinery orders growth of 17% led by a large midstream LNG order in Russia.
The Lufkin orders of $243 million partially offset by subsea down 41%.
Subsea orders tend to be very lumpy and are up 17% over the last 12 months.
Service orders grew 6% in the quarter drilling and surface was up 21% subsea up 27% partially offset by measurement and control down 8%.
Total backlog was up 35% versus prior year and orders pricing was down 20 basis points with year-to-date remaining positive and up 70 basis points.
Revenue of $4.3 billion was up 18% up 9% ex-acquisitions equipment was up 19% driven by subsea up 16% the drilling and surface up 13% offset by measurement and control down 3% in the quarter.
Measurement and control was a disappointment in the quarter as we saw continued softness in the market.
Service revenues grew 18% with strength in Global Services up 13% subsea up 43% and drilling and surface up 23%.
Segment profit of $519 million was up 11%.
That's up 7% ex-acquisitions primarily driven by higher volume and a strong value gap.
Margins were down 90 basis points on a reported basis down 30 basis points excluding the impact of the Lufkin in the quarter.
This was lower than expected primarily driven by a software measurement and control market and there were some project delays.
With that we will talk about the aviation and healthcare.
First aviation.
Aviation had another really strong quarter orders of $7.8 billion were up 51% with equipment orders up 92%.
Commercial engine orders were $3.8 billion up four times led by $1.6 billion of CFM orders up nine times including $1.4 billion of LEAP orders.
GE90 orders were $1.2 billion also up four times.
Military orders continued their expected weakness down 30%.
Service orders of $2.7 billion were up 9% commercial service orders were up 15%.
The average daily order rate for commercial spares was $24 million up 9% in the quarter.
Our fleet utilization year-to-date is up 3.1% and overhauls in the quarter were up 23%.
Military service orders fell 6% and flight hours continue to and de-stocking continues across the military.
Orders pricing in the quarter was up 1.9% with improvements in both equipment and service.
Revenue of $5.4 billion was up 12% up 10% excluding Avio.
Equipment revenue was 10% higher.
We shipped 273 military engines up 12%.
We also shipped 559 commercial engines in the quarter up 8% including 26 GenEx engines.
Service revenues were 14% higher driven by strong spare part sales of $25.9 million a day which was up 25%.
Military service revenue was down 17%.
Segment profit of $1.1 billion was up 18% driven by strong volume and value gap with sales price up 3%.
Margin rates improved a 100 basis points versus last year and we are up 70 basis points excluding Avio.
Just as a note Avio helped margins and Lufkin was a hurt on margins in the quarter.
So overall acquisitions were about a 10 basis points drag in the quarter on segment margins.
Next is healthcare.
Orders in healthcare of $4.7 billion were up 2%.
Equipment orders were up 6% to $2.7 billion.
Developed markets were up 1% driven by strong U.S.
equipment orders up 8%.
Europe was flat Japan was down 24% down 6% excluding the effect of FX.
Emerging markets were up 14% driven by China who are up 33% Latin America up 28% partially offset by Asia-Pacific down 16%.
Just a little bit on modality.
HCS was up 5% MR was up 13% CT down 8% and ultrasound was very strong up 14%.
Life Sciences was up 10% diagnostic guidance up 5%.
So pretty good strength across the modalities.
Service orders of $1.9 billion were down 4%.
Revenue of $4.3 billion was flat driven by growth markets up 5% led by China who are up 13% offset by developed markets down 2%.
Both the U.S.
and Europe were up 2% offset by Japan.
Segment profit of $665 million was higher by 7% as cost productivity from our restructuring efforts more than offset lower price.
Margin rates expanded in the quarter 110 basis points.
Then moving onto transportation.
Orders of $1.6 billion were up 34%.
Equipment orders were up 65% driven by a large North American locomotive order for 275 units deliverable in 2014 and mining really continues to be soft.
Services orders were 8% higher driven by solid growth in locomotive services probably offset by very week demand for mining parts.
Revenues of $1.4 billion were flat year-over-year and strong service growth of 17% was offset by equipment revenue down 14%.
Locomotive shipments were approximately flat with the third quarter deliveries of 147 compared to 146 a year ago.
Operating profit of $306 million was up 15% with margins better by 300 basis points.
The improvement was principally driven by positive value gap in services growth.
Energy management.
Orders of $2 billion were up 16% with strengthened power conversion up 19% digital energy up 23% and intelligent platforms up 16%.
Backlog of $4.6 billion is up 29% versus prior year.
Despite the order strength operations were disappointing in the third quarter revenues were down 3% driven by digital energy down 27% on weak media demand and some project execution.
As a result our profit was down 57% to $18 million.
Positive value gap was more than offset by the negative volume leverage.
Home and business solutions had a very strong quarter driven by appliances.
Housing starts were up 19% with single family better by 16% multi-family up 27%.
Revenues of $2.1 billion were higher by 7% led by an 11% increase in appliances partly offset with 1% decrease in lighting.
Segment profit of $77 million was up 28%.
Appliances our profit up was up 73% driven by positive value gap and productivity partly offset by lighting.
Margins improved 60 basis points in the quarter.
Next I will cover GE Capital.
GE Capital revenue was $10.7 billion down 5% driven by lower assets.
Assets were down 7% or $40 billion year-over-year.
Net income of $1.9 billion was up 13% from prior year primarily driven by lower losses better portfolio performance and higher tax benefits which more than offset assets and gains.
We ended the quarter with $385 billion of ending net investments down $39 billion from last year and down $7 billion sequentially.
Our net interest margin increased 22 basis points versus third quarter of '12 to 5% and was flat in the second quarter.
Volume was up 6% in the quarter with new business ROI over 2% and our Tier 1 common on a Basel 1 basis improved to 11.3% driven by reduction in assets and that's after paying $2 billion of dividends in the quarter.
On the right side of the page asset quality trends continue to be strong with delinquency rates stable to improving across the portfolio.
In addition non-earning assets totaled $6.4 billion down $1.9 billion versus third quarter of 2012.
We have substantially completed all of our debt issuance for 2013 at $32 billion and we have reduced our CP balance at $33 billion ahead of the plans bring down CP by $35 billion by year end.
Liquidity was very strong ending the quarter at $76 billion up $7 billion from the second quarter.
Now to walk through our segment performance CLL the Commercial Lending and Leasing business ended the third quarter with a $170 billion of assets down 5% from last year driven by a reduction of non-core assets of $5 billion as well as $4 billion in our core book primarily from asset sales including the fleet Canada our franchise real estate transactions we spoke about.
On book core volume in Americas was up was 2% higher in the third quarter of 2012 and new business returns remain attractive at about 2% returns on investment despite continued excess liquidity in the market.
Earnings of $479 million were down 50% driven by lower assets and impairments in our corporate aircraft portfolio in the Americas business.
Asset quality was stable.
Consumer segment ended the quarter with $136 billion of assets flat with last year.
Net income of $889 million was up 19% primarily driven by lower losses as a result of not repeating the reserve modeling changes that we implemented last year in this quarter and in the first quarter of this year.
Lower losses were partially offset by no repeat of the $80 million gain on the partial sale of our interest in Thai bank in the third quarter of 2012.
The U.S.
Retail business earned $665 million in the third quarter up 50% from last year again largely driven by not repeating the reserving change and on strong asset growth of 11% in the quarter.
Our core European business earned a $111 million in the quarter.
The real estate team had another very solid quarter.
Assets ended the quarter at $40 billion down 28% to down $2 billion sequentially.
The equity book is down 27% from a year ago to $60 billion.
Net income of $464 million was up more than two times versus 2012 and that was driven by lower losses and marks as well as impairments as well as higher tax benefits.
The business saw 77 properties with the book value of $2.1 billion for about a $100 million of gains in the quarter.
That's down slightly year-over-year.
The business originated $1.8 billion of debt volume in the quarter with an average ROI of 2.3% and asset quality continues to improve with 30 day delinquencies at a 141 basis points 68 basis points lower sequentially.
The verticals GECAS earned $173 million.
That's down 31% driven by higher impairments as part of our annual impairment review.
Impairments were $55 million higher in 2013 at a $190 million.
The impairments were principally driven by valuations on cargo aircrafts specifically MD-11s.
Overall the portfolio is in great shape with only 10 MD-11 freighters remaining in our fleet with the value of about $150 million and we ended the quarter with zero delinquency and no aircraft on the ground.
EFS earnings were up 14% or $150 million driven by higher operating income.
Overall GE Capital continues to perform well.
It's results were in line with our strategy.
As we look ahead to the fourth quarter in terms of run rate I expect the business to earn around 2 billion plus or [minus] the third quarter and adjusting from impairments of GECAS which not repeat and some tax benefits.
We are currently working on a number of transactions in the fourth quarter most notably the sale of our remaining interest in Bay the Thai bank and the IPO of our Swiss consumer business.
At this point we expect that any benefits from these transactions will largely offset with continued portfolio repositioning but they could impact the tax rate quarter and the year.
With that let me turn it back to Jeff.
Jeff thanks.
We really have no material changes in the 2013 operating objective framework.
Our industrial earnings will expand by double-digits in the second half and we are on track for solid growth in the year.
We have no change for expectations in GE Capital.
We continue to originate business at high returns while repositioning our capital portfolio and earnings growth remain solid in GE Capital.
Our corporate cost reflects our Avio adjustment as Jeff described earlier and we continue to see good opportunity for restructuring and our positioning offers to continue.
Our cash and revenues remain on track.
We should see earnings growth accelerated in the fourth quarter with more volume and lower costs and with a large backlog in improving margins we feel good about 2014.
We have several of our communications sessions with investors in the fourth quarter.
In November Keith and Jeff will update our portfolio and business strategy of GE Capital and give you a sense for our long-term goals and simplification across the company.
And in December I will give you a strategic update for GE and our outlook for 2014.
So we look forward to those sessions.
So in summary we are making progress on our investor objectives for the year.
Our industrial earnings grew by double digits in third quarter and we expect a stronger fourth quarter.
Strength is broad based and we expect Power &amp; Water to be a key contributor going forward in the fourth quarter and into 2014.
We grew margins by 120 basis points in the quarter and we expect to hit 70 basis points for the year.
In the event we have any gains on the in the fourth quarter we expect them to be applied to restructuring.
GE Capital continues to strengthen and we are on track for up to $6.5 billion of cash to be returned to the parent.
We expect organic growth of at least 5% in the fourth quarter for the industrial segments and we have solid momentum in growth markets services and NPI and we have more favorable comparisons in Power &amp; Water.
So we are on track and we are on track to return substantial cash for investors this year.
So the team executed well in the quarter and with a strong backlog and expanding margins investors should be confidence in GE's future.
So Trevor with that let's turn it over to you and take some questions.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
I know there is other earnings call coming up.
So Shaquana let's open the phone lines.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of John Inch representing Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Hey John.
Good morning guys.
So the fact that we did $100 million more restructuring in this quarter do you anticipate more restructuring in the fourth quarter? I realize Jeff you just said if there were gains you would offset that but how does that pertain to your plan and how are you thinking about the restructuring opportunity? May be why don't I start and Jeff I will turn it you but we continue to have good opportunities for restructuring throughout the company and I would expect us to do some in the fourth quarter but again I think if we have gains we expect those to be offset with restructuring.
Okay.
I don't have a lot to add to that.
I think that's right.
I think the more we get deeper into the simplification effort we just see increasing numbers of opportunities to take cost out of the company and make the company faster and more customer centric.
So I think we will do restructuring in the fourth quarter and as Jeff said more likely than not we will reflect the gains in the we expect as well.
And Jeff one of thing you have been at this for a little of time now.
As you said are you finding more opportunity or is it still a little early in the process before you would care to comment? If there is a - I think - Passed out.
Sorry Yes.
So I would say around the simplification effort I think everyday we identify more opportunities to do what we do smarter.
More shared services a smaller manufacturing footprint rationalizing capacity executing our functions in a more consolidated way.
So I would say the list is growing with time and we are in the early innings of the simplification effort in this company.
So I am quite emboldened with what we can accomplish over the next few years.
And just I want to go back to the fourth quarter.
You guys had great results this quarter.
It still is a pretty big V though in terms that and I think the delta is really the expectation is around power shipments.
Is that really still on track or it just looks like it's a very high contributive quarter versus even historical years although you did put up the margins this quarter? Just is there anything you can say to us about the fourth quarter? I don't know progress to date or what's you are seeing or anything like that? Well I think power was obviously a big contributor in the third quarter.
We are ahead a little bit on derivatives and the fourth quarter ramp for Power &amp; Water I think we feel very good about.
When we think about units for the fourth quarter the large units gas turbines et cetera most of that is in backlog but it is 95% of it so I think we feel very good about how we feel power is moving into the fourth quarter.
We de-risk the fourth quarter little bit with the out performance here in the third quarter.
John I think you started 40 and set at that 36 so you go from 40 in March from there.
We typically get a lot more revenue in Q4 than Q3.
It's typical for us to get 300 basis points on margin Q4 versus Q3 and Power &amp; Water is very backend loaded as we have always said so you have got a bunch of stuff that really - little bit better in GE Capital I think you have got a lot of stuff that says we are kind of ready for a very strong fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Davis representing Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everybody.
I wanted to get a sense when I look at the results one of the thing that really stands out to me was the Power &amp; Water orders particularly excluding Algeria.
I mean up 37% I really wasn't aware that anybody in the world was buying a gas turbine right now or distribute power for that matter so can you give us a little granularity help us understand where geographically these orders are coming from and just a little help here.
Yes.
When you look at orders in the quarter geographically for we will start with gas turbines.
In the resource-rich regions we were 18 units in the quarter versus 22 so down four there.
Middle East we were down 10 units from 11 to 21.
A little bit better in Asia we were flat five units versus five units year-over-year.
Most of the order strength really for our Power &amp; Water has been around our aeroderivatives units.
It has been very strong and our wind units have been incredibly strong.
In the third quarter we had 477 orders in the developed markets on wind.
That's up 390 units and that explains most of the strength around wind and the balance is really Aero.
I would say Scott if you look at Q4 we expect Power &amp; Water orders to be at the high end of the range of what we talked about.
So my hunch is that the orders will be clean in the 100 and a lot of that's Middle East.
So we will book some of the Algerian orders in Q4.
We have got some big orders in Saudi some nice orders in Russia couple in Africa couple in Brazil and on the aeroderivative market we are seeing pretty good growth in places like Canada Middle East.
So you have just got to be - the GGO and the investments we have made in emerging markets I think has really helped us collect the orders.
Okay that is very helpful.
And lastly guys Jeff the big team in the year really for your communications have done simplification you have put a couple of sentences on that in the annual report last year and you were able to sell the other half of NBCU which I think helps a lot but we haven't seen a lot of other portfolio actions.
I mean what's holding you back? The Wall Street Journal reported there was chatter around spinning of the credit card business but we haven't seen any announcements there.
Is this stuff all just being embedded at present and we are likely to see some announcements in the next couple of months? Or is there - maybe you can just help us understand what's - You know all these things always take a little bit of time but we are still planning staged exits of the value maximizing platforms of GE Capital.
We have got a big meeting set November 15 with Keith and Jeff.
I think there will be more clarity at that time on the capital side.
And we continue and the rest the company continue to look at ways to make the company more streamlined and more effective.
So you are going to see those in good time.
I think we just want to be thorough in our planning and you will get a lot more detail soon.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks guys and congrats on the margin line.
Great thanks.
Thanks Scott.
Your next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe representing Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks good morning.
Hey Nigel.
Yes hi.
Just going back to Power &amp; Water I mean that was obviously the big driver obviously this quarter and congratulations on margins there but $100 million of EBIT growth year-over-year with sales down $7 million I understand price gap was a big benefit as was simplification.
But just want to confirm that with surface down 5% that's a negative mix and big volume deleverage on gas and wind I just want to confirm that 3Q was a good run rate for 4Q and beyond? Well Nigel what I would say the third quarter was slightly better than even what I had thought just by little bit but a little bit better.
We had better mix.
So when you have more aeroderivatives and less wind that's a mix adder.
Then we have got the simplification efforts which Jeff said with margins or with value gap and with SG&amp;A down 10% that really - it's a much leaner organization.
Then when you look at Q4 you are going to get kind of ball wave of more wind business aeroderivatives is still pretty strong heavy duty gas services are still pretty strong.
I think what you are going to see in Q4 is revenue growth our profit growth and margin growth.
So what you are going to see in Q4 in Power &amp; Water I think it's pretty typical of what you are going to see I think going forward in the business into '14.
Okay understood.
Obviously you broke the parts of your energy business into two and half segments Power &amp; Water energy management and oil and gas.
Are we seeing the benefit of that simplification through here or is it more restructuring actions that you are taking year-to-date? Okay.
So I would say Nigel as we took out the layer we got hundreds of million of dollars of benefits as we did that.
So I think that was just a starting point and then inside each business look we are committed to getting SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue down to a world-class best-in-class level and we are on our way.
We made good progress but we are not where we want to be yet.
So you have some of those benefits for sure show up in the businesses but we have got a ways to go yet.
Okay and just finally going back to Jeff Bornstein's comments on BAY.
If that creeps into 4Q obviously the intention is to offset that with the restructuring.
That could be a pretty meaningful gain.
So I am just wondering do you have a pipeline of opportunities already set to absorb that kind of gain and maybe any color in terms of the focused areas from here for that kind of restructuring action? Yes.
We are constantly in flight on value maximizing and the [red book] and GE Capital non-core book that we have talked about so the gain could be sizable.
We expect it will be quite profitable for us and we are working on list of items to position the portfolio for how we want to take it forward so I think the team has got a pipeline of stuff they are working.
Nigel the point I have made earlier I think on both I mean we still have to see how the Swiss IPO goes but we could have gains in both of those.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell representing Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just on the margin performance again.
I mean the overall industrial margin was up as you say 120 bps services was up 60 so that means equipment was up 160 bps 170 bps of flat revenues.
When you think about the mix going forward the mix in your recurring backlog today and what that means for revenue going forward.
Do you think that kind of equipment margin growth is sustainable because obviously you have a lot of mix hit coming into that equipment margin from wind and solar in the next sort of six months? Yes.
I think what I would say right now is that we are running ahead of the game on value gap.
We are two three quarters of the year we are almost $700 million value gap.
We expect that to continue to accelerate into the fourth quarter.
On simplification and restructuring Jeff talked about the fact that we are at the $1 billion through the third quarter.
We expect that to continue and accelerate into fourth quarter.
I think on the cost side of the equation we have got enough leverage that we are working very dramatically to deal with the fact that we are going to have more equipment shipments as we move into the fourth quarter and I think those cost opportunities are going to accelerate into 2014.
Thanks.
Then within oil and gas 18% revenue growth much more subdued profit growth and obviously the margins were down.
I guess what's behind the confidence that the margins in oil and gas year-on-year will be up in Q4 because you had a pretty good margin in Q4 last year and you are coming after off the Q3 where the margin was down year-over-year? Again I would say we did have some execution issues in the third quarter getting the backlog out getting it out into cost structure was supposed to go out.
We expect that we are going to improve on that in the fourth quarter we got a volume lift in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter we expect to with all the cost actions and the value gap we have created in the business over the first three quarters we expect to get some leverage on that in the fourth quarter.
I think we feel pretty good about the fact that we will grow margins rates in the fourth quarter in oil and gas.
They will not grow to the levels we thought they would for the year and that's really mostly above the M&amp;C business.
We came into the year thinking the business is going to grow something like 16% or low single-digits and that's a real missed challenge for us but we try to get it done with better execution in the shop the better execution on the cost structure.
Got it.
Thanks.
Lastly very quickly just U.S.
gas turbine aftermarket business gasified power gen consumption is down 9% or 10% year-to-date.
What are you thinking about your U.S.
gas services business sort of looking out from here? The orders were pretty good.
We can probably get back to you with that but I can tell you.
Do you have it Jeff? Yes.
Just give me one second.
I would tell Jeff - in that coating activity in North America is actually higher now in gas turbines than we have seen in a while so I think we are kind of optimistic at least on the unit side for '14.
I think in the U.S.
we have been pretty strong.
I think we are up 8% PGS in the U.S.
in the third quarter.
There is still some strength in U.S.
As we said Europe was top down 18% on services related to heavy duty gas turbine but sequentially that's a bit of an improvement from where we were in the first and second quarter.
I think really what's driving us here in the third and fourth quarter in North America our PGS growth is our advanced - have upgrades we did 15 in the third quarter versus four a year ago.
We expect to do more than that in the fourth quarter.
And that's very good business for us at very high margin.
So I think we see a way forward here around services.
Right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Ritchie representing Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
So I just wanted to tackle this margin question little differently.
As you look at the 4Q you have got to - in order to hit your 70 basis point target margins you have to expand by about 170 basis points and the comp is a little bit tougher.
You did about 17.3% last year.
So can you help me understand across each of the different industrial segments which segments do you think are going to be above or below that 170 number and is it going to be disproportionately skewed towards Power &amp; Water getting much better? Joe I can start and then maybe Jeff kicks in but I think we see pretty broad based expansion in Q4.
Power &amp; Water expands but it's not the biggest driver and we have got every business up a bit and a couple maybe three or four businesses up 100 basis points plus.
I don't know if Jeff if you want to.
Well let me go back to the framework we have set for people.
So we described the businesses in one of three ways.
We said the businesses we thought would grow margins for the year better than 70 basis points those that would grow 0 to 70 and those that we expect to be flat.
I think if we relook that framework today we would say oil and gas is clearly going to grow margins less than 70 basis points.
We thought they would do better than that.
And energy management I would say is on a trend today to grow margins between 0 and 70 basis points not the greater than 70 basis points we thought.
A contrast of that I think transportation is going to be much stronger than what we originally said.
We originally thought they would be flat but we think they are going to grow margins pretty substantially for the year.
Then we have the a shot here we will see how appliance strength looks in the fourth quarter but the appliance business actually may push through the 0 to 70 category or better than 70.
And aviation healthcare as well as Power &amp; Water are going to be right about where we said they would be.
So I think those are really the changes which is better than this 0 to 70 improvement.
Okay.
No that's helpful color.
And I guess a follow up to that is I know that you booked a big Algeria order and there is some short cycle.
Joe we didn't book the Algeria order in the quarter.
It's going to book.
It's going to come through orders in 4Q but it's also booking ship on the aeroderivatives.
I think there were 26 aeroderivatives that you are going to book and ship in 4Q.
My question is based on what you either already have an backlog today or what you know is going into backlog in 4Q how much more do you have to do to get to the margin targets that you set out? I think the Power &amp; Water is almost all in backlog.
Yes so what I would say is on the unit side gas turbines wind turbines more than 95% of what we will do in the fourth quarter is in backlog today.
Our services business runs 50% to 60% backlog and that's kind of where we sit today.
I think we have within that we have very good line of sight to what we are going to do on AGPs in the quarter.
So I think we are largely in pretty good shape.
We will probably do about 70 distributor power units in the quarter and one of the reasons we will shape on those as they tend to be a little bit shorter cycle.
So I think we have pretty good visibility.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Your next question come from the line of Steven Winoker representing Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Hi wind power.
Hey I have been called worse.
Is that you wind power? That will be me right.
As I said I have been called worse and not only by you guys.
Never better than us.
So two things I would love to dig into.
The first one is just pricing versus cost value gap.
What was the shipping price index? The industrial price index for shipments overall in the quarter? Do you have that? Yes.
Give me one second Steve.
Hey while you are doing that? My question here is this has been such a tremendous tailwind across the businesses and as we look out and we look at the sustainability based on the order pricing over time when I start steering into next year.
Relative to commodities just question is I know you guys say you feel good about it but maybe give us a little more confidence about what drives your conviction that you can continue to create a positive value gap there as we look at longer term past the fourth quarter.
Steve we got to do detailed business plans for 2014 but we have running positive OPI on pricing on orders.
I think we expect across most of the businesses that's going to continue and the early reads I have gotten on direct material deflation for next year and material productivity but direct material deflation for next year is still very favorable for us.
Last year we were $350 million something like that on a value gap.
This year we are at $660 million.
Just under $700 million.
Just under $700 million but on the way to the higher number than that I think Steve we are going to be positive again next year and that will be something I will give you more flavor for in the Outlook Meeting in December.
Okay.
The selling price quarter was 70 basis points positive.
Okay.
Great.
Then another question so when you think about Avio and some of the capital deployment and I guess the pricing the $0.02 charge that you sort of fair market value the pricing on GAAP.
I mean did that change your view of the financial metrics for the deal originally and how do you think about that? Maybe also broader context on oil and gas and some of those M&amp;A that you now got a lot more track record now behind you how are you thinking about that Jeff in terms of performance relative to your original expectations? Well let me give Jeff the Avio question now.
Yes.
What I would say Steven Avio is I think what part of those fair value adjustments tell you is the business was actually more profitable than what we thought we were buying when we finally got in there to see a lot of the detail because of antitrust constraints we couldn't see a lot of detail around parts of our Aviation business.
The adjustments were larger than we expected initially but they are larger for all the right reasons meeting the margins on the parts particularly GE90 they have got a ton of productivity over the last number of years simply for GE90 program so that will work well with us or for us going forward.
The idea was kind of unique accounting convention given their supplier relationship with us.
I think that's all goodness that's going to come back to us so this is actually I think good helpful.
On the oil and gas stuff we like the places that we are in and the deals we have done so but I think they are different things.
Go ahead Steve I am sorry.
I just was trying to get a sense of the financial metrics also as you look back on the track record for the oil and gas deals a couple of years ago? Look I think when we do reviews with our board if you look at the deals we have done starting in 2011 2012 and 2013 versus deal case we are still running ahead on those.
Your next question comes from the line of Deane Dray representing Citi Research.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Can we go back to get some color on the order pricing on Power &amp; Water equipment coming in negative in the quarter and also slightly negative in oil and gas? Just put this in context.
Is there any change in the competitive environment? Is this some FX impact because it does break a streak of some of the positive pricing that you had? Yes.
I don't know.
It relates to Power &amp; Water.
I don't think there is a huge trend change here.
I think thermal pricing on units was just under 7% down I think it's an extraordinarily competitive market globally.
I don't think anything has really changed there.
Those dynamics haven't changed.
On wind it really is a bifurcated world.
In the U.S.
we have got really good price over the first six months of the year.
We feel good about where we are going with our U.S.
wind.
Internationally it's more competitive around pricing and wind in the quarter on OPI was down a 130 basis points.
PGS services was better.
It was up 1.4% on thermal.
Then oil and gas we got two specific dynamics going on.
We had a really profitable order that we took in the third quarter of 2012 in the U.S.
around an LNG facility that we didn't repeat and we had the big Russian the Yamal order here in this quarter that was not nearly as profitable as that as well.
And that really drove oil and gas OPI down in the quarter.
We expect oil and gas OPI in the fourth quarter to get back to a positive and we expect it to be positive for the year on a year-to-date basis.
Great I liked that last point you made.
And then just thinking about the fourth quarter Jeff you said that you are tracking well for solid organic revenue growth.
The slides as you are biased towards the low end of the range but clearly you have got momentum here and I would liked your comment that you have got a slight hedge in the plans for more contingency.
How does that contingency change let's say versus the first quarter? Because you certainly look like you have got a lot more buffer in hitting these margin targets today versus where we were in the first quarter.
I think Deane it's about the same hedge we had at the end of the second quarter and then for us on the revenue side basically you have got the whole company ex-Power &amp; Water which has operated pretty well all year and what you are going to see in fourth quarter is just a more normal run rate for Power &amp; Water.
So that's really if you think about the range we had on the page and how I talk about the business going forward really the only difference is Power &amp; Water.
And so you are going to see a more normal quarter for Power &amp; Water from a revenue standpoint and that should carry forward into next year.
Great.
Thank you.
Great.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa representing JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Hey Steve.
How are you doing? Not too bad.
So I think you said 5% industrial revenue growth as you were exiting the slide deck before Q&amp;A through fourth quarter? Yes.
That's organic? Yes.
That's the expectation around 5% for Q4.
Okay.
So for the year you guys are going to end up around flat for the year to up 1% 0% to 1% type of thing? Well we think we will be at the lower end of the range in there Steve.
Okay and then I am just curious as to ultimately there were some moving parts here with the slide you gave in the first quarter on Power &amp; Water I think it was slide five where you guys laid out the first and the second half and you kind of underperformed a bit in the second quarter on pure profit $1.1 billion versus $1.3 billion.
You had $2.9 billion for the second half.
Maybe could you just tell us where you are going to be relatively to that $2.9 billion for profit for Power &amp; Water ? Yes.
Steve I don't know.
I don't think we are going to guide on that.
I mean you are obviously going to be above it though right I would assume? Yes.
I don't think I can give you any answer on that.
I don't think - we don't provide guidance.
I don't think I can give you that number.
Here's what I would said about third quarter to fourth quarter is the way I would think about it and power is a piece of this construct is we will end the third quarter here on an adjusted basis at $0.40 a share.
We typically get a big volume ramp from third quarter to fourth quarter.
Last year that was $0.08.
This year we have got a bigger ramp volume wise going from third quarter to fourth quarter.
We are going to do that with a much better cost structure than what we did last year third quarter to fourth quarter.
More value gap.
We are ahead of the curve on SG&amp;A and cost savings.
That's going to give us additional incrementals additional volume leverage as we move from third to fourth quarter.
So Power &amp; Water is a piece of that framework.
They are a big piece of it because they have a very large volume ramp from third to fourth quarter and I think we feel very good about the construct that we have around that and all of that should help us achieve the 70 basis points for the year.
Steve Power &amp; Water is going to have positive revenue positive gross profit and positive margins in Q4.
Yes right.
Thanks It is going to perform well.
Steve the last thing I would add is if you go back to last seven years five in the last seven years we have grown margins from third to fourth quarter better than 250 basis points.
In four of the last seven years we have grown to more than 310 basis points from third quarter to fourth quarter so.
Yes clearly.
And then just on the distributed power stuff.
I didn't quite again going back to that slide where you had aero of 100 units.
It sounds like you are dramatically kind of outperforming.
Could you just maybe talk about where the distributed power stuff came from this quarter and is this a timing issue for this year or is that pure upside this year relative to what you expected in the fourth quarter because I know there was a big group of distributed power stuff coming in the fourth quarter seem to come a bit early? It's pretty global business.
I would say there is more opportunities in the Middle East and Asia and places like that.
I would say there was some more in the third quarter than what we expected but I still expect them to have a good solid growth in Q4 as well but I would say we probably at the end of the day had a few more aeroderivatives in Q3 than we originally expected.
Your next question comes from the line of Shannon O'Callaghan representing Nomura.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Just in terms of the restructuring and gains in the fourth quarter it sounds like you might go ahead and do some restructuring.
If you do you will have some gains in industrial but as it plays into the 70 basis points right? The restructuring is incorporated the gains are in segments.
Is that all gravy on top of that? There is none of that sort of baked into getting to the 70? Shannon the way that I talked about it today and the way we are planning is the 70 is without gains so basically the intent is to use the gains we had to do additional restructuring.
Okay but like I said restructuring (Inaudible) I know weren't any in the quarter but it is not in the quarter.
If we have right? Yes.
Okay.
Then just on the framework the high single-digit to low double-digit operating earnings back at EPG you also used to show that that translated to double-digit EPS growth and now no one sort of there in terms of consensus.
I mean is this double-digit part of the equation sort of not on the table anymore? I mean I know it's still high single digits to double-digit operating earnings which doesn't seem like we are getting there on on the EPS basis.
Is that kind off the table at this point? Look we don't give guidance any more.
Okay? So let's start with that.
Again I think you have got some stuff in Avio and stuff in corporate but when you look at Industrial and Capital I actually view those exactly the same way we have looked at them when I was at EPG.
Shaquana we are running up against another earnings call so why don't we take one more question here? Yes sir.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Glynn representing Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Last year late in the year things got a little variable up there in the economy customers taking delivery.
If we look at your backlog I was wondering what the key variables are in terms of how backlog execution could play out? Just for example I think from healthcare orders it would seem would be seem positive growth there by now.
Yes.
Chris I will give you a view.
I actually think the backlog is pretty firm.
I don't think there is commercial issues really I think what Jeff talked about like in oil and gas is stuff that we could have executed better on so we are not seeing really any kind of variability in the marketplace in terms of customers pushing back on deliveries.
Great.
Why don't we wrap up today.
Thank you everyone for attending.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We will be distributing our quarterly supplementals data for GE Capital later this morning.
I have some announcement regarding the upcoming investor events.
On Friday November 15th we will host a GE Capital Investor Meeting in Norwalk Connecticut.
This meeting will begin at 10 am.
We hope to see you there.
Second our Annual Outlook Investor Meeting with our Chairman will be held in New York City again on Wednesday December 18<sup>th</sup>.
We will send a little more information closer to that date.
Then finally our fourth quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be available on Friday January 17<sup>th</sup>.
As always we are available today to take your questions.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Trevor Schauenberg vice president of investor communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays fourth quarter and total year 2013 earnings webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued a press release and the presentation earlier this morning.
The slides are available on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein and our new IR leader Mac [Ribbons].
Now Id like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Trevor and good morning everybody.
The company had a good fourth quarter in a generally improving environment.
Orders grew by 8% and our backlog is at an all-time high at $244 billion.
Growth market orders grew by 13% and the U.S.
expanded by 8% and Europe grew by 3%.
So pretty broad-based growth and essentially organic growth was up 5% for the quarter.
We earned $0.53 per share in the quarter up 20%.
Our industrial earnings growth was up 12% with six of seven segments growing.
Capital earned $2.5 billion including some tax-efficient gains as we exited global platforms.
And we were able to pull forward $0.05 of industrial restructuring partially offset by $0.03 of gain so this is more than we expected and will give us some more cost out in 2014.
We continue to run the company well.
Margins grew by 100 basis points in the quarter and 60 basis points for the year.
This actually reflects 66 basis points before the impact of acquisitions.
Our value gap was exceptionally strong and we reduced structural cost by $1.6 billion for the year.
We generated $17.4 billion of CFOA in India with $89 billion of consolidated cash.
We allocated accounts in a value-creating way.
We returned $18.2 billion through dividends and buyback.
We completed $9 billion of M&amp;A primarily in oil and gas and aviation and these businesses are delivering for investors.
So overall this was a good quarter for GE and positions us to deliver in 2014 and beyond.
Our earnings for the quarter were about $31 billion a record.
We also ended the year with a record high backlog of $244 billion.
We had growth in both equipment and services.
There was real strength in power and water.
We ended the year with 125 orders for heavy duty gas turbines.
Power gen services grew by 9% which was actually 16% excluding Europe.
And recently our gains were broad-based.
The U.S.
continued to rebound growing 8%.
For the total year orders grew by 8% and backlog grew by $34 billion.
Aviation orders reflect our record backlog for equipment but at the same time aviation services continues to be very strong.
Orders for oil and gas equipment are always lumpy but orders year to date are up 8% and were encouraged by the orders price performance in oil and gas.
We built a big backlog in energy management which should help in 2014.
And transportation is being impacted by a weak mining market.
Orders pricing was in line with our expectations.
We saw pricing pressure in heavy-duty gas turbines mainly based on regional mix.
But on balance we expect to continue to drive a positive value gap in 2014.
Our growth initiatives continue to deliver results.
Growth market revenue was up 10% in the quarter.
Growth was pretty broad-based.
Six of nine regions were up by double digits.
And we continue to build out our growth market presence.
For service 6% revenue growth was the best quarterly result in 2013.
Highlights include 54 advanced gas paths.
Aviation spares grew by 17%.
The oil and gas services grew by 17%.
We launched another 14 productivity offerings in the fourth quarter.
And our dollars per installed base grew by 5% in the quarter.
We continue to win in the market.
The Dubai Airshow resulted in $40 billion of wins.
The Revolution CT is rapidly becoming the industry standard.
Were the only locomotive competitor with both a tier four diesel and an LNG offering in test and we continue to build out service technology in the oil and gas installed base.
At our outlook meeting we set a target of 4% to 7% organic growth for 2014.
And with the huge backlog and strong growth initiatives that looks achievable.
For margins we have a pretty good story on margins growing 100 basis points in the quarter.
We finished the year up 66 basis points on an organic basis.
We had an internal plan that was well above 70 basis points but we were impacted by supply chain quality issues [in wind] and some energy management project delays.
By business we had positive operating leverage year over year and margin expansion in six of seven businesses.
Big drivers of our margin expansion were simplification and value gap.
In 2013 we achieved $1.6 billion of simplification benefits and our value gap was about $900 million.
In addition we were able to do more fourth quarter restructuring which will fortify our margin goals in 2014.
One other note we had no gains in the fourth quarter of 13 versus some gains in the fourth quarter of 12.
So this really was solid performance.
Were getting fairly consistent margin performance across the company and with margins expanding 110 basis points in the second half we really feel like we have good momentum going into 2014.
So on to 2014.
We plan to grow margins in 2014 in line with our goal to exceed 17% by 2016.
And we pulled forward more restructuring in 13 than we originally planned.
In the fourth quarter of 13 we executed $0.05 per share of projects that have an 18-month payback.
This was partially offset by $0.03 of gains.
We finished 2013 with $1.6 billion of structural cost out.
Because of our fourth quarter restructuring were increasing our cost out goals for 2014.
At the outlook meeting we said we would achieve about $1 billion of cost out.
Were now targeting to get more than $1 billion.
And we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be about 14% in 14.
Key margin drivers will again be value gap and simplification.
We expect R&amp;D to be better and mix will be negative as our product sales are growing faster than service.
But our margin plans have been fortified and this should be a tailwind for GE going into 2014.
Look we ended the quarter with significant balance sheet strength.
Our total CFOA was about $17.5 billion for the year consistent with expectations.
We had a good quarter in capital efficiency and working capital.
On the GE Capital side we have substantial liquidity.
Our commercial paper fell below $30 billion for the first time in many many years.
And we ended the year with $89 billion of consolidated cash and about $14 billion at the parent.
Were implementing our plans of value creation and opportunistic and balanced capital allocation.
In 2013 we returned $18.2 billion to investors through dividends and buyback.
And we announced a 16% increase in our dividend at year-end.
And like I said earlier we completed $9 billion of acquisitions.
As I said at the outlook meeting we plan to work capital efficiency hard in 2014 and our capital allocation will create value for our investors.
So with that let me turn it over to Jeff to talk about the operations and performance of the businesses.
Great thank you.
So Ill start with consolidated results.
We had continuing operations revenue of $40.4 billion reported up 3% in the quarter industrial sales of $28.8 billion were up 6% and GE Capital revenues were up $11.1 billion down 5%.
Operating earnings of $5.4 billion were up 16% and operating earnings per share of $0.53 were up 20%.
Continuing EPS of $0.49 which includes the impact of nonoperating pension and net earnings per share of $0.41 includes the impact of discontinued operations which Ill cover on the next page.
As Jeff says total year CFOA was $14.3 billion.
When you add back the $3.2 billion of NBC tax impact you get to $17.5 billion.
We had solid industrial performance this year with the variance to 2012 driven by the NBCU related taxes as I mentioned.
We received $2 billion of dividends from GE Capital in the quarter.
The GE tax rate for the quarter was 19% which is in line with the framework we provided earlier in the year and the total year rate was also 19%.
The GE Capital tax rate was significantly negative in the fourth quarter primarily driven by the tax efficient sale of our Swiss platform which resulted in about $1 billion of tax benefits in the quarter.
This drove a negative 77% tax rate in the quarter and for the year GE Capitals tax rate was a negative 14%.
On the right side you can see the segment results with total industrial segment profit up 12% and six of seven businesses contributing to earnings growth.
GE Capital earnings also grew in the quarter up 38%.
And Ill take you through the dynamics of each of the segments on the following pages but overall a reasonably strong quarter.
On the other items page first we had $0.03 of gains related to industrial transactions.
We disposed of air filtration within our power and water business the Vital Signs business within healthcare and the advanced sensors business within oil and gas.
All three of these gains were booked in corporate.
We had $0.05 of charges in the quarter related to restructuring and other items.
This was about $0.02 higher than we had planned as we continue to invest in restructuring to rightsize the industrial cost structure and position the company for 2014 and beyond.
In discontinued operations we had $787 million in after tax impacts in the quarter really driven by four items.
First we booked $442 million of additional reserves on Grey Zone.
While we saw claims decline in the third quarter claims in the fourth quarter are above our model expectations.
So we revised our assumption to reflect a further slowing in the overall claims reduction rate.
We ended the quarter with $859 million in reserves.
On WMC pending claims declined from $6.3 billion in the third quarter to $5.6 billion at the end of the year as the team settled about $1 billion of pending claims.
That was partially offset by new pending claims of $281 million.
We recorded a $116 million charge resulting in the total reserve balance at the end of the year of $800 million and thats flat with where we ended the third quarter.
Also in the quarter we signed an agreement to sell our consumer bank in Russia resulting in a $170 million loss in discontinued ops principally FX-related.
And we expect to complete the transaction in the first quarter and this will lower our E&amp;I by almost $1 billion.
Lastly we had a [unintelligible] tax adjustment related to plastics of $65 million on disallowment of interest reductions from years previous.
So on an operating basis we had $0.02 higher industrial restructuring versus gains which was about $300 million on a pretax basis.
Its the main driver of our higher corporate expense in the quarter.
Now Ill go through each of the segments starting with power and water.
Orders of $10.3 billion were up 44% our largest orders quarter in the last five years.
Excluding Europe orders were actually up 56%.
Equipment orders of $6.4 billion were up 81% driven by thermal and wind.
Thermal orders were up three times driven by the Algerian deal and strength in Saudi and Latin America.
Excluding Algeria thermal orders were still up over 100%.
We had orders for 65 gas turbines in the fourth quarter versus 26 last year and that brought the total year to 124 units on order.
Backlog for thermal was up 70% for the year.
Wind orders were up 63%.
We had orders for 779 wind turbines versus 412 in the fourth quarter of 12 principally driven by U.S.
demand.
And wind backlog was up 43% for the year.
Service orders of $3.9 billion were up 8% primarily driven by PGS up 9% and up 16% ex Europe.
And we were very strong in AGPs.
We did 25 AGPs in the quarter versus 6 in the previous year.
Total [unintelligible] price was lower as Jeff said at 3% with thermal down 4% and wind down 5%.
Revenue in the quarter was $7.7 billion.
That was flat with last year.
Thermal revenue was down 11% as we shipped 28 gas turbines versus 32 in the fourth quarter of 12.
That was partially offset by wind up 6% with shipment of 875 turbines versus 722 a year ago.
We recognized the revenue on 200 fewer wind turbines than we had planned primarily due to a supply chain quality issue and project delays and customer delays.
The impact on the quarter was approximately $500 million of revenue and including the reserves for the quality issues about $100 million of margin.
As we work through the quarter here we had some blade issues in November.
The team was all over it.
We spent an enormous amount of time within the supply chain understanding the blade issue.
We spent most of December understanding what the fleet impact would be and what the manufacturing anomalies associated with it were and it was really not until around Christmastime that we realized that we probably werent going to [rev req] a lot of these turbines that potentially could have an issue with the blade.
Service revenues of $3.8 billion were up 3% up 8% ex Europe.
On segment profit $1.9 billion was up 9% driven primarily by value gap.
The power and water team has also done an exceptional job on cost with SG&amp;A in the quarter down 18% and down 13% for the year.
Margins improved 190 basis points year over year in the fourth quarter.
Overall based on 2013 orders were seeing a gradual improvement in heavy duty gas turbines and wind will also have a strong year in 2014.
With these higher deliveries coupled with simplification benefits we expect power and water to grow earnings in 2014.
Based on our backlog we do expect deliveries to ramp through the year similar to 2013.
Additionally were continuing to work through the blade supply issues in wind.
And it could have a moderate impact on the first quarter but it in no way changes our outlook for 2014 for the business or the wind business.
Next is oil and gas.
Orders of $5.5 billion were down 2% with equipment orders down 8%.
Subsea orders were down 10% and drilling and surface was down 20% on tough comparisons to last year.
That was partially offset by M&amp;C up 8%.
For the year equipment orders were up 12% and backlog grew 27%.
Service orders were up 6% led by global service up 8% partially offset by M&amp;C down 3%.
Service backlog grew 27% in services as well.
Orders pricing was strong in the quarter up 1.8%.
Operations in the business had a solid quarter.
Revenue for $5.3 billion was up 17% thats up 9% after acquisitions.
Equipment revenues of $2.8 billion were higher by 16% driven by strong execution in subsea up 70% drilling and service up 20% partially offset by M&amp;C down 18% on continued market softness.
Service revenues of $2.5 billion were up 17% with strength in global services up 9% drilling and surface up 20% and subsea up 45%.
Segment profit grew 24% to $800 million up 18% after acquisitions driven by strong value gap and higher volume.
Margins were up 80 basis points year over year and they were up 120 basis points year over year excluding acquisitions.
Next Ill walk through aviation and healthcare.
Aviation orders of $7 billion were down 5% driven by equipment orders down 15%.
Commercial engine orders were $3.2 billion down 12% primarily driven by the huge ramp of CFM LEAP orders starting in the fourth quarter of 12.
CFM orders were down 23% in the quarter to $1.5 billion.
GEnx orders of $1 billion were up 21% and GE90 orders were up 43% in the quarter.
Commercial engines backlog grew 28% to $21.6 billion despite not yet booking the vast majority of the $23 billion plus of energy commitments from the Dubai Airshow.
Military engine orders were down 43% as we expected so as we look ahead into 2014 for the military business were expecting profits to be down mid-single digits year over year.
Service orders of $3 billion were up 11% driven by commercial spares up 16% to $26 million a day.
Military service orders were down 3% driven by sequestration and lower flying hours which are down 15% to 20% over the last 12 months.
Service backlog ended the year at $97 billion 22% higher than year-end 2012.
Orders pricing was strong with positive 1.8%.
Revenue in the quarter of $6.2 billion was up 13% up 7% ex Avio.
The commercial equipment revenue was 17% higher with 627 unit deliveries versus 589 in 4Q of 12 and a greater mix of higher value GEnx and GE90 engines.
We shipped 80 GEnx engines in the quarter.
The military revenues were up 16% on lower units 239 versus 258 but the value was higher driven by favorable mix of tankers and fighter engines.
Service revenues were up 10% driven by strong spares revenue up 17% to $26.4 million a day.
And military service was down 17% driven in part by sequestration and the lower flying hours in addition to the wind down of some upgrade programs.
Operating profit of $1.25 billion was up 20% up 13% ex Avio on strong volume and value gap.
Margin rates improved 130 basis points 100 basis points ex Avio.
Strong cost productivity more than offset GEnx mix and higher R&amp;D spend and also if you exclude the Duarte disposition from the fourth quarter of 12 margins would have been up 310 basis points in the quarter.
So overall a very strong quarter and a strong year for the aviation team.
Healthcare orders of $5.4 billion were up 1% driven by emerging markets up 4% with Latin America up 15% and China up 8% partially offset by Russia down 19%.
From a developed markets perspective the U.S.
was flat Europe was up 2% Japan was down 10% but actually up 11% excluding the impact of FX.
Equipment orders of $3.4 billion were down 1%.
CT was down 16% MR was up 1% ultrasound was down 2% and molecular imaging was up 6%.
Service orders of $2.1 billion were up 3% driven by healthcare IT up 6%.
Healthcare IT growth has picked up as new product launches are gaining traction.
And as Jeff said at the December outlook meeting we expect healthcare IT to be up 10% organically in 2014.
Revenue of $5.1 billion was down 1%.
Thats flat excluding the effects of FX.
And fourth quarter profit of $1.1 billion was up 4% as the benefits of simplification more than offset the impact of lower price and foreign exchange.
SG&amp;A was down 13% in the quarter and down 6% for the year.
Margin rates were up 110 basis points.
Excluding the impact of the Thomas Medical disposition in the fourth quarter of 12 our profit would have been up 13% with margins expanding 230 basis points.
Next Ill cover transportation.
Orders of $1.2 billion were down 9%.
Equipment orders were down 2% and we had orders for 149 locos versus 88 in the fourth quarter of 12.
But mining orders continue to be soft down 60%.
Service orders were down 15% driven by flat service contracts but offset by fewer modifications and weak demand for mining parts.
Revenues of $1.5 billion were up 7% year over year.
Strong equipment growth of 22% was offset by service revenue down 8% again driven by soft mining parts.
Locomotive shipments were higher with fourth quarter deliveries of 171 units compared with 117 a year ago.
Operating profit of $280 million was up 11% with margins better by 70 basis points.
And the improvement was principally driven by positive value gap.
In 2013 transportation executed well in a difficult environment expanding margins 140 basis points.
Looking into 2014 we expect a continuing soft mining industry with OHB shipments down 50% for the year.
And the first quarter will be weaker than that probably down closer to 80%.
We expect a slow recovery for North American coal offset somewhat by strong international pipeline for locos.
Performance in our energy management business has been disappointing this year.
Although results were modestly better sequentially they were still well below the business potential.
Orders continue to be a good story up 6% in the quarter to $2.3 billion a record for the business.
This was driven by power conversion up 18% on strong renewables industry volume offset partially by industrial solutions down 6%.
2013 backlog was up 20% with every single platform in the business being higher.
Revenues were up 4% principally driven by industrial solutions and intelligent platforms.
Operating profit of $46 million was down 28% driven by power conversion.
This business has continued to deal with backlog conversion challenges and higher setup costs as they began production of our new marine platform.
Over the last few years the marine business has more than doubled its backlog and total power conversion has grown backlog by 35%.
We expect to see steady progress in power conversion throughout 2014 as their volume ramps and they focus on converting this backlog.
Despite the poor performance in energy management this quarter we do think we are making progress in our restructuring efforts and our execution issues.
For instance our industrial solutions business that we started restructuring two years ago was up 71% in op profit in the quarter.
It was up 38% for the year on op profit on almost flat volume.
So more work to do here but also some good execution within our industrial solutions business.
Appliances and lighting had a good quarter primarily driven by appliances.
Overall the appliance domestic industry was up 10% on units with strength in both retail up 10% and contract up 12%.
Housing starts continue to be positive.
They were up 16% with single family better by 13% and multifamily up 22%.
Revenues of $2.2 billion were higher by 6% led by a 9% increase in appliances.
Lighting revenues were up 1% with strong global LED sales which were up 50% offset by continued decline in our incandescent product lines.
Segment profit of $142 million was up 23%.
Appliances op profit was up 51% driven by positive value gap and productivity and lighting op profit was higher by 5%.
Margins improved 90 basis points in the quarter for the segment.
Next Im going to go through GE Capital.
Before I go through the standard operating page I thought Id take you through a layout of some of the major items in the quarter similar to the way Keith did it in the November meeting.
So if you start on the left here GE Capital earned $2.5 billion up 38% from a year ago.
On the right side you can see we had $1.6 billion of tax benefits and gains from the Switzerland and the BAY transactions as we discussed.
We sold 68.5% share in the Swiss consumer bank via an IPO resulting in $1.2 billion of tax benefits and gains.
In addition we completed the sale of our remaining stake in Bay Bank resulting in a $400 million gain.
As the team continues to reposition the portfolio we did have $1 billion of charges related to dispositions and restructuring of noncore consumer and real estate assets as well as impairments in CLL and GECAS.
And Ill cover some of the principal drivers here.
In the consumer segment we exited $700 million of mortgage assets in the Netherlands at a loss of $75 million.
And we recorded an impairment charge of $90 million on an investment in a Taiwanese bank that positions us to exit that noncore asset in 2014.
In real estate we had a $75 million charge related to the sell down of the equity book in our Swedish portfolio.
In CLL we recorded an after-tax impairment of $290 million related to two specific investments as well as a small writedown in our corporate asset book.
And in GECAS we recorded impairments of $270 million primarily related to certain older aircraft types that are more susceptible to changes in technology and operator preferences which reduces our exposure to these less desirable assets and creates additional portfolio flexibility.
And Ill cover more of these items as I go through each of the segments on the following page.
Finally we had adjustments to reserving models primarily in North America retail finance and consumer international resulting in $200 million in higher after-tax credit costs in the quarter.
In retail we increased our loss reserve coverage in 12 months to 12.5 months of forecasted chargeoffs.
And after adjusting for all these items GE Capitals net income in the quarter was $2.1 billion.
Now to cover operations in the segments revenue of $11.1 billion was down 5% with assets down 4% or $22 billion year over year.
Net income of $2.5 billion was up 38% from prior year as the tax benefits and gains as I mentioned from the Swiss and BAY transactions more than offset portfolio actions higher losses and impairments and lower assets.
We ended the quarter with $380 billion of ENI.
Thats down $36 billion or 9% from last year and down $3 billion sequentially.
Noncore ENI was down 22% to $53 billion.
Net interest margins in the quarter increased 16 basis points to 5% and flat with the third quarter.
Volume was up 5% in the quarter with new business ROIs over 2% as we continue to stay disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles.
Tier one common on a Basel I basis improved by 10 basis points sequentially and 120 basis points year over year to 11.4% driven by the reduction in assets and after paying $2 billion of dividends in the quarter.
For total year 2013 GE Capital paid $6 billion in dividends at the parent and will pay an additional $130 million in the first quarter to reflect the higher fourth quarter earnings.
On the right side of the page asset quality trends continue to be strong with delinquency rates improving across the portfolio.
We ended the quarter with $29 billion of commercial paper ahead of our plans and liquidity was very strong ending the quarter at $75 billion.
Now Ill walk through each of the segments.
The commercial lending and leasing business ended the fourth quarter with $74 billion of assets - thats down 4% from last year - including a reduction in noncore assets of $3 billion.
On book core volume was $13 billion down 8% due to the elevated level of customer activity we saw last year from the U.S.
fiscal cliff concerns.
But we did see strong volume growth in the U.S.
direct mid-market businesses which were up 32% in the quarter versus 2012.
Overall new business returns remained attractive at about 2% ROIs despite continued excess liquidity.
These are positive growth indicators as we think about our core CLL business going into next year.
Earnings of $263 million were down 52% driven by lower assets and impairments.
After adjusting for impairments that I covered on the prior page earnings would have been up 1% with assets down 4%.
Asset quality was stable in the portfolio.
In 2013 the CLL business earned $2 billion and going into 14 we expect it to be up double digits.
The consumer segment ended the quarter with $132 billion of assets.
Thats down 4% from last year.
The Swiss and BAY deals we exited reduced assets by $5 billion.
Net income of $2.1 billion was up almost three times again driven by these two transactions partially offset by higher credit costs and charges related to the portfolio actions that I talked about on the prior page.
North American retail finance earned $466 million in the fourth quarter - thats down 2% - as higher core net income was offset by reserve adjustments and continued marketing investments.
Asset growth in the business was strong at 10% driven by volume up 11%.
Overall consumer asset quality remained stable.
Real estate had another decent quarter.
Assets ended the quarter at $39 billion.
Thats down 16% down $1 billion sequentially.
The equity book is down 32% from a year ago to $14 billion.
Net income of $128 million was down 59% versus 2012 but in line with where we expected them to be.
That was driven by nonrepeat of last years gain from the sale of our business properties portfolio of about $82 million and our Sweden equity sell down at about $75 million.
In the quarter we sold 341 properties with a book value of about $2.4 billion for $145 million in gains.
The debt business earned over $100 million in the quarter and originated $4.7 billion of volume at attractive returns including the purchase of a $1.8 billion U.K.
portfolio from Deutsche Postbank.
Asset quality continues to improve with 30-day delinquencies at 124 basis points.
And thats the lowest level weve seen since the crisis.
The real estate team earned $1.7 billion in 2013 and continues to execute well as they shrink the equity book and invest in a profitable debt business.
In 14 we expect the business to have lower earnings as weve shared with you with the debt business performing well offset by lower gains and tax benefits.
Within the verticals GECAS earned $71 million.
Thats down 79% driven by impairments of $270 million which were up roughly $230 million from prior year.
As I mentioned on the prior page we revised our expectations for certain older aircraft types in our portfolio.
We lowered our estimate of future cash flows on these aircraft to reflect a shorter useful life and lower residual values.
As a result we had impairments related to old and narrow bodies of about $130 million cargo aircraft of $50 million and $32 million on 50-seat regional jets.
The average age of the aircraft we impaired in the quarter was 15 years compared to our fleet average of about 7 years.
GECAS did end the quarter with zero delinquencies and no aircraft on the ground.
For the total year 2013 GECAS earned $900 million and in 14 we expect them to be up double digits.
EFS earnings were up 95 in the quarter to $117 million driven largely by lower margin impairments year over year.
We had several large items in the quarter.
As we continue to reposition the portfolio the capital team continues to execute well and deliver strong operating results.
In 13 the business earned $8.3 billion up 12% on $36 billion lower E&amp;I.
Capital liquidity and funding are all very strong and we continue to be disciplined around the volume that were originating.
In 14 we expect GE Capital to earn roughly $7 billion on core growth offset by lower gains tax benefits and the impact of our anticipated retail finance IPO.
So with that Ill turn it back to Jeff.
Great Jeff.
Thanks.
Again just to recap on 13 we had a good year in 13.
Industrially our segment profits grew by 12% in the second half and then we had five of seven segments that had strong growth for the year.
We grew margins by 66 basis points organically close to our 70 basis point goal.
Organic growth was flat but up 5% ex power and water.
Capital had a solid year with earnings up 12% while shrinking E&amp;I by 9%.
And they paid a dividend of $6 billion to the parent.
Per our plan we returned $18.2 billion of cash to investors through dividends and buybacks.
So we hit really most of our goals for 2013.
And then looking forward on the 2014 framework we have no change for the 2014 operating framework.
We expect double digit industrial earnings growth similar to the second half of 13.
We expect 4% to 7% organic growth with expanded margins.
GE Capital has about $7 billion of earnings reflecting an improving origination environment the North American retail transaction and lower real estate gains.
Corporate should be slightly more positive as we pulled forward restructuring into 2013.
And theres no change in our outlook for cash or revenue.
So we end the year with momentum.
I think we presented this framework to you in December and I would say based on the way we closed the year were quite confident in this operating framework for 2014.
So we feel good about the momentum of the company.
So Trevor with that lets turn it back to you and take some questions.
Great.
Thanks Jeff and Jeff.
Operator lets open up the phone lines for questions.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Davis from Barclays.
Early in the call Jeff you mentioned having greater confidence in the structural cost out.
Can you talk about your confidence in value gap? Price looked a little light particularly in power and water.
Do you have a greater confidence in value gap in 2014 or the same? Or lower? What I would say is the value gap was about $900 million in 13.
Our expectation is that its not that strong.
Its probably more in the couple hundred million dollar range.
When we look at the backlog and where weve gone from a sourcing standpoint we feel confident in the value gap still being a tailwind in 2014.
If you just go a layer lower and you look at gas turbine equipment margin operating profit its going to be positive in 14 versus 13.
So thats the one thats probably had the most intense pricing pressure.
But weve had a very active plan to get about 10% of the costs out of our heavy duty gas turbine product.
And thats going to bleed through.
So just to pick the one where weve had the most intense competition we see positive earnings growth year over year in 14 versus 13 on heavy duty gas turbine operating profit dollars.
And then energy management continues to be a bit of a tough spot.
Where can that business go? Can it ever be a double digit margin business? Is there an end game? Just trying to figure out what we can expect out of these guys.
I think its a very fair question.
I think what Jeff said earlier is were going to do a lot of restructuring this year.
Every time we sit and review the business we compare it directly with their industrial peers all of whom have double digit operating profit rates.
Thats our expectation for this business.
And investors and me should expect substantial improvement in 2014 versus 2013.
And then the next question will come from the line of Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
You guys in the last several quarters have given the year over year change in services margins.
I didnt see it in the slides.
Can you maybe just give a little extra color on that year over year? Service margins year over year were up 190 basis points fourth quarter to fourth quarter.
Total year we were up about 90 basis points full year 13 versus 12.
And then just a couple of followups.
On the oil and gas side whats your visibility on the orders there? Theres just been a lot of moving parts and mix dynamics at your peers.
And the orders have obviously run very hot.
Everybody is kind of full from a capacity perspective.
How do you see the orders in drilling and surface and subsea playing out over the next year? There was one big order for these guys that pushed probably into the first quarter thats big enough to be a meaningful swinger year over year that should lead to a positive first quarter from an orders standpoint.
But to your point particularly in subsea weve got a strong backlog pretty high visibility and so as you know these things are lumpy.
So our expectation is that these guys continue to have good solid orders growth next year but a push of one big project is meaningful from an orders standpoint.
And then just on the distributed power the aeroderiv shipments I think you had a target this year for 200 something.
What do you expect for next year? And where did you finish this year on the aeroderivs? On aeroderivatives next year were going to be more or less in the range of this year.
We expect to see potentially a little bit of growth but its not going to be enormous growth.
We had a big year this year on aeroderivatives particularly trailer mounted so were hoping for a small amount of growth.
But its not going to be enormous.
We had a boomer this year and I think next year were kind of in the flattish range.
And I dont want to get all choked up but thanks to Trevor for all the years of help and best of luck in his new role.
Ill miss you too Steve.
[laughter] Not sure about that but well talk after.
[laughter] Your next question will come from the line of Andrew Obin of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
As I look at the composition of the margins on slide six various puts and takes what is the big drag in 2014 versus the 66 basis points that we did in 2013 just thinking about it? Why dont I start and then Ill turn it over to Jeff.
I think the way weve tried to build 2014 is to drive the things we can really control in the environment.
So were going to have another year thats going to be very aggressive on the structural cost out.
And you guys saw us do well this year.
Were going to have another year of real focus there.
Were going to have a positive value gap not as strong as we had this year but still positive.
And I think thats realistic.
So I think simplification is in our control value gap weve got pretty good visibility.
Thats going to be positive.
I think R&amp;D we were able to do a little bit more R&amp;D this year.
I think that creates a little bit more headroom for us to make sure that R&amp;D is a positive next year for us.
And then the toughest thing always to call here is mix in terms of where.
So what weve tried to do is create a buffer with the things we can control to be able to better balance the mix impact as we go through the year.
So were not taking our focus off anything.
If anything our structural cost is going to be aggressive.
Our restructuring is going to be aggressive.
And what weve tried to do is create a little bit of buffer vis--vis how mix shakes out in the year.
I would just add on mix we think equipment is going to be ahead of service next year.
And weve got a real ramp in GEnx weve got a real ramp in wind.
And thats most of what that mix is driving.
And maybe I missed it but could you just comment on the order patterns in December? Any big positive or negative surprises versus your expectations other than what happened in wind obviously? In orders I think power and water was a little bit stronger.
We expected a strong fourth quarter but it was probably even a little bit stronger than what we thought.
I think oil and gas like I said tends to be a little bit lumpy.
Aviation weve got such a big backlog in aviation.
I would say the spares number and the service orders are what we watch closely in aviation.
I think those were positive.
Healthcare really no difference in terms of what we thought we were going to see.
And Id say in transportation we just saw weakness around mining and we expect that to play over into next year.
And then the one thing that was really very late-breaking We had one big oil and gas project in Southeast Asia almost $700 million that we were reasonably confident was going to land in the quarter that actually pushed to the first half of next year.
Other than that not a lot of major surprise.
As Jeff said parts and aviation were strong.
We expected them to be strong.
We knew aviation year over year based on the CFM launch in the fourth quarter last year was going to show a little weaker.
So I think most everything else was more or less as expected.
And wind was really not an orders issue.
No we had good wind orders.
Your next question will come from the line of Steve Winoker of Sanford Bernstein.
Id like to push that oil and gas question a little bit further.
You know the majors in [petrograph] have all stopped expanding capex.
Theyve got numerous projects that are being deferred [giving cost blowouts] and thats likely leading to a decline in subsea equipment at least as we see it as customers digest their prior orders here.
And then weve got nominally high crude prices despite that cost inflation that seems to be eroding some of these returns offshore for these guys.
So just maybe help us understand this in a little more depth how youre going to buck some of that trend.
Or do you just disagree with my assertions there? Again I would say that if you look at most of the big industry contextual comments even with some of the concern about capex costs and things like that the forecast is for capex to be positive growth in 2014.
Maybe not as great as it was in years gone by but still pretty great.
If you look at the national oil companies versus the integrated oil companies our view is that the NOCs really havent backed off at all.
And thats where we see a ton of activity.
Id say the place that we still think is reasonably weak is maybe around North America some of the drilling and surface stuff.
Were kind of watching that.
And then measurement and control stuff were watching that.
But the last thing I would say you know when I get up in the morning around oil and gas if you asked me what I worry about first its shipping our late backlog you know? In other words we have such a traffic jam around the volume weve got in our factories.
Id say weve got extremely good visibility certainly in the short term.
You know again its something we all watch but I think theres always going to be big puts and takes in this business.
But Id leave you the thought of NOCs versus IOCs the backlog we have today and getting it executed and a long term notion that says if you pick up any of the big reports that your banks tend to write you know they basically say that the long term health of the industry is still pretty strong.
Yeah were not a bank but I get it.
And thats helpful.
Now since you mentioned what you think about first thing in the morning the blade issue for wind can you identify a little bit more why we shouldnt have to worry about this happening again from just an operational standpoint? I think this is stuff that comes out of the supply chain.
We look at it weve been looking at it for a period of time.
I think our teams really feel like weve got it isolated and reflected.
Weve got teams that are good at this stuff and I think we know kind of exactly where we are.
It may impact a little bit timing but our read is its not going to impact the year at all from the standpoint of either power and water or the power and water segment growth that weve got planned for the year or the wind business revenue growth for the year.
So were good at this stuff we use an abundance of caution whenever it relates to our customers and things like that and I think thats what weve exercised here.
I was just going to add the population we think were talking about its one manufacturing batch of blades that we think weve isolated it to when were doing instructions on nondestructive testing etc.
So the percentage of the fleet were talking about is very very small.
And so were just trying to isolate this down and we wanted to be very careful at year-end about how we dealt with it.
And we think weve got our arms around the issue and as Jeff said it will play out here in the first quarter or second quarter of 14.
And the $1.6 billion provision number in GE Capital was bigger than I expected trending from what 821 or something last quarter and then bigger last year.
And it looks like as you said the 30-day delinquencies are getting better.
So is this all credit model changes? And do you expect it to stay elevated? Or how should we think about modeling this or anticipate it? It might help if I kind of explain how it moved.
Year over year last year we were at about $1.1 billion about a $230 million increase in consumer.
Now almost half that increase is associated with selling that Dutch mortgage business in the quarter.
Part of the economics of the loss in that actually ran through the provision and then directly to writeoffs.
So that year over year skews half of it.
And then I mentioned booking up coverage in the North American retail business from 12 to 12.5 months.
And then we had a book up on some restructured consumer accounts in Asia year over year.
Thats the bulk of it.
On the commercial side were up 175 year over year in provisions about half of that in real estate and half of that in CLL.
And some of that was specific reserves around a couple of accounts but some of it was just hitting reserve floors.
So weve said were not going to go below certain levels of reserve coverage.
The portfolio quality of both real estate and CLL would naturally push us below those floors because things have improved so quickly.
And were kind of booking back to those floors which is not going to go through there and thats resulting in reprovisioning up with not necessarily direct correlation to whats happening for me from a portfolio and quality perspective.
And thats most of the change year over year.
And before I hand it off I might have missed this did you guys say what the equivalent to that 66 basis point number would be in your rough expectations for this year when you put it all together? No we didnt say.
Nice try Steve.
[laughter] You know weve talked about by the end of 2016 being at 17% plus operating margins and thats how were defining success and thats what were targeting.
Your next question will come from the line of Deane Dray of Citi Research.
Just to follow up on Steves question on the 66 margin year over year could you help bridge where you came short on the 70 basis point target? I know the blade issue you size at $100 million on the margin line but you also included energy management as one of the margin pressures.
So if you could just bridge for us those two items? The wind issue in power would have been diluted to the rate that they printed in the quarter but it would have been accretive to the overall industrial segment.
So thats a couple of basis points on the total year rate.
And combined with energy management if they had delivered the framework that we expected them to deliver on we would have been above 71 or 72 basis points for the year.
So were counting basis points here.
The difference between 66 and 70 at this level is $40 million of profit for the year.
So were really counting small increments here.
But ex those two items we would have been above 70 basis points.
Good thats exactly what I was looking for.
And then just a couple of other items.
The commercial spares being up 16% thats well above global flying hours.
What do you attribute the upside to? Is there a restocking going on? Is it easier comp? That looks above expectations.
A couple of things.
Flying hours are improving pretty dramatically.
Weve been globally north of 5% and that has a dramatic impact.
You also have a little bit of restocking going on.
The orders rate is improving partly because airlines have cut back on the level of inventory they were carrying on spare parts in 2012.
And then the fleet has continued to grow and the fleet is aging and were seeing more instances of overhauls.
So the overhaul rate if you will on the installed base is going up.
And thats driving demand for spare parts.
So I think it all fits together.
And just last question from me I know youve had uncovered restructuring in the quarter here.
Whats the expectations for uncovered restructuring? You said $0.10 for 2014.
And then specifically do you have a line of sight on uncovered restructuring in the first quarter? I think what we said was we expected to invest $1 billion to $1.5 billion in 14.
We did as Jeff mentioned end up accelerating a little bit of that investment into the fourth quarter largely because the projects were ready to go and we didnt want to wait to start on execution on those items.
Overall thats money that would have been spent in 14 that wont now but I still think our range is $1 billion to $1.5 billion.
I think there will be other ideas.
We talked about doing some restructuring in 15.
So Im not sure that range is really changing much.
I would expect the benefits as Jeff said would be slightly better in 14 than they otherwise would have been because we got a little bit of a head start.
I think thats the way Id think about it.
Weve really fortified the benefits in 14 and those should be greater.
In terms of the timing on the restructuring earlier is better than later and I would expect the bulk of this to happen in the first quarter or certainly the first half of the year.
And your next question will come from the line of Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Just on GECAS did you change the useful life on 737s at all? And if not why not? Heres what we did.
We go through this annual review youre very familiar with it.
In the third quarter we use third-party data on useful life residential values lease rates etc.
We always have some cleanup in the fourth quarter.
It usually doesnt amount to much.
This year coming out of the third quarter the team took a deeper dive on some of our older aircraft principally narrow body.
Were in a situation now where youve got an enormous amount of technology being introduced over the next five to ten years.
When you get to this level of oil and jet [A] price the differences in efficiency economically are enormous versus what they might have been historically.
And we just decided on both older narrow body Boeing and older narrow body Airbus that our views of useful lives and residential values were less than what third parties had given us as appraisals in the third quarter.
And it gives us flexibility to deal with these aircraft and we think were on the right side.
Well be in the market with some of these aircraft in 2014 and well have an idea of just where we are vis--vis the portfolio.
Yeah I just understand like youd obviously marked down the older ones first but if a 37 used to have a useful life of 40 years and now youre using 35 - Im just making up numbers - that actually impacts the whole fleet regardless of how old the aircraft are in the book.
They all come down.
This is very specific to 50-seat regional jets the average age was 15 years to Airbus A318s very old 737s.
Some of the 737s were in cargo format.
Etc.
etc.
So its very much narrow body and deep into their lives aircraft.
So I dont think theres a broader implication across the fleet.
I think we like the fleet we have.
Its got an average age of 7 years its priced well.
And just on tax in GE Capital do you need to start off the year accruing higher because the subpart F has not yet kind of been fixed? How do we actually think about that into the new year? Given our year-end our fiscal year-end within GE Capital etc.
the impact for us is really not until the very end of the year.
Were good through the end of November.
So the rate we accrue through the year will reflect the fact that were in good shape relative to AFE through November and then well assume that in December AFE may not be there and thats the rate well accrue to.
So for a placeholder then for 2014 what kind of rate should we be using for Capital? We expect Capital will be single digit tax rate.
And then just one other one from me.
Just kind of back to the margin question and kind of less the bridge from 66 to 70 but more kind of the bridge from you know at the beginning of the year I think you saw line of sight as something like 120 or 130 which was giving you confidence in the 70.
Obviously revenues came in a little lighter.
Theres a couple of things that are identifiable in what youve put in front of us.
But is there anything else that we should be thinking about there that was a problem in 13 that doesnt repeat in 14 and along those lines can you give us an idea of what kind of hedge is in that implicit 40 or so that were looking for for 14? The one thing I would say is that R&amp;D with the way the funding ran for aviation and I would say oil and gas R&amp;D was a little heavier in 13 than I had expected.
And again this is in our control.
Were reasonably confident that R&amp;D is going to be tailwind in 14 versus 13.
So other than that I think its all the puts and takes around mix.
But I think were pretty confident on that.
And is there a way to frame kind of an internal hedge on 2014? I think weve got some momentum now right? So youve got a pretty good framework a pretty good flow and I think thats going to carry us over into 2014.
Your next question will come from the line of John Inch of Deutsche Bank.
Jeff Bornstein just want to go back to your comments around the fact that you think the bulk of the kind of range of restructuring the negative restructuring is sort of first half.
Should we just by inference then be expecting Because GE obviously traditionally kind of has the first three quarters and then you have typically a pretty big fourth quarter.
Should we be expecting then kind of a down EPS first and second quarters or first half versus 2013? We dont give guidance at that level.
I think youre correct in assuming that the bulk of what we will invest in simplification next year will be in the first quarter first half.
But we dont give quarterly earnings guidance.
I understand that.
So Im not looking for specifics.
Im not off-base in my thinking right? Or is there something else that we should think about sort of the first half? I wouldnt read into it so much.
I dont think theres a specific profile.
And we expect a number of our businesses to be able to come out of the year and perform well in the first quarter.
Ill give you this much.
I think we certainly expect industrial segment earnings to grow in the first half.
Thats about as much as I can give you.
But were not giving quarterly guidance.
No I understand.
Thats helpful.
And I want to ask you about the simplification.
So we sold the three industrial businesses in the quarter.
Jeff Bornstein as youve kind of gotten into this with your team how would you kind of frame the outlook for cleanup within the industrial segments? Im not talking about maybe larger scale portfolio simplification down the road.
Or just what have you been uncovering and how that maybe dovetails into some of the restructuring that you guys have been taking in your outlook there? Well I think well continue to prune the portfolio where it makes sense.
And you know there will be more transactions in 2014.
I dont know that there will be certainly excluding NBCU the same order of magnitude economically as there was in 13.
This is an ongoing process and the businesses are going to continue to go through their portfolio and well continue to clean up where it doesnt make sense or where were not willing to invest or we dont see the growth there.
So that process will continue as we move through 2014.
Maybe one last one for me.
Just on the echo oil and gas on the drilling side the land-based side theres a fairly widely held view that WTI prices or certainly U.S.
oil prices could be actually heading lower.
One Im wondering have you seen any of this kind of reflected in Lufkins backlog your recent acquisition just because the prices of the oilfield service companies their share prices are down? And how do you guys maybe think about that because obviously youre building a long term business? Does this present opportunities actually for M&amp;A if in fact some of the public company share prices were well off? You could continue to consolidate some of these properties.
When I look globally and in the various segments in the oil and gas business kind of the drilling piece in North America probably has been the weakest as time goes on.
And if we see opportunities to do more work there were certainly going to do it because we think over the long term thats still a good place for us.
[Operator instructions.] Your next question will come from the line of Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Quick question on organic growth.
Youre exiting the year with a good clip at 5% orders were up 8% year to date.
But you take a look at your guidance for 2013 it looks like organic growth ended negative your guidance was closer to 2.
So my question is really around as you look into 14 what kind of confidence do you have in that 4% to 7% number based on what you already have in backlog? And what are the puts and takes to those numbers to the high end versus the low end of the range? I dont know Jeff if you went through the unit shipments year over year we basically havent backlogged.
You know Joe if you just look at that a big win backlog shipping more heavy duty gas turbines the jet engine backlog etc.
etc.
it kind of takes you to the 4% to 7% range.
The one thing thematically here we have a couple of unique things at GE or at least in the same company which is the GEnx story and the wind story are fairly unique to GE.
And thats a big part of pushing the range to 4% to 7%.
After that were somewhere around 3% to 5% which I dont think is off color.
Ill give you a sense of where we expect units for 2014.
Wind we think its going to be around 3 000 units versus 2 100 units in 13 gas turbines somewhere between 85 and 90 versus 81 in 13 locomotives will be between 550 and 600.
That will be down slightly.
Jet engines will be up as I just said around GEnx will be up to 2 500 units versus about 2 378 in 13.
And as I mentioned GEnx will be somewhere between 250 and 300 most of that growth versus 180.
Military is going to be a mix as it relates to aviation.
So that gives you a sense of kind of what were thinking on units.
I did mention earlier in the script that we do have a few areas of softness mining being one of them and our locomotives business.
Minings going to be we expect very soft on OHB in 2014.
And I would say on the services side we kind of end the year with the best philosophy we had during the year so thats the other piece of the equation.
One question on the gas turbine pricing pressure.
It looks like power and water pricing has been down now for two quarters in a row.
Can you just provide some color where youre seeing that regionally? So where are you seeing most of the pricing pressure today? The region mix is always a relatively big swing in the gas turbine side so theres a couple of big deals in Saudi that have been price competitive.
And its going to be a competitive market I think.
But were doing a good job on the cost side and like I said I think when we look out over 14 and into the future we still see heavy duty gas [unintelligible] equipment operating profit dollar growth in this time period.
I would just add to that if you look at quoting activity in the space around gas turbines the fourth quarter definitely the level of activity has picked up.
Were up like 96% versus fourth quarter 12 and 26 more projects quoting real time in the fourth quarter than a year ago.
And the bulk of that strength has really been in the U.S.
surprisingly and China.
So theres a lot of activity here.
I dont know that were necessarily calling a significant turn on gas turbine but theres definitely the activity and you saw the order performance with 65 units in the quarter 124 for the year and this quoting activity were hopeful.
And then just one last question.
You quantified the impact from the blade issue at $100 million for this quarter.
Have you quantified the potential impact on the margins for 14? I think what we said was we are not anticipating this being an issue for our framework for the entirety of 2014.
Your next question will come from the line of Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
First a clarification then a question.
In response to John Inchs question or the answer to it where you expect industrial earnings to go in the first half was that at the segment level or post the eliminations line that comment? I was talking about segment earnings.
And then just looking back at how 2013 transpired operating profit at the industrial segment level is up a little over $700 million but we had the $900 million value gap and the significant cost out.
So just wondering what pieces plug that difference.
If you go back to the [unintelligible] that Jeff did for the total year we spent a bit more in R&amp;D which partially offset that and then base inflation foreign exchange and other items we had volume down somewhat.
And we didnt repeat the two big deals I talked about in the fourth quarter year over year the Duarte deal in aviation and the Thomas deal in medical which on a year over year walk are material differences.
But we feel great about what the team is delivering around simplification and SG&amp;A cost out.
That value gap was real positive.
We expect it to be positive again not at the same levels but we expect it to contribute to margins in 14.
And your next question will come from the line of Shannon OCallaghan of Nomura.
Real estate the nonearnings jumped up like 6x this quarter.
Can you talk about whats going on there and where are we in terms of unrealized loss and what it means for the equity book in 14? Were executing a reclass in the quarter between our nonearnings calculation and the traditional industry calculation of nonaccrual.
And so its really just that.
When you go through the supplemental theres a really detailed note that walks exactly what the tradeoff is between cash basis and cost recovery of assets deemed nonaccrual and within nonaccrual nonearning.
And so you have a bump up in nonearning you have a big bump down in nonaccrual roughly $3 billion.
And it walks you through the pieces of it.
Theres no change whatsoever in terms of portfolio quality.
Its just how were characterizing between nonearning and nonaccrual and thats just to get us closer to an industry basis.
The second is on the real estate I think we ended the year at roughly about $2.1 billion embedded loss which is basically flat year over year.
The biggest change year over year is were at I think $1.1 billion roughly at the end of 13 as the 30 Rock transaction we did in the first quarter of 13 which was more than $1 billion pretax bumped that up a little bit.
Now having said that we sold things throughout the year theres both the gains and losses etc.
and we kind of find ourselves back at $2 billion.
But I think we feel great about where we are in that $14 billion portfolio and well continue to liquidate it down.
And so far anyway weve outperformed the embedded loss numbers weve been sharing with you for the last five years.
And then on pension where are you going to end up for 14 in terms of operating and nonoperating pension and funded status? We ended 13 at about 91% on the funded status.
The deficit in the principal pension plan was down just under $9 billion year over year driven by portfolio performance.
We were up 14.3% in terms of the earnings on pension assets and the discount rate was up to 485 basis points.
So that took the deficit down fairly substantially.
In terms of pension next year we expect pension in total as I shared with you guys to be down roughly $900 million next year.
A significant percentage of that will be in \non-op pension.
You know the operating pension benefit will be something south of $400 million but about in that range.
We need to kind of finalize exactly where all these year-end ending points how theyre going to play out in pension expense.
So we expect to be down about $900 million in total with a little less than 40% of that associated with operating pension.
The last question we have will come from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
I had one question in oil and gas again.
Measurement and control I think was the one piece of that you had high hopes for a year ago.
It fell short of those and it sounded like you thought it would come back in 14.
And now it sounds like youre a bit more circumspect.
So maybe if you could talk a little bit about measurement and control what are your current expectations there for this year? Were kind of expecting flattish maybe up marginally but nothing substantial.
But I think we showed you guys at the outlook meeting that we still expect strong top line and bottom line growth in oil and gas.
And thats reflective of measurement and control in the flattish range.
So thats kind of where we are.
I think its pretty consistent with what other people in the industry say as well.
But you dont anticipate a large wave of downstream projects in the U.S.
to push up orders there any time soon? Were hopeful but thats not the base plan.
The base plan is I would say kind of like that its bottomed and well see flattish kind of growth in 14 and were taking cost out and stuff like that.
And then just within healthcare most industrial markets and emerging markets have slowed over the last two years.
Healthcare has been an exception.
I guess your Q4 emerging markets growth numbers were not great or certainly lower than what you had seen in the last 12 months.
Is that anything you think to be concerned about? Is that maybe reflecting a lag versus broader economic slowdowns? Or do you think its a blip and healthcare in emerging markets should remain strong? You know we had a real strong fourth quarter in Russia last year and it was down substantially this year.
And net of that healthcare growth markets were still pretty good.
China was a little bit slower but not concerning.
And the other growth markets were pretty good.
Everybody I just want to say thanks to Trevor.
He did a great job.
Fantastic.
And I appreciate everybodys acknowledgement but Trevor fantastic for all of us.
Thanks for a great job.
And welcome to Matt.
And Trevors sprinting to the door guys.
So thanks for your great support of Trevor as well.
Thank you very much Jeff and thank everyone else for all the fun weve had together the last five and a half years.
And best of luck Matt.
I know youll love the job and do great.
The replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
Well be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today.
Our first quarter 2014 earnings webcast is on Thursday April 17.
And as always well be around to take your questions.
Thanks a lot.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Ellen.
I will be your conference coordinator today.
(Operator instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Ellen.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays first quarter webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued the press release and presentation earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; our Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein and our Vice President Subsea Systems Rod Christie.
We listened to your feedback and thought wed try something new.
To drive a more strategic discussion on the call well be inviting business leaders to participate to talk about their business markets new product introductions and major initiatives.
Weve asked Rod to join today to talk about Subsea.
Now Id like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Matt and good morning everybody.
The GE team had a good quarter and have also been improving environment.
The U.S gets a little bit better every day.
Europe is improving.
The growth markets continue to expand and will provide growth during the year even with volatility.
We had strength across most of our portfolio as global infrastructure markets remained solid.
We continued to benefit in energy oil and gas and aviation sectors and we saw some improvement in the demand for credit.
At the same time we encountered a few headwinds in the quarter.
Weather impacted our appliances business but improved in March.
Transportation was impacted by mining inventory corrections and the U.S healthcare market continued to experience volatility.
Some of this improved as the quarter progressed.
Our execution was strong.
Industrial segment growth was up 12% above our 10% goal.
Organic growth was up 8% above our 4% to 7% goal.
Margin growth was 50 basis points and were on track to meet our goal of 17% margins by 2016.
Our capital earnings and cash were in line with our expectations for the year.
We returned $2.4 billion to investors in dividends and buyback and announced $2 billion bolt-on acquisitions.
And finally we submitted our SEC filing Synchrony the RFS spinoff.
This is an important step as we head for our 70% industrial goal.
We delivered $0.33 of operating EPS at 9% excluding the impact of NBCU gains in 2013 restructuring.
This is the kind of quarter GE investors should like.
The environment was not perfect but we were able to deliver strong results due to the breadth of our portfolio.
Orders were flat overall.
Backlog grew to $245 billion and orders pricing was up 0.4 points.
While equipment orders can be lumpy service orders things like aviation spares tend to be a good gauge of the underlying economy and we saw broad strength in our service businesses with four of six segments up double digits.
Six of nine growth regions grew orders by double digits in the quarter.
Equipment orders were down in aviation and oil and gas versus tough comps in 2013.
We have a great backlog in position in each market and feel good about the long term growth.
In transportation we see a strengthening market for North American locomotives and we won a very large order for kits for South Africa.
I wanted to point out two other factors on orders.
First we see the pipeline building so we feel good about growth during the year.
And second we have grown backlog by $29 billion from the first quarter of 2013 with growth in every segment.
This fortifies our ability to hit goals this year and in the future.
The company executed well in the first quarter.
Industrial operating profit growth of 12% is a good start to the year.
Organic growth was up 8%.
Growth markets continue to provide momentum with five of nine up double digits and 7% growth overall.
We made great progress in services with aviation spares up 22% and 17 Advanced Gas Paths up from two last year.
Equipment revenue grew by 12%.
Our products are winning in the market with excellent growth in power oil and gas and aviation.
For instance we are well positioned throughout our gas turbine product line extending to the H turbine which has more than 61% efficiency and more than 400 megawatts of output.
Our Revolution CT just received FDA approval and should drive positive growth for the year.
Europe grew by 14% in the first quarter.
So were starting to get stabilization in that market as well.
Our target is to grow margins this year.
Were off to a good start.
This is our fourth consecutive quarter of expansion with 50 basis points of growth.
Were driving simplification throughout the company and our restructuring efforts are paying off.
We generated about $250 million of structural costs out of the quarter and value gap had a positive 50 basis point impact on margins.
Were gaining traction with our Fast Works initiative which is improving R&amp;D efficiency.
Mix was a headwind but our productivity programs more than offset.
Finally we expect broader business participation in the future Healthcare Energy Management and Appliances &amp; Lighting should have positive margin and operating profit expansion for the rest of 2014 based on improving markets and restructuring.
Our CFOA is off to a good start and on track for the year.
We generated $1.7 billion up from 4200 million from last year.
The company has substantial financial strength with $87 billion of consolidated cash and close to $12 billion at the Parent.
As you know we issued $3 billion of debt in the quarter.
GE Capital remains in great shape with a Tier 1 common ratio of 11.4%.
Meanwhile Commercial Paper was in a very low level of $25 billion.
The total ENI of $374 billion was down 7%.
Weve allocated capital in a disciplined and balanced way.
We continue to invest in plant and equipment to grow the company globally.
Our dividend is up 16% year-over-year.
We plan to reduce the float in 2014 and were on track to reduce share count to 9 million to 9.5 million shares by the end of 2015 including the retail spend.
We will continue to bolt-on acquisitions like the three we announced so far this year.
Our targets remain $1 billion to $4 billion but we have gone above on opportunistic deals that have excellent values strong synergies fit our growth strategies and are immediately accretive.
For instance Avio was above our range and accretive to investors.
At the same time we plan for about $4 billion of dispositions this year.
Now Ill turn it over to Rod Christie who runs our Subsea business as Matt said earlier.
We plan to review an important segment or initiative each quarter.
As the year goes on we plan to cover topics like heavy duty gas turbine technology Healthcare and Life Sciences China or other important operating initiatives or organic growth opportunities.
So now Ill turn it over to Rod.
Thanks Jeff.
So starting on the left side of the page I want to give you a flavor of how we see the long term prospect for oil and gas industry before we drill into the Subsea sector specifically.
The forecast is for global oil and gas demand to continue to grow through 2018 with oil mainly driven by the ongoing industrialization and emerging economies and the rise of living standards while gas emerges across mainly all of the economies as a cleaner fuel source.
In addition to the increasing demand the other dynamic to consider here is well decline rates on existing operations of around 3% to 4% onshore and 6% to 10% offshore.
The combination of both these factors makes ongoing investment necessary to develop new reserves and enhance the recovery in existing assets.
Moving to the top right of the page we see these dynamics driving 4% and 2% CAGRs in production rates for oil and gas respectively through 2018.
The expectation is for stronger growth in Subsea and unconventional production.
Translating all of this into total industry spend we expect to see continued growth as high NOCs and independents work to recover more hydrocarbons from existing assets and bring on new reserves to meet the growing demand.
With respect to Subsea sector the expectation for long term development of deep water reserves is supported by the robust activity we see in drilling in front end engineering design through the cycle.
Given this expectation our Subsea Systems business is well positioned to serve customers with both technology and life-of-field services across the globe.
Our extensive capabilities enable us to provide everything from discrete components to full Subsea production systems.
Were also uniquely placed against our competitors and that we can leverage technology from other GE businesses and run joint technology program specific to the critical need.
To give you a couple of examples here we cooperate with GEs monitoring and controls business in the area of Subsea integrity management and leverage their sensory and diagnostics technology specifically developed for our own space.
Were also running a joint technology program with GEs power conversion business for Subsea power and drive.
This really enables us to develop value added solutions under one roof wherever the core competency actually exists inside GE.
Likewise GE gives us the ability to scale up.
As many of you be aware localization is often a mandatory requirement on our industry.
When we move into new geographies its not unusual to find other GE businesses are already there.
Usually it is either Power and Water or another oil and gas business.
This means we can leverage their relationships their knowledge and potentially their footprint.
Additionally weve been working with GEs global growth and operation team to accelerate development in countries like Nigeria and Angola where we can benefit from their high level relationship and the back office support to get things up and running very quickly.
Today were present in all the major deep water basins around the world such as Brazil sub Saharan Africa Asia and Australia while still retaining significant capability around both the UK and Norwegian continental shell.
Our experience in extreme cold water and long step out capabilities for controls and propeller solutions position as well for future activity a sector thats going to require really no topsides and has the added complexity really of an icebound environment.
So three years ago a major Subsea industry survey took feedback from 135 customers and ranked each supplier against the top priorities of the subsea oil and gas operators.
The chart on the left of this page details how GE was rated against our competitors back in 2012.
As you can see we performed well in the key areas like EHS reliability and technology.
However we were mid pack when it came to on time delivery.
And in fact really none of the suppliers are performing consistently to acceptable level in this critical requirement.
This is one of the main risks to both the supplier and the customer in this industry.
And a significant number of large-scale Subsea developments experienced both schedule and cost overrun.
Given that he timing and carrying costs for initial CapEx outlay on these projects the key driver in overall returns we have focused investment to differentiate performance around cycle and on time delivery.
As of today we offer a suite of structured products that offer modular customization to our customers.
So let me expand a little bit on modularization.
What that really means is we can provide exactly what a customer wants.
So we do it with less engineering and less supply chain risk as we use a standard module to do so.
Weve also completed significant process reengineering to drive speed and transparency across our business operations.
Weve created a global project COE that interfaces directly through all of our sites and suppliers and supports our project teams wherever theyre operating in the world.
To underpin this weve also invested in an integrated IP infrastructure enables us to scale the organization though industry cycles without losing either capability or impacting our operational excellence.
The final piece of this jigsaw really has been the investments weve made in creating new capacity and unlocking latent capacity in a number of our factories.
Today using lean manufacturing disciplines weve increased capacity for trees controls well heads and manifolds.
In general weve been able to realize capacity increases between 30% and 100% in our existing facilities and have commissioned new capacity in Indonesia and Brazil.
And sure we feel were very well placed to take on new commitments.
Growth in the deep water oil and gas sector looks strong over the long term and we feel very confident about our competitiveness of both our existing product line and the technologies we have in development.
The investments weve made in capacity and capability also put us in a great position for our customer wherever they operate in the world.
Just to give you some context on the evolution of the Subsea System Business.
In 2011 we were executing a handful of small projects and two Subsea production EPC projects the largest of which was around $600 million.
Today were executing 8 EPC projects the largest of which exceeds $1.3 billion.
The programs weve undertaken to structure our products lean out supply chain and project operations are yielding results in cycle time reduction and cost reduction.
And we expect to see further benefits come from these as we drive these deeper into our business.
Just to give you some context here 1Q revenue we saw 37% increase year-over-year and a 3x increase in both margin and in rate.
On top of this our global footprint really makes us take local and capable in the main deep water basins today and GEs reach means we can move quickly and at scale in any of the developing geographies.
Overall we really feel very good about the fundamentals of this business and its -- really have to say that Im very excited about the way this moves in the future.
So with that Ill pass it over to Jeff.
Great.
Thanks Rod.
Im going to start with operations in the quarter then well move through the segments.
We had continuing operations revenues of $34.2 billion down 2% from the first quarter of 2013.
Industrial sales of $24 billion were up 8% and GE Capital revenues of $10.5 billion were down 8%.
Operating earnings of $3.3 billion were down 18% and operational earnings per share of $0.33 were down 15% principally driven by NBC as Jeff mentioned earlier.
On the next page Ill take you through more detail on the normalized EPS work versus last year.
Continuing EPS of $0.29 includes the impact of non-operating pensions and net earnings per share of $0.30 includes the impact of discontinued operations.
We had $12 million benefits in the quarter in discontinued operations with no material impact from WMC.
Pending claims at WMC declined to $4.5 billion reflecting $1.2 billion of resolutions with reserves declining in line with expectations.
New pending claims in the quarter were negligible.
As Jeff said first quarter CFOA was $1.7 billion with industrial cash flow of $1.2 billion and received 500 million of dividends in GE capital.
The GE tax rate for the quarter was 24% and the GE Capital rate was 9%.
For the year were still expecting the GE rate to be around 20% and the GE Capital rate to be in the single digits.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
And as Jeff mentioned performance was mixed by business but overall pretty good with industrial segment revenues up 8% and operating profit up 12%.
GE Capital earnings were flat in the quarter on lower assets.
Now Ill take you through the dynamics of each of the segments on the pages that follow.
And first on the other items page Ill start with adjusted EPS walk.
So last year as you recall we had operating EPS of $0.39 in the first quarter.
This included $0.10 of gains and income from NBC that was offset by $ 0.04 of industrial restructuring and other items.
We also had a $0.05 gain at GE Capital from the sale of 30 Rock that was offset by other charges as well.
That walk gets you to an adjusted operating EPS of $0.33 last year.
This quarter we had $0.03 of industrial restructuring and other items.
Making the same adjustment for 14 gets you the $0.36 and thats up 9% on an adjusted basis.
Thats how were thinking about operating performance in the quarter.
On the right side as I mentioned we had $0.03 of charges related to industrial restructuring other items as we continue to invest in simplification to improve the companys cost structure.
The spend was broad based with projects in every business and corporate.
Were executing more than 150 projects at average about a year and a half payback.
The projects relate to everything from manufacturing footprint reduction service shop consolidations SG&amp;A actions and exiting low margin product lines primarily in developed markets.
Were continuing to work through timing of European work council approvals.
And on the positive side some of the projects are coming in below our regional cost estimates with no downgrade in benefits.
For the year we still anticipate $1 billion to $1.5 billion of restructuring with about 60% of that in the first half.
And were still planning on delivering more than $1 billion industrial costs out for the year.
As we told you in November we expect to have some dispositions in our industrial portfolio in 2014 and were currently working on a transaction related to a non-core asset that may result in a small gain likely in the second quarter potentially in the third quarter.
Now Ill take you through each of the segments starting with Power and Water.
Orders of $5.7 billion were up 9%.
Equipment orders of $2.6 billion were down 3% driven by renewables down 13%.
That was partially offset by distributive power which was up 9% and thermal was up 3%.
Wind orders totaled 422 turbines versus 584 in the first quarter of 13.
Our view of wind orders for the year has not changed.
We still expect strong growth.
We took orders for 31 gas turbines in the first quarter of this year versus eight a year ago.
Service orders were $3.1 billion higher by 23%.
The growth was primarily driven by PGS up 32% up 43% ex Europe.
The business had orders for 17 EGPs versus two a year ago as well as a large $330 million upgrade order in Japan.
Europe continues to be very very soft.
Backlog in power and water continued to grow with equipment higher by 18% and services by 2% year-over-year.
OPI in the quarter was negative 40 basis points driven by equipment.
Revenue in the quarter of 5.5 billion was up 14%.
Equipment revenues were up 41% driven by wind shipments of 646 units 345 units higher than the first quarter of 2013 and thermal was up five gas turbines shipping 17 versus 12 a year ago.
We shipped all but one wind turbine associated with blade quality from the fourth quarter.
Service revenues were down 5% as AGP performance was offset by weakness in Euro.
Segment operating profit was 24% higher on strong volume and simplification benefits partly offset by negative mix associated with wind.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was down 9% year over year.
The wind blade quality issues in the quarter were negligible.
Margins expanded for the quarter 120 basis points.
Next is oil and gas.
Oil and gas orders for the quarter of $4.6 billion were down 5% with equipment orders down 17% and service growth of 11%.
Equipment orders were down versus tough comparison to last year when orders were up 24%.
Subsidy equipment was down 62% principally on timing.
As weve commented previously orders in oil gas tend to be very lumpy on a quarterly basis.
And as Rod shared with you we expect subsidy orders to be up double digits for the total year.
We continue to see good growth in Turbomachinery solutions up 16% in the quarter and two large wins in the US LNG space.
And Downstream technology was also strong up 48%.
Service orders of 2.2 billion were higher by 11% led by Turbomachinery up 22% and downstream technology solutions up 20%.
That was partly offset by MNC which was down 7%.
Backlog continues to grow in oil and gas with equipment up 15% and services up 4% versus prior year.
Orders pricing was better by 140 basis points in the quarter.
Revenue was up 27% up18% ex-Lufkin.
And subsidy was up 37% Turbomachinery up 25% downstream solutions up 24% and drilling and surface was up 13% while MNC was down 4%.
We expect MNC to be flat for the total year.
Operating profit was strong in the quarter up 37% up 28% ex-Lufkin.
The growth is driven by volume value gap base cost productivity in the absence of the FX charge we had last year in the first quarter.
This was partly offset by negative mix on lower MNC volume.
Our operating profit rate improved 80 basis points in the quarter both with and without Lufkin.
So turning to the next page on aviation just some context here.
Air travel continued to grow strongly.
Global revenue passenger kilometers grew 6.9% through February compared to 5.2% a year ago with a particular strength in the Middle East Asia Europe and China.
Through February freight growth was up 3.6% versus 1.4% a year ago and that growth was driven by Latin America Europe and the Middle East.
Orders in the quarter of $5.5 billion were down 17% as expected driven by equipment orders down 38% to $2.4 billion.
The first quarter of 2013 we had $1.4 billion of CFM LEAP launch orders and two large China G 90 orders.
Commercial engine backlog ended the quarter at $21 billion.
Thats 68% higher versus last year.
The military equipment orders of $421 million were up 44% driven by demand for CT7 engines.
Services orders were $3.1 billion up 10%.
And commercial service orders were up 12% driven by strong commercial spare parts up 17% to $29.7 million a day.
Military service orders were up 18% driven by spare parts up 19% on strong demand for T700 spares.
Orders pricing was strong at 2.6% for the quarter.
Revenue of $5.8 billion was up 14% up 10% ex Avio.
Equipment revenue was higher by 14% on strong price and shipments of 646 commercial engines versus 596 last year.
We shipped 70 GEnx engines versus 41 a year ago and military revenues were down 3% on 31 fewer engines in the quarter.
Service revenue $2.9 billion was up 14% driven by commercial up 18% and military down five.
Commercial spare shipments were $28.5 million a day.
That was up 22% versus last year.
Operating profit of $1.1 billion was up 19% 14% ex Avio on strong value gap in volume.
Margin rates improved 90 basis points 80 basis points ex Avio.
Avio continues to perform very well an overall good execution in the aviation business in the quarter.
Next on healthcare; the first quarter in the US was soft.
Hospitals and clinics appear to be delaying purchases and responses to the ACA.
Patient inflows outpatient visits ER surgeries procedures were all down 1% to 1.7% in a quarter.
Preliminary NEMA data suggests the U.S market was down single digits excluding one big VA bulk order from several years ago.
Our NEMA orders were down 2%.
So we believe we actually gained share in the quarter a point or two.
As a result of these dynamics healthcares first quarter was softer than we expected.
Orders of $4.2 billion were down 1% driven by the U.S down 4% offset by continued strength in emerging markets which were up 10%.
China was up 13% Latin America was up 10% and the Middle East was up 47%.
Europe was also strong up 4%.
Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were flat and HCS emerging market orders were higher by 13% offset by the U.S down 12%.
Life science orders were up 1% in the quarter.
Service orders were $1.9 billion and they were down 2% in the quarter.
First quarter backlog was $16.3 billion which was up 7% versus prior year and order pricing was down 1.5%.
Revenues of $4.2 billion were down 2% with equipment down 2% and services down 3%.
Operating profit of $570 million was down 4% driven by negative value gap offset by strong base course management.
SG&amp;A in our healthcare business was down 9% in the quarter.
The business expects the U.S softness to probably persist in the second quarter but expect to continue to gain share and deliver earnings growth through the year.
So with that well move to transportation.
Transportation had a solid execution quarter given their environment.
In terms of domestic activity car loads were up 1% in the first quarter driven by intermodal traffic which was higher by 3%.
Coal volume continues to be soft.
It was down 1% but petroleum products and petroleum were higher 6.5%.
Orders for the quarter were $2.4 billion.
That was up over 100% led by equipment orders up four times.
We had orders for 259 locos and 299 loco kits versus 80 locos last year and 25 kits a year ago.
We received a large order from South Africa for 233 kits and had order is for 176 locos in the U.S.
Service orders were down 18% due to weak mining and no repeat of the large Amtrak signaling order we had in the first quarter of last year.
Order price index was flat and backlog was 6% versus the first quarter of 13.
Revenues for the quarter were down 14% as we anticipated.
Equipment was down 20% driven by mining off-highway vehicles down 76% partly offset by locomotives up 23%.
We shipped 178 locos versus 143 a year ago.
Service was down 7% on weaker mining parts demand.
Op profit was down 24%.
Very strong cost and productivity performance was more than offset by volume and mix.
Margins were down 230 basis points in the quarter.
On energy management the business continues to be a work in progress.
We made a lot of gains in restructuring and resizing the business around its cost structure and footprint were offset by sales softness in marine startup execution.
Orders were $2.2 billion.
That was down 1%.
Digital energy was up 20% on a large domestic meter order and Industrial Solutions was up 1%.
This was offset by power conversion down 16% with no repeat of first quarter 13 Brazilian drillship orders we took.
The business did continue to build backlog in all its segments with a total up 17% year-over-year to $4.9 billion.
Revenue was down 4% in the quarter with digital energy down 20% industrial solutions down 3% and power conversion down 2%.
Operating profit was $5 million in the quarter.
Thats down from $15 million a year ago.
Despite the poor performance we continue to get restructuring benefits and reduce SG&amp;A cost.
This was more than offset by negative volume and execution challenges.
We expect this business to improve its results throughout the year particularly in the second half.
Appliances and Lighting; Appliances and Lighting had a challenging quarter as well.
Appliance revenues were down 3%.
The appliance market was down 4% through February but was much stronger in March to end the quarter flat year-over-year.
Housing stock stats were soft with single family down 8% offset by multi-family strength up 9%.
Lighting revenue was down 4%.
Our traditional channels in lighting were down 9% partially offset by LED growth up 33%.
Segment profit of $53 million was down 33% in the quarter.
Appliance op profit was down 2% with higher price offset by lower volume and negative productivity.
And lighting op profit was down 44% driven by strong material depletion more than offset by productivity price and foreign exchange.
For both businesses the last two weeks of March and the first week of April were much stronger.
We expect them to be back on track in the second quarter.
Next Ill cover GE Capital.
Revenue of $10.5 billion was down 8% primarily from non-repeat of the 30 Rock sale last year.
Assets were down 3% or $18 Billion year-over-year.
Net income of $1.9 billion was flat to prior year as lower losses and impairments offset reduced gains lower earning assets and tax benefits.
ENI ended the quarter at $374 billion.
It was down $28 billion or 7% from last year and down $7 billion sequentially.
Noncore ENI was down 16% to $52 billion versus last year.
Net interest margins decreased 11 basis points from 2013 to 4.9%.
This slight improvement in business margins was offset by the cost from carrying higher levels of cash.
GE Capitals liquidity and capital levels continued to get stronger.
We ended the quarter with $75 billion of cash and reduced our commercial paper borrowings to $25 billion in the first quarter.
Thats nine months ahead of our year-end target.
Our Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel 1 basis improved 23 basis points sequentially with 32 basis points year-over-year to end at 11.4%.
On the right side of the page asset quality trends continue to be stable.
Ill walk through the segment performances.
The commercial lending and leasing business ended the quarter with $175 billion of assets flat to last year.
On book core volume was $8 billion dollars down 2% as we continued to stay disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles with continued excess liquidity in the market.
New business returns remained reasonably strong at about 1.8% ROI.
Earnings of $564 million were up 42% as a result of not repeating the specific impairment we had last year in the first quarter as well as from asset sales.
The consumer segment ended the quarter with $132 billion of assets down 3% from last year.
But we were up 8% in North American retail finance business.
Earnings of $786 million were up 47% as a result of not repeating $300 million impact from the reserve modeling changes we implemented in the first quarter of 2013.
North American Retail Finance earned $590 million in the quarter.
Thats up 54% again largely driven by not repeating the reserving changes and on strong asset quotes of 8% year over year.
Real Estate had another solid quarter.
Assets at $38 billion went down 11% versus prior year and $1 billion dollar sequentially.
The equity book is down 29% from a year ago to $13 billion.
Net income of $239 million was down 65% primarily from not repeating the 30 Rock gain.
In the current quarter we sold 165 properties with a book value of $1 billion for about $117 million in gains.
The debt business earned $120 million in the quarter and originated almost $2 billion of volume at attractive ROIs.
In terms of verticals GECAS earned $352 million up 1% as higher core income offset the impact of lower assets which were down 8%.
New volume was $1.5 billion 36% higher year-over-year with very attractive returns north of 3% ROIs.
We ended the quarter with zero aircraft on the ground.
EFS had a solid quarter with earnings up 84% to $153 million driven by strong core income in gains partially offset by impairments.
The team continues to perform well here.
As we look forward to the second quarter we expect to run rate for GE Capital to be around $1.8 billion of earnings.
So with that Ill turn it back to Jeff.
Great Jeff.
Thanks.
Finally on the framework; look were reaffirming the framework for the year.
We feel good really about our progress on the industrial side and we think -- which you saw in the first quarter in terms of organic growth.
Solid organic growth and good margin expansion should continue in the second quarter and throughout the year.
Capital is on track for its plan and CFOA remains on track as well with the framework.
There is a lot going on in corporate and you understand our goals for restructuring.
Well give you frequent updates on our progress.
And look with underlying EPS up 9% in the quarter and strong industrial segment profit growth we think were off to a good start.
So Matt let me turn it back over to you and lets take some questions.
Thanks Jeff Jeff and Rod Ellen why dont we open it up for questions? (Operator instructions).
Our first question is from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
The 8% core growth is a pretty big number.
How do you think about the sustainability of those levels? It's probably about 2x the sector overall.
And then I want ask a follow-up on margins.
But let's just talk about core growth first.
Jeff you want to start? Yeah Listen I think were very happy with the level of growth in the quarter.
Reflects a lot of the order activity we had in 2013.
As we said the short cycle businesses were definitely impacted by weather in the first quarter.
We expect Industrial Solutions Appliances and Lighting to get better as we move in the second quarter in the year.
Were still on framework.
We expect organic growth for the year to be between 4% and 7% and I think were pleased that we are off to a strong start here.
Scott I would just add I think wind always adds a little bit of noise plus or minus around each quarter.
It was more on the plus side this quarter.
And like I said at the outlook meeting in December we have an internal plan that adds up to more than the range and thats how we run the businesses and thats -- I think we still believe in the framework for the year.
But we have an internal plan that adds up to more than that.
Okay fair enough.
50 bps of margins just back of the envelope 8% core growth should kind of get you there already.
But you also talked about having value gap and cost-out.
Is there any way to parse out the 50 bps and how you guys think about it via fixed-cost coverage from the volume leverage and the cost-out how (indiscernible) break down to the 50 bps? Mix was a bit of a head win for us in the quarter more than 100 basis points in the quarter.
Thats the strength and wind the strength you heard Rod talk about with 37% sales growth in Subsea while MNC volume was down 7%.
Mix for us in the quarter was about 100 or 120 basis points of headwind.
And that was offset with strong value gap a little bit of favorability in R&amp;D but principally by simplification.
We had 160 basis points of favorability and structural cost and getting at delivering on both the structural cost initiative and delivering on the restructuring investments weve made.
And that was partially offset by base cost inflation that generally reflects increases in salaries.
I think we feel very good about the construct in the quarter.
Its more or less how we thought about the year and what we described to you at yearend.
We know that we are going to grow equipment and revenue faster than services this year.
And so mix will be an item for the year.
We have to deliver on simplification overcome that and grow margins.
That's helpful.
Just a quick clarification guys.
I haven't heard you mention 8 series turbine in a long time.
Do you actually have a commercially viable product at this point? Yeah.
I think Scott this is  weve gotten a couple of commitments and were in the process of rolling that out as we speak.
We think this is going to be a great product at really a good time.
Perfect.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
The next question comes from Deane Dray with Citi research Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Jeff I was hoping you could expand on your comments on the bolt-on acquisition outlook.
You all have been operating on a self-imposed investor-friendly range of -- it was $1 billion to $3 billion and then got inched up for Avio $1 billion to $4 billion.
And you are clearly signaling a willingness to go a bit higher than that for the right acquisition.
That's the same language you used when you -- just before you got Avio.
So maybe you could expand for us; how much higher above $4 billion? What applications or markets look interesting? It likely sounds like you've got something close.
Yeah I wouldnt read too much into it Dean other than this is the way we answer the question typically from the standpoint of we do the vast majority of our acquisitions in that range.
People ask if you saw something that was strategic added to the growth rate bolt-on well priced secretive.
Would you go above that? And clearly when we did Avio that was $4.2 billion and we had one to three type of range.
Its typically the way we answer the question in investor meetings and at the outlook meetings and things like that.
Again I think we have discipline on capital allocation.
Were committed to dividend growth the buyback that we talked about but if we saw unique value in the marketplace like we did with Avio we would do transactions like that.
Great.
That makes lots of sense.
And then since we have Rod on the call today I would love to hear from you about -- if you could frame for us how much of the portfolio you have in place today.
The whole idea that GE was able to take a lot of the proceeds from NBC and very quickly add some strategic assets into Oil &amp; Gas and then you would stop and see how is the portfolio? Where are the gaps? From your perspective how much of your portfolio do you have today in order to be effective? Are you half? Do you have three-quarters? Im not asking you specific gaps but maybe just frame for us how complete the portfolio is.
Sure.
I think when I look at the portfolio that we had today for Subsea we feel very good about it.
We can compete pretty much anywhere that we choose to.
I think what youve seen over the last six months around us moving more into the Subsea power and processing really gives you an idea of the brands that we can bring from GE broadly.
So our conversion total machinery water realize its a step into those spaces.
So at this point in time I feel very good about where we are and anything going forward is really a discussion about internal versus external with a bit more scale.
So its really about timing.
So very similar to what Jeff had talked about with if we see something that looks very attractive to us then potentially but we dont feel like theres any major method in this point in time.
Great thank you.
The next question is from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning? Hey Steve.
How are you doing? Good.
Can you maybe just talk about -- you talked about the 50 bps continuing throughout the year.
Anything you guys have -- I guess every company has become kind of seasonal with bigger quarters in the back half of the year.
Anything lumpy in the second quarter that we need to be aware of whether it's timing of some of these Advanced Gas Path stuff or Wind that we have to consider when thinking about the second quarter? I dont think so Steve.
I dont think Jeff said he was carrying the 50 basis points all year but thank you for that.
Well have slightly higher restructuring charges in the second quarter.
I said were still on track for the 1 to 1.5 and were going to spend 60% of that spend on the first half of the year.
So the second quarter will be a little bit bigger than the first quarter.
We will ship more GEnx engines in the second quarter than we shipped in the first quarter.
But other than that not a lot of -- I did mention that were working on one disposition.
Not sure whether thats going to be second or third quarter quite yet but its not that a big a deal.
Other than that I dont have a lot of other items to call out for.
Okay.
And then just on the organic growth calc can we get the contribution from the deals and then ForEx or negative from ForEx for the quarter total deals revenue contribution and then ForEx? I know they are in the back of the supplement or whatever or in the press release but just the data.
Yeah.
Sure Steve.
Reported revenue up 8%.
Acquisitions added 2 points.
Dispositions had a 1.4 point impact but then foreign exchange was half a point and thats how you go from 8 to 8.
Okay.
All right.
That's great.
Thanks.
The next question is from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Jeff.
How you doing? Im doing great and you? Good.
Just a question on the industrial balance sheet I guess dovetailing with maybe opening the aperture a little bit on deals.
You did do the $3 billion debt raise on the industrial balance sheet.
How would you size that relative to the capacity that you have? You teased us a little bit in December with some juice there.
Is $3 billion the number or is it something larger than that? The $3 billion was in the context of the capital allocation plan that we put together for 2014.
And we saw the first quarter where markets was very opportunistic.
We issued the $3 billion.
We were immensely oversubscribed and were very pleased with the rates that we took the $3 billion at well inside on after tax basis our dividend yield.
Thats how we size it within the context of our capital allocation game plan for the year.
Were constantly reevaluating the capital allocation game plan with the team and the board and well continue to do that.
But thats roughly the comfortable number relative to the cost commitments to capital and everything? No.
It's the relevant comfortable number within the context of the capital allocation plan we pulled together for the year.
Okay.
And then can you just size for us the gains that you have in CLL and energy financial services? Yeah.
So CLL we did sell about 18 000 boxcars per diems meaning daily rental boxcars in the quarter that was worth a little north of $100 million.
We did sell some private equity investments that we do reasonably routinely and just a little bit of Volcker driven the first quarter.
That was a much smaller gain.
And then energy finance it's pretty routine for us.
We had about I dont know $150 million of gains associated with properties that we sold in energy finance in the first quarter.
Right thank you very much.
The next question is from John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Hey John.
Good morning guys.
Jeff could we flesh out a little bit of the playbook for energy the energy management business? It looks like you guys made a leadership change there.
How are you thinking about really just the portfolio? And maybe Jeff Bornstein youve gotten into further the restructuring how that kind of maybe compliments that segment or your focus on it just something that might provide us a little bit more color.
John heres the way I look at it.
First from a technical standpoint there are pieces of the energy management business that are great fits for the rest of the company like power conversion.
As Rod said thats a great complement to oil and gas and some of the things were doing.
So technically these are industries we understand and can compete in.
Our relevant competitors have margin rates that are 10% plus.
Some of thats scale and some of thats our own complexity.
What Jeff Bornstein said today is that were committed to restructure and thats going to provide some big margin lift in that business.
And then I just think we can execute better Mark Begor is a guy thats well known inside the company of being a great recruiter and an extremely experienced operator turn around guy and he is in place and were hiring people from the industry.
My intent is to run this business and make it better and make it accretive to investors and drive earnings in it.
Could there be a couple of segments in there that had long term fits for GE? Could be.
Well sort that out and be very tough minded about it but this segment can do better than what youre seeing right now.
And thats our commitment to you is to make it better both from a cost standpoint and from a market standpoint.
So just on that front Id just add that they actually -- you can't see it in the results yet.
It's getting eaten up in operations but we are making progress in restructuring.
We had close to a $25 million of benefits in restructuring in the first quarter and we expect that to accelerate throughout the year.
There is some progress here.
Our manufacturing delinquencies are down 50% versus yearend and so we are making progress.
I understand -- completely understand you can't see it in the results yet but our expectations are this business is going to improve dramatically from an operating earnings perspective over the balance of the year.
Okay.
That was my other part of the question here.
So sequential improvement and it sounds like Jeff Immelt theres no reason this business can't be running at double digit margins.
Is that fair? Look everybody -- I think John everybody else unlike our other businesses where our margins are ahead of our peers this is one where we trail our peers and we can do better.
Can I just ask about the Oil &amp; Gas business for a second? Theres a broad level of concern in the industry about flattish CapEx budgets for the integrateds and obviously just the global economy is still not particularly helpful.
Price of oil doesn't seem to be going anywhere.
Maybe you can provide a little bit more color given that you featured Oil &amp; Gas on the call.
How does that context of these big integrated companies with flat if not even maybe declining CapEx budgets how does that dovetail with your own business and why is your own business either more or less impervious to that? Rod why dont you take a crack? Sure.
I think -- and Im going to talk specifically about what Im seeing in Subsea today.
Really what I see is a lot more frontend engagement.
So customers arent -- the customers that Im talking to arent really looking at dialing back the number of projects.
Theyre looking at how do they get better capital efficiency.
So weve seen more frontend engagement around technology the selection of that technology configuration and how can we deploy with less risks shorter cycle and potentially at a lower cost.
So in many cases what I thought about with the structuring our product really played to that.
Weve taken cycle out which obviously means a shorter carrying period for any capital investment in the Subsea area from my perspective.
So I think most of the customers are looking to continue to drive as many of the projects as they can.
Its making it much easier for us from our point of view of actually early engagement early dialogue early engineering so we can take more risk out.
John can I -- Id add to that.
The reinforcement of the way we build our oil and gas business by really invest very specific segments that have faster growth rates than the industry itself.
Things like Subsea turbo machinery and the LNG train some of our downstream technologies.
We really are in the places where theres going to be a lot of capital continue to be spent.
Okay.
So looking at Shell's CapEx deployment is not really the correct proxy in other words is what you are saying? Exactly yeah.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from Julian Mitchel with the Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
I just had a couple of questions on the margin bridge.
I think firstly value gap was maybe what about a $100 million tailwind in Q1? Just wanted to check that.
And back in January you had talked about a $200 million tailwind for the year in value gap.
Is that still the case or have you updated those assumptions? No.
I think thats what we guided at yearend that we expected the value gap for the year to be $100 million to $200 million.
In the quarter youre not too far off the mark here in terms of value gap.
I think what youve got to bear in mind is within our value gap this quarter power and water was negative but not extraordinarily negative.
And we expect price particularly in thermal to be much tougher as we work through the backlog for the balance of the year.
So youre correct.
The framework was up to $200 million and youre not far off the mark on the impact in the quarter.
Okay.
And then just on the mix effect can you just remind us I guess what the view is now on wind deliveries for the year and how much more those are ramping up in the back half? Yeah.
So no change on the framework that I gave you at yearend on wind deliveries.
I said that wed do about 3 000 units and thats still what we expect to do.
In terms of first half second half its a little bit heavier weighted to the second half of the year.
Well do I dont know about 1 800 of those 3 000 in the third and fourth quarter.
Lastly just quickly and I guess for Jeff Immelt.
On the divestments in Industrial you talked a little bit about that in the slides.
Also in the annual report there was some kind of a commitment or comment around targeting a minimum 10% margin for the Industrial businesses.
I just wondered what -- was that equipment plus service combined and what the timeframe for that 10% minimum threshold was? Because I guess you have some businesses that have never been at 10%.
I think Julian what I would focus on is the $4 billion number.
I think its our expectation that -- were more active on the divestiture front this year and try to leave it at that.
We continue to be tough minded around the portfolio and I would expect our divestures to be a little bit more active this year than they were last.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Steve Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Just Rod while I've got you here -- and I really appreciate the focus in on the business unit during the call.
I guess one of the primary debates around Subsea is that production tree order trend starting to rise again in 2015.
You addressed your mixed benefit.
But this emerging capital discipline by the majors I guess is a real question of even in those more attractive sub segments to what extent do you think that risks the growth and to what extent also are you seeing the outlook for production tree pricing deteriorate in any way? If you look at the forecast this year for trees overall globally its down but you have to look at the mix between Brazil and the rest of the world.
Brazil is a large buy for a large commitment made for trees in 2013.
The rest of the world demand actually increases slightly year-over-year and then you see the total demand back up again or forecast to go back up again in 15.
But the other thing that you really see is the projects have got larger so things have got lumpier.
You look at the total number of projects that are going for development into the future theres less projects but more tree count per project.
So I think again the early engagement pre-feed activities and feed activities are really going to be critical to driving some of the efficiency in this area from capital deployment.
Okay.
And the pricing outlook for pricing? I think we still feel that pricing -- the demand for the future is still increasing.
So its really about delivery cycle at this point in time.
Okay.
On Healthcare the pricing in Healthcare.
I guess Jeff how should we think about this? Do you see this as any kind of structural change in the industry? Is this a function in the Americas in North America of the transition were all going through in hospitals? And can you maybe give us some color on how we should think about this? Steve I think thats a good question.
Id say first if you look outside the U.S the markets are all normal with Europe bouncing back and the growth markets still pretty strong.
I think its too soon to say on just the impact of the Affordable Care Act.
Theres just so damn much going on in the U.S healthcare market right now.
Were thinking about the next couple of years as being flood to up slightly.
So we are not really thinking much about robust growth and more industry consolidation of hospital systems more integration between insurers and hospitals.
So theres just a ton going on in the industry.
At the same time when you launch a new product like the Revolution CT like were launching in the second quarter its going to build a huge backlog.
Its going to have positive growth.
And so with all the stuff thats going on in the industry when you have new technology you still can differentiate yourself and you still get good growth and good margins.
I think were just wait and see and watch how the industry evolves.
Okay.
And I can I just sneak one in for Jeff Bornstein? Or maybe its two I suppose.
But this tax rate that we got this quarter should we think about that us more normalized now? And also were the orders -- have those Algerian orders come through yet in the official order numbers? Yes.
The tax rate -- I think what I said was we still expect the industrials tax rate to be about 20% and we still expect the GE Capital tax rate to be single digits in the year.
I dont think our view of taxes has changed at all for the total year.
The Algerian units and the mega deal are in our orders book.
But I think Steve if you look at heavy duty gas turbine orders I think we said in December what 125 or something like that.
I think we are tracking at least to that.
This is a slightly improving market is what I would say broadly speaking.
I want to clear up one thing before we move on to the next question.
On energy financing I think Jeff Sprague asked me on gains and energy finance.
I think I said 150.
It was 120.
Thats about 60 higher year over year.
That was partly offset by about $100 million of increased higher requirements this year versus last year so I just wanted to make sure that was clear.
We know everyone has a busy morning.
Ellen why dont we take one more question? Thank you.
Our final question comes from Nigel Cole with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Good morning and thanks for fitting me in.
Jeff you mentioned the H frame which is obviously a very important product.
You mentioned two commitments.
Were they US commitments? And then dovetailing on the back of your comments about a gradually improving market what are you seeing in the US right now in terms of the front-log for 2015 and 2016? The answer I think to the first question is No and the answer to the second question I think is just slow improvement in the US starting with Peakers.
We havent seen big demand for base load units yet but a ton more interest in the US than weve seen in the last few years.
Thats the way I would describe it Nigel.
Okay.
Okay great.
Moving on to GECAS assets are down by about 10% from early last year.
And Im wondering; what do you think is the right level for assets in GECAS? Is there a longer tail of decapitalization within GECAS going forward? The GECAS business order magnitude is roughly the size over to the context of GE capital and company but its probably going to be long-term plus or minus.
Theyll continue to originate theyll continue to grow.
I talked about their volume in the first quarter being very strong year over year at very attractive returns so theyll continue to be very active and write new business.
At the same time theyll continue to prune the portfolio they have and that allows them it creates the capacity for them to continue to be in the market and right volume.
Assets year over year I think were flat for GECAS so I think theyre down 8% year over year but I can check that.
Then just Jeff on the -- you mentioned $1.8 billion run rate for GE Capital for the quarter going forward.
That is actually slightly above the $7 billion placeholder for the year.
Do you think there is more of an upside bias to that $7 billion at this stage? were still planning on doing the initial IPO of retail so you lose 20% of those earnings.
Well still continue to invest in that business to create the stand along capability around risk and governance.
That will come at some cost.
Well still do the GECAS iron fervency are in the third quarter.
I think that were still focused on the $7 billion framework that Keith shared with you in November.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Great.
Thanks thanks everybody.
Thank you.
The replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
Well be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital later today.
I have some announcements regarding upcoming investor events.
Next Wednesday April 23 is our 2014 annual share owners meeting in Chicago.
We hope to see you there.
On Wednesday may 21 Jeff Immelt will present the 2014 EPG conference and finally our second quarter 2014 earnings webcast will be on Friday July 18.
As always well be available today to take questions.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Christine and I will be your conference coordinator today.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Christine.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host today second quarter webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued the press release presentation and GE supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; our Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein and our Vice President Power and Water Steve Bolze.
Weve asked Steve to join today to talk about the Alstom deal.
Now Id like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Great Matt thanks good morning everyone.
GE had a good quarter in a generally improving environment.
We saw a solid economic growth across most of our segments.
Some economic indicators are really quite strong like rail loadings revenue passenger miles demand for commercial credit and appliance market strengthened during the quarter.
Global markets were also generally positive.
GE ended the quarter with a record backlog of $246 billion.
A particular highlight was the payback of our investments in technology.
We recorded $36 billion of wins at the Farnborough Airshow transportation is prospering because of our commitments to push ahead with the Tier 4 locomotives healthcare is gaining share behind several big product launches in oil and gas the same broad interest to new subsea innovations.
There are still a few tough markets like U.S.
healthcare and mining but the economic trend is positive.
At the half execution is in line with our key goals industrial segment growth is up 10% with 6% organic revenue growth and margin expansion of 30 basis points.
We're on track for $7 billion of capital earnings with the $3 billion dividend capital allocation remains balanced and discipline we've returned $5.9 billion to investors through dividends and buyback we're improving the GE portfolio as well.
The Alstom acquisition will generate attractive growth and returns while helping GE to accelerate our achievement of 75% industrial earnings.
Retail finance remains on track for an IPO by the end of July.
The GE team is executing both operationally and strategically.
Orders grew by 4% with slightly positive pricing backlog is at a record high as I said of $246 billion up $23 billion from last year.
This was the strongest service performance in several years with growth of 14% aviation spares grew by 16% and power gen services grew by 13%.
Most of our service businesses are expanding.
Transportation orders were up close to 40% overall and we positioned the business to succeed in the future.
We experienced some equipment order push outs particularly in wind and oil and gas and subsea however our rolling four quarter equipment growth is up 7% and growth markets remain a highlight with 14% order expansion and growth in six of nine regions.
Our orders and backlog give us confidence in the second half and 2015.
Our operating execution was good we have 7% revenue growth in the quarter with 20 basis points of margin expansion.
We are gaining share.
Farnborough made a statement about GEs position in aviation with $36 billion in wins.
We won nearly 90% of all next gen narrow body announcements.
As was reported earlier in the week GE remained substantially ahead on the Tier 4 locomotive.
We have 264 Tier 4 locos in backlog for 2015 and 16 with more on the way and this was zero in the first quarter so our momentum is growing.
We have nine high efficiency large block H turbines in backlog with many more in the pipeline.
In oil and gas we sold the first 20k-psi drilling system to Maersk.
We have $55 million backlog for the industry leading Revolution CT scanner.
For the quarter equipment revenue grew by 8% and service revenue grew by 5% and six of nine growth regions expanded in the quarter.
In addition a few of our adjacencies are performing quite well.
Life Sciences had order growth of 10% while Water grew by 11% and we now expect $1.3 billion of productivity revenue for 14 slightly ahead of our operating plan.
Simplification and value gap continue to drive margins; we are reducing the structural cost of GE.
For the year simplification value gap and R&amp;D efficiency should continue to be positive.
In addition we saw nice margin turnaround in energy management and appliances and lighting while transportation and health care are growing margins despite tough markets.
We will continue to be negatively impacted by equipment mix for the year but we are on track for solid margin improvement in 2014 overall with expansion in most of our businesses.
And in the quarter six of our seven industrial segments had earnings growth.
So really a good execution quarter.
Our capital allocation is in line with plan.
Total CFOA is $3.4 billion down 9% year-to-date industrial CFOA is above last years total but below if you add back the impact of the NBCU taxes last year.
CFOA is impacted by timing and long cycle orders in wind driven by the lack of PTC clarity and in oil and gas.
Additionally we have more inventory for second half shipments given the substantially higher organic revenue growth we expect in 2014 versus 2013.
We'll see strong improvement in working capital in the third quarter and second half.
As previously communicated we expect the capital dividend to be about $3 billion in 2014.
We ended the quarter with $87 billion of cash and we expect CFOA for 2014 to be in the $14 billion to $17 billion range as outlined in our 2014 framework.
We have a similar first half second half profile that we had in 13.
Capital allocation continues to be disciplined and balanced.
We have raised the dividend by 16% for 14; we have filed the red herring for RFS today targeting a late July IPO.
And this should raise roughly $3.1 billion at the midpoint price for 15% of the company.
And we are targeting $4 billion of dispositions for the year.
In an important move for GE the Alstom deal is announced and signed targeting a 2015 close.
This is an exciting opportunity for GE and our investors.
By 2016 we expect this will add $0.06 to $0.09 per share and allow the company to have 75% of our earnings from industrial.
The synergies and returns are excellent.
And Steve Bolze is here this morning to give you an update on Alstom.
So let me turn it over to Steve.
Thanks Jeff.
We've had a lot going on with respect to the Alstom transaction.
And I wanted to update you on the deal our revised structure and our execution plans.
As you recall from our initial announcement on April 30th the acquisition of Alstom's power and grid businesses would represent a largest single acquisition in GE's history.
At the time we said it was subject to several reviews including our discussions with the French government.
Those discussions have led now to our revised offer.
We are happy with the outcome and have the unanimous recommendation of the Alstom Board and the endorsement of the French government.
A key point that I would like to stress is the deal economics remain the same and the price did not go up.
Our deal is $13.5 billion of enterprise value at 7.9 times EBITDA and Alstom still retains its transport business.
We have however revised the initial deal structure in payment terms.
We will be selling our signaling business to Alstom transport and creating three joint ventures.
GE will have operational control in these joint ventures and Alstom will be investing about $3.5 billion for its stakes.
I will give further details on the ventures in a moment.
Although the structure has been modified our strategic rationale has not changed.
The power sector is core to GEs future and it has excellent long-term growth prospects.
Alstom Power and Grid are businesses we know and like and are being acquired at a good time in the cycle.
What we like the most about Alstom is it complements us in technology geography and they have great talent.
It brings us broader scope and power a larger installed base for services growth and larger presence in emerging markets.
Together with GE this creates opportunities to improve our combined performance and its in our sweet spot.
Also we continue to see good cost synergy opportunities and our plans remain intact.
Overall this is an attractive investment in a core business which expands our competitive capabilities and is accretive to GE earnings in year one with high teens IRR.
On the next page I want to ground you on the new deal structure.
First the changes do not impact the core businesses which are Alstoms thermal assets.
We will still own close to 100% of Alstoms gas and steam equipment and service businesses.
About 86% of our synergies are in these businesses.
With respect to the joint ventures Alstom will be the investor but GE will have operational control and we still have clear visibility to the remaining synergies.
The first JV is renewables.
Its made up of Alstoms offshore wind and leading hydro business as well as some of thier new renewable technologies.
GE and Alstom will each own 50% of this joint venture onshore wind from Alstom will go directly into GE at 100%.
The second JV is the combination of GE's digital energy business and Alstoms grid business.
GE and Alstom will each own 50% of the joint venture.
And the third joint venture is global nuclear and French steam.
We knew all along that with the majority of electricity generation in France being from nuclear power there would be nuclear sovereignty issues.
This venture includes Alstoms production and servicing equipment for conventional island of nuclear power plants and development in sales of related new equipment globally.
It also includes Alstoms steam turbine equipment and servicing applications for France.
In this joint venture GE will own 80% of the economics and Alstom 20%.
But Alstom will still have 50% of the voting interests.
The sovereignty issues are address through a preferred share held by the French State with certain governance rights.
In each JV GE has control will appoint the CEO and expects to consolidate.
Alstom will have standard minority governance rights and will have put options with the minimum four value at the fine time.
These joint ventures will not impact or ability to achieve our synergies.
On top of these ventures one additional transaction that we agreed to sell our signaling business a part of GE transportation.
It's a good deal for both parties.
We got a good price rate a market multiple and it is a business that will do better as part of a larger signaling business that Alstom has.
In addition to that we will enter into a collaboration agreement for both services and commercial activities that should make both GE and Alstoms transportation businesses more successful.
As for our presence in France and Europe after Alstoms businesses join the GE family we expect to have over 100 000 employees in Europe.
We have agreed to add 1 000 new jobs in France have factored this commitment into our financial plans.
In addition we have committed to keeping grid hydro offshore wind and stream turbine headquarters in France.
In summary the dealer returns remain unchanged there will be 3.5 billion less cash invested upfront and a $0.01 to $0.02 reduction in EPS accretion.
So now lets look at our plans for execution.
We still see 300 million in year one synergies growing to 1.2 billion in year five.
We expect to realize 80% of the 1.2 billion in synergies by the third year.
There are four main categories for synergies the first is optimizing the manufacturing and services footprints.
The combined businesses have 16 major manufacturing sites and many more feeder sites.
And about 70 service sites across the globe.
We estimate roughly 400 million of our savings here over the period.
Second leveraging the combined sourcing by to increase productivity we have approximately 5 billion in common spend that we believe we can realize about 5% savings on.
This is very consistent with our experience when we bought EGT from Alstom in 1999.
The third area is combining our R&amp;D efforts across the product lines then lastly by consolidating supporting functions across SG&amp;A we see the ability to get about 10% synergy here across the combined businesses.
We expect to spend approximately 900 million over the first five years to realize the 1.2 billion of cost savings.
Beyond the $1.2 billion we have assumed some modest revenue synergies but see the potential for more upside.
The teams have started to work to develop these additional growth opportunities.
The current plan should drive $0.06 to $09 of EPS accretion in 2016 assuming a mid 2015 close.
We have now kicked off for integration planning with Alstom so we can hit the ground running when the approval process is complete.
This will be a broad GE effort spanning many parts of the company.
We have appointed Mark Hutchinson our overall GE integration leader.
Mark is a GE officer with broad global experience and was most recently our CEO of China.
We have formed a joint GE Alstom steering committee and had our first meeting last week in Paris.
From here the process for closing will include works council consultations Alstom shareholder approval and customary regulatory reviews driving an expected closing in mid 2015.
Overall we are excited about the acquisition.
We are confident in our ability to execute and we have a proven and experienced integration team now in place to ensure success.
With that I want to hand it over to Jeff Bornstein.
Thanks Steve.
Ill start with the second quarter summary here.
We had revenues of $36.2 billion up 3% from the second quarter of 2013.
Industrial sales of $26.2 billion were up 7% and GE Capital revenues of $10.2 billion were down 6%.
Operating earnings of $3.9 billion were up 7% and operating earnings per share of $0.39 were up 8%.
Continuing the EPS of $0.35 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations.
We had $41 million charge in the quarter in discops primarily $30 million from WMC.
WMC pending claims were down $700 million in the quarter and litigation claims were $1.3 billion higher.
Reserves of $550 million are essentially flat versus the prior quarter with the slightly higher coverage of potential losses.
As Jeff said CFOA year-to-date was $3.4 billion.
We added industrial CFOA of $2 billion and received $1.4 billion of dividends from GE Capital.
Industrial CFOA was up 12% reported and down 41% excluding the impact of 2013 MBCU tax payments.
This is driven by timing of orders and inventory build and was still on track for the $14 billion to $17 billion CFOA range that we guided for the year.
The GE tax rate for the quarter was 19% up from 17% last year bringing the year-to-date rate to 21%.
As previously communicated we expect the full year industrial rate to be above 20%.
The GE Capital tax rate of a negative 13% was principally driven by the announced consumer Nordics disposition.
The tax benefits from this transaction are anticipated to be higher than what we had planned for and with that we now expect a low single-digit tax rate for the full year.
We recorded roughly $260 million of tax benefits in the second quarter to bring the year-to-date rate in line with the expected lower full year rate.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Strong top-line growth of the industrial segments revenues up 7% and operating profit growth up 9%.
GE Capital earnings were down 5% in the quarter on lower assets.
Per our previous communication the GE Capital results now include the impact of preferred stock dividends.
For the quarter that was approximately a $160 million versus a $135 million in 2Q 13.
Ill cover the dynamics of each of the segments on the following pages.
First Ill cover other items for the quarter.
We had $0.03 of restructuring and other charges at corporate about $0.02 of that related to ongoing industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to invest in simplification to improve the industrial cost structure.
The spend was broad-based with projects in every business in corporate.
We were executing on approximately 145 projects that average a year and half payback.
We also had a $0.01 one-time charge related to the write-off of an asset in our consolidated nuclear joint venture.
We took 51% of the impact related to that write-off and our partners took the remainder.
Offsetting the restructuring we booked a gain related to the disposition of Wayne fuel dispensers business in oil and gas.
We recorded a pre-tax gain at corporate of $90 million related to that transaction.
The net impact of these two items was a $0.02 charge.
So to give some context the gain came in about a $100 million lower than expected.
Our restructuring spend of $300 million pre-tax also came in about a $100 million lower than planned.
This was due to lower spend of about $70 million needed to execute the existing projects and some delays attributable to works councils for roughly $35 million.
In addition to the ongoing restructuring spend we had the one-time charge related to the nuclear asset write-off.
So restructuring and other charges net gains of $0.02 ended up being a higher expense that we planned in the quarter.
Now Ill take you through the segment starting with Power and Water.
Orders of $6.3 billion were up 6% equipment orders were down 1% with distributive power down 32% thermal down 9% and renewables up 60%.
The decrease in distributive power was attributable to the timing of orders in the emerging markets that we expect to close in the second half.
Thermal orders were lower on gas turbine orders 10 versus 24 a year ago partially offset by more BOP orders for balance plan.
First half gas turbine orders were 41 versus 32 a year ago.
No change to our framework for a 125 gas turbine orders for the year.
In the second quarter we booked our first [H] gas turbine order for cogen application in Russia but we expect to ship that unit in 2015.
Service orders were up 12% driven by PGS up 13% and strong demand for upgrades and parts.
We expect a reasonably strong transactional outage season in the second half of the year.
We booked 19 AGPs in the quarter versus 12 a year ago.
Revenue in the quarter was higher by 10% to 6.3 billion growth was driven by equipment up 20% and services up 2%.
Equipment revenue was driven by thermal up 38% on two more gas turbines versus last year and higher BOP up 38%.
Wind equipment revenues were up 30% with 159 more wind turbines year-over-year.
Thermal and wind growth was partly offset by lower distributed power growth which shipped 41 units this year versus 55 a year ago.
Our profit of 1.1 billion was up 4% driven by volume and simplification benefits offset by negative mix principally higher BOP and wind shipments.
Product line mix was 2.4 points of a margin drag in the quarter.
SG&amp;A was down 7% in the quarter.
Our outlook for the business for the total year has not changed.
At the moment we are likely to be stronger on AGPs than we planned but may see some distributed power volume push.
Gas and wind turbines remain within the framework we have shared with you.
Now for oil and gas orders were up 5% in the quarter to 5.3 billion equipment orders were down 9% versus a very strong second quarter in 13 when equipment was up 42%.
Turbomachinery was down 42% versus up 74% last year.
Subsea was down 44% versus up 30% a year ago.
Downstream technology up 85% on strong petrochemical demand and drilling and service up 55% were strong in the quarter.
Drilling received a large order for our new 20 000 PSI drilling system the first in the industry for Maersk and BP.
The 20 000 PSI capability makes ultradeep offshore drilling possible in areas unavailable today.
So we're quite excited about the progress there.
Service orders are strong up 23% with Turbomachinery higher by 49% on increased upgrades insulations and transactional services.
Downstream technology was up 35% and MNC was up 1%.
MNC was up 19% excluding the impact of the [Wayne and Santis] dispositions.
Revenues of $4.8 billion were up 20% by equipment strength up 29% with subsea up 51% and Turbomachinery up 15%.
Service revenues were higher by 11% versus the second quarter of last year.
Operating profit was up 25% on higher volume positive value gap and strong productivity offset partially by negative mix from subsea growth.
Margin rates in the quarter improved 50 basis points.
On the next page Aviation.
Demand for travel continued its strong growth year-to-date May.
Revenue passenger kilometers globally were up 6.2% with strength across all regions.
Freight grew 4.4% May year-to-day.
Orders in aviation were up 1% with equipment down 8% driven as we expected by commercial engine is down 27% our lowest CFM orders in a non-repeated the FedEx CF6 order from last year.
This was partially offset by stronger international military orders.
Service orders were 13% higher with spare parts orders -- the spare parts orders rate up 16% to $28.4 million a day.
As Jeff mentioned at the Farnborough Airshow we won 312 LEAP engines on the Boeing bags.
We also won 520 LEAP engines on the Airbus A320neo versus a 100 to the competition.
For the A320neo program to-date we've won 54% of the engines.
And in 2015 year-to-day the LEAP is on 67% of the engines on the A320neo.
Overall since the launch the LEAP engine has won 77% of all narrow body competitions.
Operationally in the quarter revenues were higher by 15% equipment revenues were also up 15% driven by commercial engines up 14% and military engines up 3%.
We shipped 75 GEnx engines versus 33 a year ago in the quarter.
Services revenue was up 15% with strength in commercial services partly offset by military services.
Operating profit in the quarter was 12% driven by higher volume positive value gap offset by negative mix associated with the GEnx shipments and higher R&amp;D spend in the quarter.
Operating profit margins of 19.7% was down 40 basis points in the quarter.
Through the half margins are up 20 basis points.
Overall Dave George and the aviation team continues to execute and win and we expect the technology investments weve made and continue to make will sustain the momentum.
Next healthcare.
Healthcare in the second quarter was again soft in the U.S.
as we expected.
In-patient volumes were weak which in conjunction with increased consumer resume and the changes in the Healthcare Law appear to be causing hospitals and the clinics continue to be cautious on the new investments.
Orders for the business of $4.8 billion were flat with emerging markets up 7% led by Latin America up 12% and China up 12% offset by the U.S.
down 2%.
Equipment orders were flat with HCS down 4% offset partially by life sciences up 23% up 5% organically.
Service orders were up 1%.
Backlog of $16.6 billion was 6% higher than a year ago.
Revenues were flat with developed markets down 2% and emerging markets up 7% with strength in China Latin America and the Middle East.
Operating profit was up 1% with strong cars productivity offset by negative value gap and FX.
SG&amp;A ex acquisitions was down 8% in the second quarter.
Our profit margins improved 10 basis points up 60 basis points organically.
For the second half we expect the market dynamics to be similar to the first half with weakness in the U.S.
but continued growth in life sciences and the growth regions.
The business will continue to deliver on remaking the cost structure.
And we expect that healthcare will grow earnings single-digits for the year.
Next talk about transportation the transportation team continues to execute well in a pretty tough environment.
Domestic activity continues to improve though carloads in the U.S.
were up 4% for the first half driven by intermodal petroleum and a very strong grain shipments and even coal saw 30 basis points of growth as post winter stockpiles a replenished.
Higher volume in conjunction with the first quarter whether effect have impacted velocity on the lines.
As a result part locos are at their lowest levels since 2007 2008.
We have seen increased orders activity in locos.
At the beginning of the year we communicated that we expected to ship about 600 units in '14.
We now expect that that shipment number to be closer to 750 plus.
Balancing that mining volume for both units and parts are week.
We guided an expectation of being down almost 50% in 2014 versus '13 and now expect mining to be slightly weaker than that.
Orders for the quarter were up 35% with equipment growth of 40% and service growth of 32%.
Equipment strength was driven by North American locomotives including our first order for 39 Tier 4 locos for delivery in 2015.
Service orders were driven by locomotive parts and $125 million signaling went in Singapore.
Backlog of 15.9 billion grew 13% from the second quarter of last year driven by equipment up 51%.
Revenues in the quarter were down 18% equipment was down driven by mining down 43% and lower loco and kit deliveries.
Service revenue was down on weak mining parts partially offset by core services and loco parts.
Our profit down 14% was driven by lower volume partially offset by positive value gap and cost out.
SG&amp;A was down 14% in the quarter.
Operating margins improved 110 basis points on strong cost management.
Our total year expectations for transportation remain intact with better locomotive demand and deliveries offsetting slightly worse mining experience and the 50% down we expected.
We feel good about our momentum on locomotives and are experiencing high utilization of our plants in 2014.
Based on the first of market Tier 4 solution and improved rail volumes we are optimistic that customers will continue to place orders in and for 2015.
Now energy management the business took a couple of steps forward in the quarter but still remains very much a work in progress.
Orders were down 14% in the quarter partly driven by no repeat of the big ComEd meter order last year in digital energy.
As a result digital energy orders were down 32% but up 26% excluding the ComEd order.
Industrial solution was down 8% on slow demand in North America and the exit as part of restructuring of seven subscale international platforms.
Power conversion saw a number of marine orders push into second half.
Backlog continues to grow up 12% year-over-year.
Revenue in the quarter was down 6%.
Our profit more than doubled from last year to $69 million and margin rates improved to [$110] basis points.
The team is doing a great job executing the restructuring strategies including reducing rooftops by 40% simplifying their product structures and realigning their SG&amp;A functions.
Restructuring benefits are delivering productivity that more than offsets the negative volume.
We expect energy management to continue its improvement trajectory.
Appliances core industry was up 5% the second quarter with contract up 8% and retail up 4%.
Housing starts rebounded up 9% helping volumes in the quarter and single family starts grew 5% multifamily starts grew 18% in the quarter.
Revenue in the quarter was flat with appliances flat and lighting down 1% Appliance revenue was down 1 point on volume but up 1 point on price.
We read a number of promotional events that drove improvement during the quarter with revenue down 5% in April up 1% in May and up 5% in June.
So the trajectory is correct.
Lighting revenue was down 1% with strong LED growth of 50% offset by 9% down on traditional products as retails continue to bleed off incandescent inventories.
Op profit of $102 million was up 23% on positive value gap and productivity.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was down 4% and op profit rate improved 90 basis points in the quarter.
Next is GE Capital.
Revenue of $10.2 billion was down 6% primarily from lower assets and lower gains.
Assets were down 2% or $10 billion year-over-year.
GE Capital's net income of $1.7 billion which includes $161 million of preferred dividend payment was down 5% on a comparable basis as impact from lower earning assets and gains more than offset lower losses marks and impairments and higher tax benefits.
E&amp;I of $371 billion was down $19 billion or 5% from last year and down $2 billion sequentially.
Non-core E&amp;I was down 15% to $51 billion versus last year.
Net interest margins in the quarter of 5% were essentially flat.
GE Capital's liquidity and capital levels continue to be strong.
We ended the quarter with $76 billion of cash and Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel 1 basis improved 28 basis points sequentially and 51 basis points year-over-year to 11.7%.
On the right side of the page asset quality trends continue to be stable the only exception being the seasonality we expect in UK mortgage but delinquencies in UK mortgage portfolio are actually down a 160 basis points year-over-year.
Now to walk through each of the segments.
In CLL commercial lending and leasing business ended the quarter with $174 billion of assets flat to last year.
On book core volume was $11 billion down 3% driven by the Americas which was down 4%.
But we do see pockets of strength in the U.S.
largely in equipment financing with our transportation business up 25% vendor equipment leasing up 7% and our fleet business up 6%.
Volume in CLL international was up 3%.
The team is staying disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles and the new business returns were about 1.8% roughly in line with the first quarter.
Earnings of $541 million were down 34% driven by lower tax benefits from the non-repeat of last years fleet candidate disposition and tax benefits we had in Europe as well as lower assets.
These were partially offset by improvement in losses marks and impairments.
The consumer segment ended the quarter with a $135 billion of assets flat to last year.
Earnings of $472 million were down 43% driven by lower international assets which were down 12% year-over-year including the impacts of the Swiss IPO and BAY Thailand sale.
In the current quarter we also recorded roughly $85 million of after tax loss provisions as a result of recent legislation on consumer pricing in Hungary.
North American retail finance earned $512 million in the quarter down 9% driven by continued investment in its standalone capabilities partially offset by 9% growth in its earning assets.
Real-estate assets of $37 billion were down 11% versus prior year and down $1 billion sequentially.
The equity book is down 26% from a year ago to 13 billion.
Net income of 289 million was down 34% primarily from lower level of tax benefits and gains.
In the current quarter we saw 52 properties for the book value were above $420 million for $137 million in gain that's down $65 million from last year.
The verticals GECAS earned 343 million up 13% is lower impairments and higher gains offset the impact of lower assets which were down 9%.
New volume was 1.5 billion up [17%] with attractive returns of above 3% ROI's and we ended the quarter with zero aircraft on the ground.
Energy finance had a good quarter with earnings up 27% to $76 million driven by core income and lower level of loss and impairments.
As I mentioned earlier the tax rate at GE Capital is negative for the quarter and that was driven by the plan order transaction with 260 million of tax-to-up being both for the GE Capital Corporate.
Excluding the tax-to-up the GE Capital tax rate would have been in the low-single-digits for the quarter.
As you look forward in the third quarter we expect GE Capital to be about be around about 1.6 billion in earnings.
Overall Keith and the team continue to execute the portfolio strategy and deliver solid operating results.
The Nordics dispositions which we expect to complete in the third quarter and the IPO of retail finance which I'll cover on the next page are major steps from further reducing GE Capital's consumer footprint and focusing on the commercial core.
So we're announcing today that we're targeting the IPO of our North American retail finance business for the end of July we will be putting out a prospectus of a red hearing later this morning.
We're limited to what we can say during the IPO process but we're pleased to be at the final stages of the IPO.
We're targeting a 15% offering for about 3.1 billion at the mid-point of the price range.
There is a potential additional 2.25% for the Green Shoe.
As we said in the past the capital raise will remain within Synchrony to enhance its standalone capital and liquidity levels.
There will be 1.5 billion of funded transitional financing from GE Capital.
This is down from our previous estimate of about 3 billion.
The team has been doing a lot of work to strengthen their standalone capabilities on capital liquidity and governance.
You may have seen that S&amp;P and Fitch publish their investment grade ratings earlier this week for Synchrony.
We are targeting the split off in late 2015 subject to regulatory reviews and approvals.
Assuming a $3 billion IPO from 15% we would retain an approximately $70 billion position in Synchrony.
There are a lot of variables and the GE share count reduction will be dependent on the price of GE and Synchrony shares at the time of the split.
We are still targeting 9.5 billion or less shares with this transaction.
The process in on track and well update you along the way.
With that I will pass it back to Jeff.
We have no change for the operating frame work for 2014 we expect double digit industrial operating profit growth behind solid organic growth and margin expansion.
GE Capital earnings were on track for $7 billion excluding the impact of the preferred dividend.
We will hit our simplification goals including a $500 million reduction in corporate expense we plan for restructuring to exceed gains which is a drag on 2014 -- benefit 2015 and beyond.
Our CFOA and revenue remain on track.
In fact I would say organic growth in probably closer to the high end of the range.
We continue to move the company forward strategically.
Our long-term investments in technology are really paying off with solid share gains and with the retail finance IPO and Alstom acquisition we are broadly reshaping the company.
I am proud of the GE teams ability to execute so well strategic and operationally on so many fronts and we're well-positioned for the future.
So Matt now back to you and let's take some questions.
Thanks.
Christine let's open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Scott Davis of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Thorough presentation so I appreciate that.
I guess since we've got Steve there I think just some logistical questions on Alstom.
I mean did they still I mean how do you keep the price from falling apart I guess from now until you close it? I mean did they still bid on projects and compete against you till your close? Do you have some any control or oversight of how operations -- how things are run between now and then because it's going to be a little while till everything gets approved? Scott listen we are two separate companies and we'll be through closing.
As we said we have an integration planning effort that we have now kicked off but we have a process that we have to go through works council approval to have a shareholder review and we have all the various regulatory steps to go through.
So at this point Scott they are separate in some areas we do compete.
But as I mentioned earlier these companies are largely complementary complementary towards the geography technology and it's a company we obviously know.
And as you know Scott back in 1999 we bought the packaging business that was EGT that came to us and some of our best leaders came from that.
But in the short term we are separate and they are under their control.
Okay understood.
And then couple of a niche here.
I mean is there - when you think about Synchrony is there and this is for Jeff and Jeff.
But are there any structural or tax reasons why this business cant be sold in the process or post the IPO versus spun? Yes Scott.
I mean the reason we focus and were heading down the path on the split is that its very tax efficient for shareholders.
So there is real value creation in doing the split offer shares versus selling the business outright.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just lastly there is a lot of chatter on M&amp;A in the space.
I mean there is pressure points out there on Siemens and Dresser does Alstom really cut you guys out at being able to go after some of the stuff if it becomes optimistic and you have white knight type scenario with Dresser? I mean its a fairly unique asset.
I mean could you -- I dont think I am asking you to comment just specifically on Dresser but on an overall basis does Alstom really keep you out of the market or do you feel like you could still go in there and if need be issue equity or be creative about how to finance it? Yes Scott.
What I would say is on -- in our oil and gas business we feel like weve got a great coverage in terms of where we are right now.
We really dont have any changes today on how we think about capital allocation and things like that.
But look were always looking at the portfolio in terms of additional divestitures and things that we can do progressively inside the company.
Were not done with that yet.
And that can open up new capital allocation options.
But were really not -- we really today -- our focus is on -- our near-term focus is on the Alstom integration and doing a great job with that.
Okay good answer.
Thanks guys and good luck.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Hey Julian.
Hey.
Just had a question on the healthcare business.
You talked back in December about how you might get close to 10% profit growth this year in healthcare first half I think profits are down.
So just maybe a quick update on your thoughts there? Yes Julian.
I think what we talked about was healthcare profit growth of high-single-digits low-double-digits.
I think given how weve started the year particularly in the U.S.
and particularly in HCS our expectations as of now are that were going to grow operating profit in healthcare single-digit a share.
I would say Julian the U.S.
market continues to be tough.
Outside the U.S.
I think the teams executing pretty well overall.
I would agree with Jeffs assessment on where healthcare are coming on the year.
And I think the good part about GE is we have other segments that will be higher than our original expectations so in total we still feel good about the overall framework of double-digit operating profit growth industrial operating profit growth.
And within healthcare I mean we still expect that we have expectations that growth markets will continue to grow for us most of them double-digits life sciences will have a great year but the U.S.
is going to be real headwind.
Thanks.
And then just on the kind of GE-wide EBIT margin bridge I think in the first half you had a value gap benefit to EBIT of about 200 million I think in January you talked about a 200 million benefit for the year as a whole.
So what should we expect for value gap in the second half as a EBIT driver? Yes.
So I think the guidance we gave is a couple of hundred million for the year; were in very good shape through the first half.
We still expect value gap to contract a bit in the second half as it relates to prices we ship backlog particularly in power and water.
But there is a chance we could be a little bit better for the year on value gap but I wouldnt expect it to be markedly different than what we have shared with you previously.
I think [simplification] [ph] still on track for $1 billion plus for the year.
Great.
And then just lastly for Steve on the grid business Chinese competitors have made very big inroads there even on areas like HVDC is the last decade.
How confident are you about the ability to bring up the grid margins given the competitive landscape is so different now?  I think what you saw from the results in the quarter is that team is making progress.
And one of the thing that business also needs long-term is scale.
And thats one of the things we talked about with Alstom in our integration planning.
One of the joint ventures we have is right in that space.
We will be putting our digital energy business with the Alstom grid business to have more scale globally and be able to compete with the people like ABB and Siemens.
So I think we are on the right track.
Julian if you look in the industry ABB is 15 plus Siemens is double digits our combined business will be 5% to 6%.
If we can get from 5%-6% to 10% we are going to create a bunch of shareholder value here in terms of where we need to go.
And I think thats our game plan in terms of how do you be a more competitive enterprise on a combined basis.
Great thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Nigel.
Yes just a quick question on Synchrony.
Obviously you are pushing the button today on the road show but once that IPOs what happens to the accounting for the retail funds business; does that move as an investment or does it qualify for discontinuation?  No will continue accounting for it and continue our operations and we'll account for the public ownership roughly 15% as minority interest.
Okay.
No that's very clear.
And then just switching to the H; youve got nine units in your order book.
And I'm just wondering Jeff you mentioned that EPG that's I think roughly 35% on the proposal I'm just wondering how that numbers changed? The H just to follow up on your question there Nigel as we said we have nine now in the process and our first one ship next year and the demand is around the world and you see demand also in this high efficiency segment continuing to move forward a lot of focus on area; there are multiple people in the space but we are happy with our progress.
And as you heard from Jeff Bornstein if you look at our gas turbine orders through the first half we're 41 versus 32 last year.
We're making headway towards the framework that we put out earlier this year of about 125 for the year.
How many in the bid cycle? In the bid cycle H probably north of 45 50.
So there is a lot of activity around the world.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey Jeff.
Hey.
Just a couple of kind of deal related questions.
First just Steve or perhaps Jeff Bornstein but the JV structure and the put structure as it relates to that at Alstom can you give us a little more color on how that works and how this floor mechanism works? Absolutely Jeff I the mechanics two different structures but it's clear on how Alstom gets liquidity.
And in each case Alstom would have the right to sell all of its shares in the JVs to GE at a price that would return Alstoms investment plus an annual accretion in line approximately to our borrowing costs.
Additionally there is an opportunity for Alstom to share and some potential upside based on a predetermined EBITDA multiple.
The timing of those outputs are slightly different grid and renewables more in the three to four year timeframe for the [nuclear] and French steam JV more in the year 5 6 7 timeframe but its clear we know how it works and pretty straight forward.
If those things go [south part] you still own that making them hold at their investment plus some accretion? Thats correct.
In terms of their whole and some slightly return as we talked about.
But at this point we maintain operational control.
We named the CEO and we know how to get after the synergies.
And then I was also just wondering shifting gears on Synchrony.
I was a little surprised to hear late 2015 is kind of the split-off target given that looks like youre getting this done mid 14 I would have thought maybe six nine months of seasoning would have been enough and this would be kind of an early 15 split.
Can you share any thought or philosophy on that? Yes.
So were on the timeline we talked about for the IPO.
Were talking in the second half of 15 now.
I think just based on the amount of work to get the standalone ready and to get to where we need to be with regulators and get to the approval process.
We think thats probably closer to the second half of 15.
Yes Jeff were not going to keep it a day longer than when we get approval to do the split.
So its just really letting it season as all were trying to just allow for a little timeframe for that.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Inch of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning everyone.
Hey John.
Good morning.
So Alstom back to Alstom.
When do we get a full handle on the EPC liability risks that project death and life? And as the crawlery just to wait until the deal closes to communicate that if there is something that could be material that you might have to true up or top-up with GE Funding? Why dont I step in on that one John.
Listen there is nothing new to report here today you're talking I think about turnkey projects that they have.
We get public company due diligence so there is a certain amount of detail that we have got the exposure to.
And with that we've accounted for that in our financial model but there is always going to be things we find as we go through the process.
But I say at this point this is a business we know well we factored that in and we have some synergies to offset as we go forward.
So at this point we just got we think we got to come.
John I would just add that and say really a business in an industry that we've been in for 100 years.
We've done at once with Alstom so we knew a little bit from 1999.
Deals like this come around infrequently particularly at this kind of valuation so 4.5 times EBITDA after synergies and synergy pipeline that adds up to more than 1.2 billion.
So there is always a lot of discussion around deals like this but the overall economics are extremely compelling for investors in light in our sweet spot vis--vis the ability to execute.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hey Steve.
So just at a high level first and I have a follow up on power and water mix what offsets the healthcare revision in framework?  Well we generally expect the businesses within the framework I just shared with you in December to be within that framework and.
I think Steve aviation is certainly doing better and oil and gas is off to a good start for the year and we expect energy management to deliver  Across the portfolio we think we are still within framework we have shared with you.
Okay and then just on power and water I guess this kind of goes to the next question.
When you look out to the second half I think you have the thermal deliveries are going to be up it looks like distributed power faces pretty much tougher comps and the orders arent holding up there so maybe thats a little bit lower.
How much better or against Advanced Gas Paths going to be in the second half and is that enough to offset what would seem like ongoing negative mix when you look at thermal being up and distributed power being down?  Steve as we look at Advanced Gas Paths we have got 19 shifts in the quarter 36 year-to-date versus 14 last year.
So we are clearly on a better path this year on Advanced Gas Paths.
My guess is as we look at the second half of the year we are going to see the second half kind of more level loaded with the first half so therefore it might be 70ish maybe a little more.
So thats why when Jeff Bornstein talked about Advanced Gas Paths we feel little better but we do have some probably some softness in the distributed power area.
So thats how we kind of how we look at that.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
So to-date I think you've announced dispositions of roughly a little over $1 billion; you think you've got a targeted number of $4 billion.
I was just wondering if you could give us any update on the timing there? And Jeff you made a comment earlier that you like where your portfolio is today on oil and gas so I was wondering what areas you would be looking at specifically to add across your industrial portfolio? Well Joe again I think we never like to talk about dispositions and so we actually see them but I would say we are on track for the $4 billion and we would expect additional announcements as you look at how the year unfolds but those things happen as they happen.
And on the buy side look we always have a list of stuff that we do.
I think the question that Scott asked earlier was really a more along the lines of Turbomachinery and packaging and things like that.
We feel like in oil and gas we feel like we've got a great portfolio in that particular segment of oil and gas.
And I would just circle back to the big priority of the team really is the Alstom integration and that's where the main focus is right now.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Deane Dray of Citi Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Deane.
Hey.
Jeff in your opening remarks you touched on there were some push outs and you said wind oil and gas and subsea.
And I was hoping you could quantify a bit as to what the size of those or maybe by geographies any reasons and is this project timing or customer confidence? Yes Deane Ill give you a few pieces of it.
So within power and water and wind we had 400 500 wind units that moved out of the quarter really just awaiting clarification from the treasury department on what constitutes start of construction to be eligible for PTC and these are projects that evolve bank financing and tax equity investors.
So very tough to move those projects along until were absolutely certain that theyre going to qualify for the PTC.
We expect that clarification to come from the treasury in the next week or two.
And weve seen that clarification and we think its helpful.
So thats one example thats over a $1 billion of orders.
And then in subsea we have a couple of big projects.
Of course that were hopeful that well see here certainly in the second half as soon as possible would be great thats well over a $1 billion as well.
Deane on this there is I think three big subsea deals two of them have been awarded us so its just a function of getting the kind of project approval and stuff like that.
Were waiting for financial close Were just waiting for financial close to put the order.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Andrew Obin of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Hey Andrew.
Good morning yes.
Just with Alstom and with Synchrony and also you guys are going to do divestitures.
What is the rest that some of the restructuring actions get pushed back with active portfolio reshaping going on just thinking about management bandwidth this year? Zero.
Andrew I just think zero.
Our intent is to get to the 75-25 by 16 and still do the simplification that weve got going right now and the teams are executing along that track.
I would just add Andrew as long as weve got a project list it looks like year and half pay backs those returns on investment are incredible and we will do every one of them.
Thank you.
Our final question is from Steven Winoker of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hey Steve.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for putting me in.
I appreciate the transparency and speed that which you are moving through this.
Couple of questions here the first one just clarification on GE Capital.
The $3 billion of dividend; how much specials in there? We're estimating a $2 billion income dividend and about a $1 billion special.
Okay.
And is there any room for movement around that special in your view up or down? Not likely.
Okay alright.
And then Steve and so Ive got you on power gen.
What -- we look at the thermal rate which is also lumpy and down again this quarter but what headwinds are you starting to see or anticipate in the future on the distributed generation and roof top solar front versus the impact on power gen and you've got energy efficiency you've got solar finally making inroads? Are you guys thinking about that as a headwind at all to growth in the core area? Steve? I think it's a great question.
I'd say you are seeing the impact of less load growth electricity load growth because of the distributed generation technology solar energy storage et cetera.
But what I would say is in aggregate though there is still electricity load growth.
And again a lot of those technologies still are less than 1% or 2% of the total load on the system and still 70% of all new power generation new equipment purchases in the world are in developing regions.
So this is something we got to look at on a global scale.
So overall I'd say we play in pieces of that.
And I think you'll see us over time build out the portfolio in spaces but  In the DP businesses Algeria Brazil Thailand those arent solar places thats where the DP business really goes.
Right.
So I would say overall its an opportunity for us and we go from there.
Okay great.
Were bumping up against 09:30.
The replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
Well also be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital later today.
A couple of announcements regarding upcoming investor events: First on Wednesday September 10th we will hold our Oil and Gas Investor Meeting in New York City; on Thursday October 9th we will hold our Services and Industrial Internet Investor Meeting in conjunction with the Mines Machines 2014 Conference in New York City.
We hope to see you at these events.
Finally our third quarter 2014 earnings webcast will be on Friday October 17th.
And as always well be available today to take questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Vivian and I will be your conference coordinator today.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays third quarter webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued the press release presentation and GE Supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; our Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein and our Vice President GE Healthcare Life Sciences Kieran Murphy.
Weve asked Kieran to join to talk about our life sciences business.
Now with that Id like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Matt.
We continue to plan against the global macro backdrop to this volatile and one where some economic projections of recent been revised downwards.
That said we are seeing solid pockets of underlying growth in many of our markets.
The good news for us is that we plan for volatile environment our businesses are executing well and we are tracking to our expectations for the year.
As a result we had a good quarter.
EPS was $0.38 an increase of 6% versus last year.
Our Industrial segment profits grew by 9%.
Our relative position in key markets is improving.
Weve gained share in transportation aviation power and healthcare.
We had great new products.
Orders grew by 22%.
For the first time in a while we are seeing volume improving for GE Capital in the US.
GE grew margins by 90 basis points.
We continue to generate benefits from our simplification efforts and are on track for more than $1 billion of costs out for the year.
Margins improved in six or seven businesses and our costs out momentum are strong.
We remain on track for CFOA for the year.
So we are running the company well.
And we are executing on our portfolio strategy.
We launched the Synchrony IPO in July and as we move forward this will dramatically reduce the size of GE Capital and our presence in consumer finance and weve invested in platforms like Milestone Aviation a helicopter leasing business linked to GE Aviation.
So we are on track to create a smaller GE Capital focused on commercial finance.
At the same time we announced the sale of Appliances a legacy GE business.
The Synchrony spend Appliances sale and also some acquisition from the second quarter are all a part of repositioning GE to be the worlds best infrastructure and technology company with a smaller financial services division.
This is a more valuable GE with 75% of our earnings from industrial by 2016.
We are winning in the market.
Orders were robust in the quarter growing 22% and this was driven by 31% equipment orders growth and 10% growth in services.
Orders pricing was positive in the third quarter.
Technology drives high margin share and we took orders for more than a 1000 Tier-4 compliant locomotives in the quarter and are ahead of the competition.
Aviation continues to enjoy a great success with LEAP wins GEnx share growth and the GE9X launch orders.
For the first time in a while power and water equipment orders grew in the United States up 41%.
We now have 13 H turbines in backlog and we are enjoying good success in oil and gas as Subsea orders growing by 63% and the launch of the 20K Blow Out Preventer.
NPIs are helping healthcare to grow in the United States and new innovations are helping LEDs to grow orders by 60% and power conversion by 30%.
Service orders grew by 10% with growth in five of the six businesses aviation and commercial spares were up 29% and power gen services grew by 10% despite some sluggish end-use markets.
Last week we announced new analytical applications and that our predictivity solution revenues will exceed $1 billion in 2014.
Orders growth was broad based geographically US orders were strong with growth of 25% and growth markets expanded by 34% with five of nine regions up in the quarter.
These include Chine up 26% orders from the Middle East North Africa and Turkey doubled Latin America was up 54% Africa up 9% and Canada up 46%.
Backlog is a record of $250 billion up more than $20 billion in the past 12 months.
We had a service backlog true-up in aviation driven by finalization of terms with CFM for LEAP which reduced the total by $2 billion nonetheless were at record high.
Strong orders positioned GE for sustained growth in the fourth quarter and beyond.
Segment profits grew by 9% with six of seven segments expanding.
Year-to-date segment profit is up 10% driven by 5% organic revenue growth and 50 basis points of margin expansion.
Organic growth was up 4% in the quarter and 5% year-to-date aviation and transportation remained very strong with equipment growth of more than 10%.
Oil and gas organic growth was up 10%.
We saw a strong US environment in healthcare and power and water had sub-comps in the third quarter while we have a very strong fourth quarter shipments versus last year.
And for the year our industrial organic growth should be at the high end of our framework.
We had another strong quarter on margins of 16.3% up 90 basis points.
Big drivers continue to be value gap productivity and simplification and we expect this to continue.
Year-to-date margins are up 50 basis points and service margins have grown by 170 basis points year-to-date.
With service orders growing by 10% and strong margin expansion we are seeing some of the early signs that our investment has started paying off.
We remain on track to growing industrial segment profits by 10% at least this year.
Weve generated $7.2 billion of CFOA year-to-date and are on track for $14 billion to $17 billion for the year.
For the quarter we grew CFOA by 41%.
GE Capital dividends are on track for $3 billion in the year.
We will generate substantial CFOA in the fourth quarter driven by much higher industrial earnings and stronger shipments than last year.
We continue to have strong liquidity and balance sheet strength GE Capital Tier-1 ratio was 12.1% up 80 basis points and we are targeting buyback and dividends of more than $11 billion for the year.
In addition we expect the Synchrony split to take GE shares below $9.5 billion by the end of 2015.
Our capital allocation continues to be disciplined and balanced.
Now let me turn you over to Kieran Murphy who is the leader of our Global Life Sciences business.
This is a strong GE franchise with expanding organic growth margins and cash flow.
Kieran joined GE in 2008 and has 25 years of experience in the life sciences industry.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning and thanks for giving me the opportunity to tell you more about life sciences a $3.7 billion business within GE Healthcare.
The healthcare industry is moving towards a more precise diagnosis with more precise treatment to address an annual waste of $350 billion since most around 90% of currently marketed drugs only work for about 40% of people.
Precision medicine would improve patient outcomes and reduced healthcare costs and this is driving the demand for biologics as opposed to chemical medicines improving efficacy and reducing side-effects.
We are in a central component of drug manufacture for this industry.
Our presence in life sciences extends from the research lab where we helped in the discovery of new medicines to the manufacturing plants where we deliver capacity and productivity.
And then all the way to supporting clinicians who use our diagnostic agents to make refined diagnosis for tens of millions of patients around the world every year.
The expansion of biological medicines for the treatment of diabetes cancer rheumatoid arthritis and other diseases drives demand for GE products and services which are embedded in biopharmaceutical dugs.
Today these drugs make up six of the top ten revenue generating medicines.
Also in the emerging markets particularly China there is a growing market need for generic bio-drugs called bio-similars.
This has the potential to be a significant growth opportunity over the next five to ten years.
And the next evolution of medicines regenerative medicine which is based on regenerating cells tissues and organs in the body is an area where GE is investing for the future.
All of this adds up to a market growing at around 8% per year.
We have a broad portfolio of products which has driven into two main areas bioprocessing and research serving academics and pharmaceutical customers and diagnostics aimed primarily at clinicians.
For biopharma manufacturing we have a leading global franchise built on a portfolio of products we acquired with the Amersham acquisition in 2004 and weve continued to build value through successful R&amp;D investments and a series of strategic deals resulting in a comprehensive offering that enables start to finish solutions for production.
This start to finish solution creates productivity opportunities for our customers and Ill return to that later.
Our Research &amp; Applied Markets business has a series of strong brands for protein characterization purification and analysis critical to the discovery of these new medicines once selected these consumables remain embedded in the scale of drug all the way to an FDA approved manufacturing process.
Within the Diagnostics business we are the global leader in contrast agents used across the spectrum of diagnostic imaging including X-ray MRI and nuclear medicines.
We supply customers through a global network of large-scale low-cost manufacturing facilities.
With novel in vitro technologies developed at the GERC we have expanded our service offering to allow researchers to better understand the underlying biology of diseases which of course in turn reaches the development of the new precision medicines which we then help to manufacture.
And that brings me on to how critical we are to the biopharmaceutical manufacturing industry.
Over the past six years biological medicine sales have grown a 10% per annum to $170 billion due primarily to the expansion of molecular antibody for the treatment of cancer and increasing demand for products like insulin.
Our hardware and consumables are embedded in the FDA approved manufacturing process of these products.
This manufacture of biologics is completely different to the industrial process for making traditional chemical-based medicine.
It requires cells to grow to produce specific protein which are then extracted and purified.
This is an $8 billion market where have got the leading position all starting from the pharmacy chromatography platform which was part of Amersham.
We continue to build on this products and service platform organically as well as through deals moving upstream with a series of acquisitions such as WAVE and Xcellerex which added fomenters and disposable technologies to the portfolio and recently HyClone Cell Media part of the $1 billion acquisition from Thermo Fisher.
This creates the start to finish solution I referred to earlier.
We enjoyed close strategic partnerships with the leading pharmaceutical companies who depend on us for reliable high quality supply.
The move to biological medicines that has driven double-digit growth over the past few years will continue as expansion in Asia creates new demand for manufacturing capacity.
We are uniquely positioned to help in this expansion or for global pharma companies wanting to localize production in new markets and for local manufacturers wanting to establish domestic production of crucial medicine.
We effectively partner to deliver factory interface solutions.
Our FlexFactory and KUBio solutions can provide a complete factory in less than half the time required for traditional plants 36 months to less than 18 and at a fraction of the costs.
Essentially we provide a faster and more cost-effective way of creating capacity and access to the emerging markets.
Lastly we are investing in the cells therapy or regenerative medicine space.
An example of this would be the creation of cells for example robust IVDs.
The bottleneck right now in this industry is to move from research of small-scale to industrial-scale production and this is an area where we can bring our bioprocessing tools and expertise to enable this revolutionary change in medicine.
Its an emerging market where we have low revenues today but we see it having the potential to create $1 billion in the future.
In summary the Life Sciences business is a high margin high quality growth business within GE.
We are a trusted supplier for the pharmaceutical industry for biopharmaceutical research and manufacturing.
GE Healthcares deep relationships with hospitals provides greater access for sales growth and diagnostic and research products.
We leverage GEs great strength in research and analytics from the global research and our software center in San Ramon.
We use the global operations and commercial teams across the world to sell into emerging markets.
This is a business where in 2014 we are delivering strong growth especially in bioprocessing with margins expanding by 100 basis points through business integration and organizations and litigations.
And we are generating in excess of $1 billion free cash flow.
Overall the dealer turn for this business is in the low teens.
This is a growing and valuable business within GE and we continue to see healthy pipeline and have great confidence in the future growth of the business.
And now I would like to hand over to Jeff Bornstein.
Thanks Kieran.
Ill start with the third quarter summary.
We had revenues of $36.2 billion up 1% from the third quarter of 2013.
Industrial sales of $26 billion were up 3% and GE Capital revenues of $10.5 billion were down 1%.
Operating earnings of $3.8 billion were up 3% in the quarter.
Operational earnings per share of $0.38 were up 6% continuing EPS of $0.34 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations.
With a small benefit in discontinued operations this quarter associated with touring of taxes on the Grey Zone payment.
As Jeff said CFO year-to-date was $7.2 billion with industrial CFOA of $5 billion and received $2.2 billion of dividends from GE capital.
In the quarter industrial generated $3 billion of CFOA up $900 million versus the third quarter of 2013.
For the year were on track to deliver on the $14 billion to $17 billion framework we provided.
The GE tax rate for the quarter was 18% and that brings the year-to-date rate for the industrial company to 20%.
We expect the total year rate to be in the high teens.
The GE Capital rate was 2% for the quarter and that was consistent with the low single-digit total year rate that we previously communicated.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Industrial segment revenues were up 3% reported and up 4% organically.
Industrial segment operating profit was up 9% and GE Capital earnings were down 22% on lower assets the Synchrony minority interest impact and lower tax benefits.
Ill cover the dynamics of each of the segments in the next couple of pages..
First Ill start with other items for the quarter.
We had $0.03 of restructuring other charges at corporate $0.02 of that related to ongoing industrial researching and other items as we continue to take actions to improve the industrial cost structure.
We also added $0.01 charge related to the announced Appliances disposition.
Weve moved the business to held for sale and recognized prior service costs related to pension and retiree held for Appliances supporting these.
On a pre-tax basis that was a $113 million of the total $435 million restructuring and other charges we incurred in the quarter.
I want to give an update on industrial cost dynamics.
On the left side you can see our research and engaged profiles for the year we expect to invest about $1.4 billion in restructuring and other charges with about $1.2 billion incurred through the first three quarters of the year.
We had gains to a share of about a penny from the Wayne disposition and so for the year we are expecting restructuring net of gains to be about $0.09.
Wed like to pay back and the operating leverage that we are getting from these projects.
The average payback is about a year and a half approximately 55% of these projects relate to product and operating costs and the rest is associated with SG&amp;A.
On the right side Ill give you a quick update on two important costs out events.
First on structural SG&amp;A weve taken out $674 million year-to-date on our way to over $1 billion for the year.
As a result of these actions industrial SG&amp;A as a percent of sales has come down steadily.
Year-to-date we are down 1.6 points versus 2013.
We expect to be above 14% for the year driven by an additional $300 million plus of costs out in fourth quarter and strong volumes.
In corporate weve taken actions to reduce our operating cost as well.
Year-to-date weve taken out $436 million through simplification efforts at corporate headquarters GGO and reductions in our social costs.
For the year we expect to deliver more than the $500 million target we established at the start of the year.
As Jeff said industrial segment op profit is up 10% year-to-date.
When you look at industrial including corporate operating profit was up 17% year-to-date 19% in the quarter.
This excludes the investments weve made in restructuring net of gains and the MBCU income we had in 2013.
So Ill start with the segment summaries first power and water.
Orders in the quarter of $6.4 billion were higher by 9% equipment orders were up 8% driven by strong renewables up 42% partially offset by distributed power down 32% and thermal down 8%.
Renewables saw strength in Europe Latin America and the US despite the later than expected IRS clarification of PTC eligibility.
Distributed power continues to see projects push.
We booked about 30% of the units that pushed in the second quarter but saw some projects pushed to the fourth quarter in 2015.
We believe all these projects are viable but are located in tougher regions like Egypt Libya Angola and Kazakhstan.
Thermal orders were down on four lower gas turbines but higher on a gigawatt basis driven by the large H class order in the US from Exelon.
This brings our total eight units of backlog to 13.
We now expect total year gas turbine unit orders to be about 105 to 110 versus 125 driven by disruption in the Middle East and some US customers are shifting from F class to H class technology.
This shift is required some of our customers to re-permit the sites and has delayed some orders.
Service orders in the quarter were up 10%.
We had strong orders for upgrades and transactional outage volumes as discussed in the second quarter call.
And AGPs in the quarter were 18 versus 15 a year ago.
Revenue of 6.4 billion in the quarter was down 2%.
With Equipment down 8% and services up 6%.
Equipment revenue was driven by distributed power down 35% on 24 fewer units versus last year partially offset by strong renewables up 18%.
Revenue was a little lower than expected wind units were 150 less than planned driven by late IFRS guidance but we still expect to ship above 3000 units for the year.
Distributed power was also lower by about 10 units as projects were delayed.
On gas turbine units weve shipped 64 units year-to-date and now expect to ship about 105 in the year versus the 85 to 90 we planned.
Service revenues in the quarter of $2.9 billion were up 6% on higher AGPs and upgrades.
From an operating profit perspective we were at just shy of $1.2 billion was down 8% driven by negative price and mix from higher wind and lower distributed power which more than offset cost benefits including SG&amp;A which was down 10%.
Margins were down 110 basis points in the quarter.
For the fourth quarter we expect strong double-digit revenue growth on higher gas turbine shipments up above 40% and higher wind turbines up above 30% bringing the total year shipments to about 105 on gas turbines and about 3000 wind turbines which is within the original framework.
As discussed on the second quarter call we still expect total year AGPs to be higher and distributed power units to be lower impacted by the delays we discussed previously.
In oil and gas orders at $4.9 billion were up 10% equipment orders were up 14% up 20% organically excluding the impact of the Wayne disposition.
We had strength in Subsea up 84% with strong Brazilian orders downstream technology up 64%driven by demand in small-scale LNG partially offset by DNS which was down 12% in the quarter.
Service orders were up 6% where strength in Subsea up 27% and turbo machinery up 8% partially offset by MNC which was down 8%.
Organically MNC was up 7% with demand for control solutions improving in both industrial and oil and gas applications.
Revenues of $4.6 billion grew 7% year-over-year with equipment revenues higher by 9% and services up 4%.
Operating profit of $660 million was up 27% on strong cost performance project execution and a positive value gap offset by lower MNC mix.
Margin rates expanded in the quarter 240 basis points.
Our outlook for the year remains intact for the business with double-digit op profit growth.
However we are moderating our view of orders growth from high single-digits to low double-digits to mid-single-digits.
We expect orders to grow in the fourth quarter.
As you know orders in the space are very volatile and we continue to see some big projects pushed to the right.
Next Ill do aviation and healthcare starting with aviation.
Travel demand continues to grow with RBKs August year-to-date up 5.1% domestically and up 6.3% internationally.
Orders for aviation were very strong in the quarter up 30% with equipment orders up 35% and $6.8 billion and services higher by 20%.
Equipment strength was led by $3.8 billion of GE 9X orders for Emirates Etihad and Lufthansa.
We also won $1.3 billion of CFM LEAP orders bringing our program today win rate on the next-end narrow bodies to 78%.
Military equipment orders were down 40% but up 3% year-to-date and are on track to be flat for the year.
Service orders were driven by strong commercial spares up 29% to $30.9 million a day partially offset by military spares weakness.
Revenues in the quarter is up $5.7 billion were up 6% driven by commercial equipment revenue up 22% military up 8% and services down 1%.
Commercial spares were up 19% offset by military services down 17%.
Leverage in the operating profit was strong with 16% growth on better price performance and volume partly offset by higher GEnx shipments with 65 units in the quarter up 39 from the third quarter of 2013.
SG&amp;A ex-Avio was down 4% in the quarter and margins expanded to 190 basis points.
Overall David and the aviation team delivered a strong quarter we expect the aviation business to continue to expand its technology leadership.
GEnx shipments will be higher in the fourth quarter and we still expect to ship about 300 units for the year.
In healthcare orders were up 1% with better growth in the US which was up 3% Europe was up 4% and Latin America was up 18%.
This was offset by Japan down 12% and the Middle East down 15% in the quarter.
Equipment orders of $2.7 billion were flat on lower Japan and Middle East orders.
Our US equipment orders were up 4% driven by very strong imaging and ultrasound orders which were up 10%.
We believe the US market was up as well but more modestly.
China ACS equipment orders were up 6% in the third quarter and they are up 11% year-to-date.
China growth was slower driven by tender decision delays in public hospitals.
In Kierans business Life Sciences equipment orders were strong up 15% and service orders for healthcare total were up 4%.
Revenues in the quarter were up 4% with developed markets up 2% and emerging markets up 11% including China up 10% Latin America up 30% and the Middle East up 16%.
Op profit grew 9% driven by volume and strong cost productivity offset by negative price.
SG&amp;A was down 5% in the quarter.
Looking forward we expect US to remain volatile but our products are performing well.
Our position in china is very strong and we believe underlying healthcare demand remains strong in the long run with an aging population increasing insurance coverage and continued government spend in healthcare.
As you heard today we have a very exciting life sciences business with a unique position.
Simplification will continue to transform our cost structure in this business.
Next is transportation which had a very strong quarter.
Orders in the quarter were up 134% led by equipment orders up three times or $2.1 billion.
The business took orders for more than a Tier-4 compliant locomotives to be delivered over the next three years.
Locomotive loading is nearing current capacity levels for 2015.
Car loads continue to be strong led by agriculture petroleum and intermodal and network velocity continues to be a challenge.
Mining equipment orders remain weak down 38% transportation service orders were up 8% in the quarter.
Revenues were up 10% driven by locomotive volume with units up 49% partially offset by services down 3% on mining weakness.
Operating profit was higher by 12% driven by local volume and cost productivity and SG&amp;A was down 5% and that allowed margins to improve 40 basis points in the quarter.
We are very pleased with the teams execution on the Tier-4 loco and expect to continue to fill out our order book for 2016 and 2017 and we feel great about our ability to execute against this order growth.
Energy management the business continues to improve.
Our orders in the quarter were down 1% with digital energy down 25% industrial solutions down 7% on weak European demand and the impact of exiting certain markets and products as part of restructuring.
Power conversion was strong up 30% in the quarter driven by marine.
Backlog grew 9%.
Revenues up $1.8 billion were down 1% op profit of $59 million was up three times on strong cost and restructuring execution.
And then appliances and lighting the core industry within appliances was up 9% in the third quarter retail was up 9% and contract up 7%.
Revenue in the quarter was up 1% to $2.1 billion with appliances up 2% and lighting down 2%.
Appliance revenue was driven by volume up 3% while strong LED growth of 59% and lighting was more than offset by traditional product declines.
Operating profit of $88 million was higher by 14% on strong productivity and SG&amp;A was down 11% and margins expanded 15 basis points.
As we announced in early September we reached an agreement with Electrolux to sell our Appliance business.
We hope to close that transaction in mid-2015.
Next Ill cover GE Capital.
As you know we successfully completed the IPO of 15% of our North American retail finance business now known as Synchrony Financial.
Its a publicly traded company CEO Margaret Keane and the team will host their own investor call later this morning.
We continue to make progress on separation efforts and expect the split out to take place towards the end of 2015 subject to regulatory approval.
In the meantime Synchrony will remain consolidated in GE Capital Financials.
GE Capitals revenue of $10.5 billion was down 1% primarily from lower assets partially offset by higher gains.
GE Capitals net income of $1.5 billion was down 22% principally driven by lower assets which includes minority interest impact resulting from the Synchrony IPO and lower tax benefits.
Earnings were affected by the timing of our Nordics consumer platform exit which is previously announced moved from the third to the fourth quarter.
E&amp;I of $365 billion was down $19 billion or 5% from last year and down $7 billion sequentially.
Non-strategic E&amp;I was down $11 billion or 8% versus last year.
Net interest margin in the quarter was 5% which is essentially flat.
GE Capitals Tier-1 common ratio on a Basel-1 basis remains in a strong position and ended the quarter at 12.1%.
This is up 40 basis points sequentially and 79 points year-over-year.
Our liquidity levels are also strong and we ended the quarter with $80 billion of cash with $15 billion attributable to Synchrony.
Our commercial paper program remains stable at $25 billion and we have substantially completed our long-term debt issuance for the year at $9.4 billion.
On the right side of the page asset quality trends continue to be strong and stable.
Now Ill walk through each of the segments.
The commercial lending and leasing business ended the quarter with 170 billion of assets flat to last year on book core volume was $10 billion up 5% driven by increases in both the Americas and international.
We continued to see strengthening in the US largely in equipment financing with volume up 7%.
The team is staying disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles and the new business returns on both lending and equipment were largely in line with the first half of the year.
Earnings of $617 million were up 29% driven by lower marks and impairments primarily in our corporate air book as well as higher gains and tax benefits.
The consumer segment ended the quarter with $141 billion of assets up 4% from last year driven by Synchrony.
Net income was $621 million down 31%.
As I mentioned earlier  Synchrony team will cover all the details of their quarter in a call later this morning.
Our share of their earnings was $509 million down 25% net of minority interest and investment in its standalone capabilities.
The international consumer business was down as well from the effect of lower assets which were down 16% year-over-year consistent with last quarter.
In real estate assets of $36 billion were down 9% versus prior year.
The equity book is down 28% from a year ago to $12 billion.
Net income of $175 million was down 62% primarily from non-repeat of prior year tax benefits.
In the current quarter we sold 72 properties from our real estate equity book with a book value of roughly $0.5 billion for $122 million in gains.
In the verticals GECAS earned $133 million down 23% from lower assets and tax benefits.
Impairments including our annual review completed this quarter resulted in a $197 million after-tax impact roughly in line with the third quarter of last year.
The impairments are driven by value declines in 50 seater regional jets older-767s and older A320s.
Overall the portfolio is in great shape and we finished the quarter once again with no aircraft on the ground and zero delinquencies.
We do not anticipate any updates in the fourth quarter to the GCAS impairment process.
New volume was much stronger at $1.4 billion up 62% with very attractive returns in line with the first half of the year.
As Jeff mentioned before we were excited to announce the Milestone acquisition on Monday.
The acquisition combines GCAS global reach and leasing expertise with a growing helicopter financing business that will diversify our business and put our capital to work at good returns.
This is in line with GE Capitals strategy to grow in the mid-market and industrial vertical space where we have deep domain expertise and are competitively advantaged.
The deal is expected to close in 2015 pending regulatory approvals.
Energy finance earned $61 million down 59% resulting from lower assets and gains and higher impairments.
EFS volume was up strongly at 152% year-over-year at very attractive returns.
As you look forward to the fourth quarter we expect GE Capital to be about $1.8 billion in earnings including the gain from exiting of our Nordics business.
However we continue to aggressive work on opportunities to reduce the size of non-strategic portfolio.
And these transactions could impact earnings and tax and the tax rate in the fourth quarter.
So overall Keith and the team continue to execute the portfolio strategy and deliver solid operating results.
So with that Ill turn it back to Jeff.
Thanks Jeff.
We remain on track for a 2014 operating framework.
Industrial segment earnings were driven by sustained organic growth and margin expansion and are expected to grow by at least 10% this year.
GE Capital is on track with higher earnings in the fourth quarter due to the timing of the Nordic consumer finance platform sale.
Corporate is on track as expected and as expected corporate has been a drag in 2014 because of restructuring investments exceed gains.
However this will be a real tailwind in 2015.
Cash and revenues remain on track and we expect fourth quarter organic revenue to be robust.
Despite a volatile global environment GE expects to have a good fourth quarter and deliver on our 2014 framework.
In addition we are changing the portfolio to position GE for long-term growth.
The GE team has done a good job of both strategic and operational execution.
With a big backlog high levels of recurring revenue and a restructuring program already in place  we believe that GE will deliver for investors in times like these.
Now Matt lets turn it back over to you and take some questions.
All right thanks Jeff Why dont we open up and take some questions now? (Operator instructions) Our first question comes from Scott Davis.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hey Scott Appreciate the detail on the presentation.
It's really helpful.
Guys I wanted to get your sense I mean if you look at the markets its kind of telling you that the world is falling apart but then we see the numbers here and they look pretty  pretty darn good overall and overall in the space haven't been that bad.
I mean \what are your customers telling you? I mean is  are we at a risk of a real pullback in customer activity as we get into the fourth quarter just based on this new growth contagion thats out there  this growth fear? You know Scott I just give you a view of the world and again there is certainly lot going on but I would say the US is probably the best weve seen it since the financial crisis right when you look at rail loadings and things like that youve got a decent and healthy US market.
Europe is slower for sure.
But I think most companies industrial companies havent counted on Europe and Japan for much incremental growth.
And then if you go across the emerging markets and I was two weeks ago the Middle East and North Africa still pretty healthy robust.
China I think is more of a micro story then macro story now.
Aviation healthcare very strong if you are in the right industries very robust.
Mexico better.
So if you look at it geographically Scott I think its kind of the slow growth pattern with volatility but a not a lot different than what weve seen in the past and then kind of industry-by-industry Aviation remains strong transportation remains strong power depends on what segments you are in.
Or I guess you definitely have more caution in oil and gas but Ive been with a bunch of the CEOs just in the last couple days and the long-term projects I think are still kind of underway.
But there is certainly I would say there was already caution before the last I would say month or so around there.
So I think it fits a pattern that weve seen in the last couple of years and the underlying activity is still reasonably healthy but not universal.
There are some parts that are clearly stronger than others.
Okay fair enough.
And just healthcare it's kind of unusual for you guys to make a big management change like that in the middle of a quarter or a middle of the year I should say.
The healthcare numbers were pretty good.
I mean what was it Jeff that you didn't like about the direction of whats going on in healthcare that really catalyzed the change there? You know Scott these things were always individual-by-individual.
I think John Dineen was a really good leader here; I think he has got good opportunities as you saw yesterday he has got a nice new assignment and sometimes I just think it works for the individual and for the company.
So again I think the healthcare business is still a key business for us.
But yes it gives us a new set of eyes and I think in Johns case the future makes sense for him as well.
I normally don't ask three questions but what people are asking questions.
Why put a non-healthcare non-domain experienced guy into a business like this? I mean Jeff youve said in the past that you really want more domain expertise within the businesses and John is  I think he is very good obviously but it came its a little bit strange to put a non-healthcare guy in charge of the healthcare business.
I mean can you just explain that a little bit and then Ill pass it on? Yes Scott look I love Flannerys global experience.
I thought that was outstanding.
He has got a great strategic buying to put.
He has more experience in healthcare than I had when I became of CEO of healthcare more than 10 years ago.
So I think he has got a nice  really a nice background and has real hands on experience with it outside the United States.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Yes thanks Scott.
The next question comes from Nigel Coe.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Morning Nigel.
Yes so I was quite obviously very pleased to get the detail on Life Sciences  a real gem of an asset.
But relatively small in the theme of things so I am wondering Jeff is this a business that you want to grow a bit more aggressively going forward from here? Well you know there is still  maybe Ill start and then Kieran turn it over to you.
I think in the bioprocess manufacturing weve been able to do bolt-on acquisitions behind organic growth and I think thats been a great GE success factor over time.
So I think thats falling of those one that we continue to make  get experience with.
And then the other side on the diagnostic pharma side Nigel thats more of a heavy R&amp;D side.
Right so I would say maybe bolt-on acquisitions on the bioprocess manufacturing maybe some R&amp;D collaborations but I dont see a big deal.
And now Kieran why dont I turn it to you?  Yes I agree Jeff.
Look I think the prognosis for growth for this business is actually very strong.
We have a great portfolio especially in the bioprocessing space weve done some nice deals here to give ourselves this stuff to finish to the receptor on the pitch and there is no question that with the innovation in medicine moving more towards biology and really strong continued growth in monoclonal antibodies we are in a great position to serve that market.
And of course if you look at whats happening in the emerging markets especially in places like China and the need for infrastructure I think our solutions are ideally suited to that.
So I see a greater opportunity for growth.
From our standpoint the GE infrastructure globally gives us such a great reach into the markets especially as with things like China the Middle East and Latin America that the infrastructure of GE gives us a great backbone to actually reach into these markets and do projects in difficult situations.
Okay thanks.
And then Jeff as a follow-on expressing confidence in the 7% organic for the year is obviously encouraging given the headlines but you clearly have the backlog in place but you talked about some deferrals into 4Q maybe 2015 in oil and gas and perhaps power.
So I am wondering to what extent that you are concerned that perhaps these delays might push into 2015 and therefore maybe 4Q comes in a bit weaker? So what gives you confidence that GE can get the 7% for the year? I would talk about  I wanted to  the power stuff is really the hub of  kind of- I guess our confidence and I dont know Jeff do you want to?   Yes I mean we have fourth quarter in front of us that we think is kind of be very strong.
Just for instance year-over-year in the fourth quarter our gas serving shipment is going to be up more than 40% year-over-year.
Our wind shipments will be up more than 30% year-over-year.
Aero shipments 16% even commercial and military engines are going to be up mid double-digits and we are looking for a 30% increase in locos year-over-year.
So we are looking at a fourth quarter that we think is going to be very strong and we expect the power business to be up substantially in the fourth quarter.
And this stuff  thats already cited and financed and then backlog and stuff like that.
Yes for the most part most of the gas turbines or 100% of the gas turbines are in backlog we are in good shape on wind.
So a good part of the volume that drives the fourth quarter.
We stand pretty firmly on  I would say as Ive said before distributed power is the place where we have seen the most volatility and based on the places we are selling I think thats going to continue to play out that way.
But I think we feel good about a strong revenue quarter in the fourth quarter.
That's very helpful and just a quick follow-on to that.
So obviously based on equipment orders shipments in place for 4Q normally that would dent margins but you had service margins up so strong in this quarter.
So I am wondering can you maybe add some color on where you look for margin in 4Q as well? No we continue to progress on where we expect to continue to progress on margins.
We are on this journey to 17 plus percent 2016 we got were 50 basis points up third quarter year-to-date.
And we expect to be on that trajectory to get to 17% in 2016.
So we would expect to continue to progress.
I just think tailwinds the micro stuff SG&amp;A is good value gap is good and I think the service productivity actually has good momentum as well.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
The next question comes from Steven Winoker.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Hey Steve.
Hey so maybe just it's been a little while now that youve been moving forward with Alstom.
How has your thinking continued to progress as the time has passed? We got another quarter of information behind us from Alstom and within your business.
Where are you in the process and how are you thinking about the opportunity now versus a few months ago?  You know Steve here is what again were just in the process itself.
I think the regulatory stuff is all going per schedule.
We havent seen anything that is a surprise.
They are in the same markets out that you guys see every day.
So some good some bad on that but not a big surprise there and I would say synergies the opportunities for synergies are probably greater than what we would have expected and so we continue to work on that.
So I think other than that I dont really  there is not a lot more color I can add  Ill do more at the outlook meeting on Alstom.
But Id say we still like what we see.
We still think there is good potential to run it as a combined entity better.
Okay and then maybe just going  diving a little bit into the order price profile on Slide 3 obviously its pretty positive across most of those segments and then we saw yet another quarter where healthcare was negative and kind of used to that at this point.
And obviously you called out the positives going on in life science.
So maybe just continue to give us a little understanding obviously this must be within systems.
And kind of whats happening? Is there any change here? How the Affordable Care Act you are seeing sort of play out so far? And maybe are you looking at this thing with a little more of a fresh eye these days just some thoughts on that front? You know I think healthcare has been everything else being equal reasonably consistent for quite a long period of time.
I mean we have seen quarter-over-quarter year-over-year equipment pricing in the down 140 basis points roughly 150 basis points at a point in time.
A little bit better on service.
But I dont think we see anything that would suggest that the dynamics around those product cycles the market behavior around price is changing.
So we are very focused on winning with technology and gaining share that way and as I said we had a reasonably for the first time  reasonably strong equipment market here in the US for us up 10%.
We dont think the market was up that.
So we need to win on technology and execution and I think the price dynamics on equipment and imaging are what they are and I dont see anything changing there.
Steve there is a little bit thats of healthcare on the high tech learning curve.
So you get RCM rates are equal to or greater even sometimes when the price is down because we are getting the cost down and the product as well.
So it has the unique  I would say visibility or and compared to some of other products and technologies.
And our next question comes from Steve Tusa.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hey Steve.
So you got a big  obviously a big equipment number coming through in the fourth quarter.
There will be a bit of a mix impact.
I think you gave some color on the margin; it seems like its going to be up.
Maybe if I just look at normal seasonality which has been pretty consistent in the last few years and profits 3Q to 4Q you guys have been up about 37% 38%.
Will you be up similarly in the fourth quarter from an operating profit industrial profit perspective so somewhere around low 6 to 6.1 type of number for the fourth quarter or it will be better than normal seasonality? No we expect to be up obviously with the higher volume in the fourth quarter and we expect to continue to build on the cost gains that weve had throughout the year both in terms of SG&amp;A and corporate cost.
So we are expecting an increase in profit.
We expect to earn more in the fourth quarter for sure and we are expecting strong double-digit revenue growth and we expect to continue to make progress on margins.
Right.
So I guess from a  will it be less than the 50 BPS in the fourth quarter year-over-year? I mean it sounds well like the mix is going to be tough.
We have a very heavy equipment quarter in the fourth quarter for sure.
But as I said we expect to make progress on margins for the year.
We expect to stay on that trajectory to get the 17 plus percent in 2016.
So the 15 basis points in the third quarter I would expect those to have a decent year.
Okay and then one last question just on the turbine forecast for next year.
You guys have the orders are  sales are a little bit higher; orders are a little bit lower can you still grow your turbine shipments next year at this stage of the game? Steve well give you  when we do the outlook meeting in December well give you a little bit more color on kind of what we are thinking about 2015.
There is also going to be there is starting to be Steve a higher mix on big units as well.
So you just will try to spell that all but you definitely see the market mixing towards the bigger units.
And our next question comes from Deane Dray please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Deane.
Hey on Synchrony the timing of the split-up transaction I know you are saying late 2015 it depends on regulatory approvals.
But for modeling purposes what do you suggest that wed be using?  Yes you are right.
Were hopeful that we can get the exchange executed in late 2015.
If I were modeling actually I think I would just model Synchrony in the year and the exchange happening on 1-1 of 2016.
We cant tell you today exactly when in late 2015 I think for modeling purposes I would have it in for the year.
Great that's helpful.
And then showcasing Life Sciences today we talked a lot about growth.
Maybe you can share with us what the returns have been on these investments and I don't know if you can still trace back to the returns on Amersham but maybe start there? Yes weve looked at that.
If you go back I believe Amersham was done in 2004 when we go back and look at it over the last roughly ten years in this business weve collected about $10 billion of cash.
Obviously we had the Amersham investment we have several other investments along the way.
Weve got order of magnitude $13 billion invested.
If you look at business today at a $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion of EBITDA we think the multiple if you split it the way Kieran described it if you think about biopharma and research there is a very multiple of EBITDA based on transactions Merck and others have done.
And the Diagnostics business being a lower multiple business lower growth lower margin at 15.5 times those EBITDA numbers you get a total value of  call it 20  I am sorry $27 billion $17 billion is what we got today roughly $10 billion of cash collected versus the $13 billion we got into it.
You get a kind of something like a low teens IRR if you will like today.
Now having said that we think Kieran has got his business accelerating from here and we are very bullish on the biopharma space and so we think the returns from here forward are going to be more attractive than that.
I dont know if I answered your question.
And our next question comes from Jeff Sprague.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Jeff.
Good morning.
Just a couple quick ones.
Jeff you noted the unit outlook is a little cloudier on energy now taken the size of units that are moving up.
But I think the color in the quarter was thermal order dollars were down but you had higher gigawatts in orders.
Can you give us a little bit of color then what is really going on on new unit pricing and does that imply that these first H units really go out at very very tough pricing? Sure so its heavily dynamic with the H.
As we talked about weve got 13 in backlog and we have customers  some customers that are rethinking what otherwise might have been F powered capacity with H cop powered capacity.
It is generally speaking its one H unit will replace two F units.
So on the pricing front the initial these are launch orders so the initial H orders are going to be tougher no question about that and well get down the cost curve as quickly as possible.
But I think generally speaking we think the technology has been incredibly well received and where we thought we would be if not better given the early 2014 launch of the technology.
So we feel like we are more competitive.
We had a great quarter in the US it took 11 units.
I think the other dynamic Jeff that I would talk about Jeff is the mix of regions is probably better.
So the US is probably the place where there is the most interest right now.
And that has tended to be a slightly better margin type region for us.
So thats a positive.
All right and I am just trying to understand kind of the disconnect between power and water order price up 1.3%.
I got you I am sorry Jeff.
Yes I got it I am sorry.
The H turbines because they are new they are not in the OPI number.
There is no price to compare to last year.
Okay.
I am sorry.
I misunderstood the question.
Well you partially got what I wanted to know too; but there was a second element implied so I appreciate that.
And then just on maybe stepping back to the Milestone deal maybe I wasn't thinking about at this way but kind of focusing on the core in GE Capital I didn't really think that meant M&amp;A was on the table.
I thought that was probably more an organic idea.
What is your appetite for M&amp;A in Capital moving forward? So Jeff here is what Id say this is a strike zone deal for what we do in GCAS.
We know how to do this.
Its an operating lease business.
It matches very well with our footprint geographically on where we have resources and operating capabilities deployed.
We know how to manage businesses like this that are very asset-intensive and we really like what the returns look like over time.
It also lines up like GCAS does with our aviation business.
So a very high percentage of this portfolio our GE powered helicopters and we think that provides a lot of synergy.
So weve been  I think reasonably consistent saying that we were going to continue to grow our core mid-market and industrially aligned verticals as we move forward and at the same time we are very aggressively working the $135 billion of non-strategic parts of the portfolio and weve got a lot of things in motion there.
So I think the other way you need to think about it a bit is weve got capital available and wed rather deploy the capital at very attractive returns than to put the capital to work in a bank at a negative carry.
So I think this makes all the sense in the world and I dont think in anyway is that inconsistent with anything we or Keith have communicated.
Thank you and our next question comes from John Inch please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just given these puts and takes in Power &amp; Water between orders and heavy shipments and I know there is a  its got such a big influence on cash flow Jeff Bornstein are we thinking that operating cash for the year is going to be kind of towards the lower end of the $17 billion or is it close to call? Today  as we sit here today I would say we expect to be about the midpoint of the range.
So weve got a big fourth quarter in front of us no question about it.
If you think about last year we did $5.5 billion of CFOA industrial in the fourth quarter based on the earnings improvement what we expect to get from a working capital improvement by liquidating all that inventory.
In the fourth quarter we think weve got to pass to be about mid-point of the range between $14 billion and $17 billion.
We would have much higher industrial earnings John and much higher shipments.
So we ought to have a good fourth quarter Id say on cash.
Okay and then FX one of the dynamics at GE that makes you different is just you carry high value of your equipment versus other industrial companies.
So it could be for either of you I mean does FX and the decline of the euro and the yen does that open a door to Mitsubishi and Siemens really to become much more aggressive on the OE pricing that could influence sort of the dynamic going forward? How are you thinking about it based on if anything known so far? Id say listen a great part of our industrial footprint here is that we make protocol over the world.
So we can be flexible but where we make product if FX becomes that big an issue we can be flexible about where we make products.
So I dont think we are anticipating FX being a competitive issue for us.
I would echo that John I think the dynamic is really one where weve got the right global footprint to do whatever ultimately we need to do.
And our last question comes from Andrew Obin.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Hi Andrew.
Hi just a question.
You sort of highlighted H turbines being successful and some of your customers really looking into them but you also said that it requires some re-permitting.
How disruptive could it be and could we see a pause in North American cycle because of that? No as you know I think in North America I think a lot of that planning is already underway.
So I would say Andrew not much.
I think the whole product line is well positioned and its great to have a large block of turbines.
But we also are still seeing activity on the other turbines as well.
So I think other than the 13 weve got another 15 Hs that are out there kind of being globally which should enter the backlog sometime eminently and so we are just seeing pretty good momentum there and I dont see it disrupting the  lets say the flow from commitment to order to revenue.
Sure now quickly if I could just squeeze one more in.
Measurement and Control could you just give us a little bit more color? How its improving and where we are on the call within that division? So the organic weve done some dispositions there Andrew.
So I think the organic is up mid-single-digits kind of range 7% something like that.
Yes.
And so weve seen that be pretty decent in the last quarter.
So I would say excluding the disposition impacts the M&amp;C businesses has start to turn a little bit organically.
Orders in the third quarter were up 7% revenue was  I said in the script were up 8% and they are getting some operating leverage.
And so weve seen a little bit of more strength in oil and gas applications and industrial applications around controls.
And so we are hopeful that we are trending more positively here in the M&amp;C business as you know thats important its a very profitable business for oil and gas.
Matt I want to just Sure.
Before we cut off today I think we talked a lot about execution in the quarter but I wanted to elevate just a bit.
We really remain on track to get the company at 75% industrial 25% GE Capital while growing EPS every year this year next year and into the future.
And I think in addition to the good execution in the quarter the strategic moves the company continues to make to  with Alstom Appliances remixing GE Capital continues to make this a more valuable company.
So I think thats an addition to the current quarter operations.
I think we are executing on the portfolio to create a much more valuable company.
Great thank you Jeff.
Couple of quick announcements.
The replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital later today.
We have two upcoming investor events.
The first on Tuesday December 16 we will hold our Annual Outlook Meeting in New York City and on Friday January 23 well hold our fourth quarter 2014 earnings webcast.
As always we will be available today to take your questions.
Thank you Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Larissa and I will be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays fourth quarter webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued the press release presentation and GE Supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; our Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein.
Now Id like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Hey thanks Matt.
Good morning everybody.
Look we still see the global environment as generally positive with a lot of volatility.
GE had a strong fourth quarter with some elements better than we indicated in December.
Operating EPS was $0.56 up 6% led by industrial EPS which grew by 23%.
Orders grew by 3% which was 5% organically and our backlog expanded to a new record.
Industrial organic growth was up 9% and margins expanded by 50 basis points.
Our initiatives continued to deliver results.
Industrial CFOA was $7.2 billion up 64% reported in the quarter or 30% ex the 2013 NBCU taxes.
Capitals quarter was consistent with our expectations.
The US continued to strengthen as in Asia.
Some businesses are seeing more momentum like aviation healthcare.
Our oil and gas team executed well despite volatility.
Their underlying performance was revenue flat and earnings up 6%.
And we believe that our diverse and integrated model worked for investors in the quarter as it will in 2015.
We delivered on our key commitments for the year.
Industrial segment profits grew by 10% driven by 7% organic growth and 50 basis points of margin expansion.
GE Capital reduced ENI by $17 billion in the hit to earnings plan.
CFOA was in the middle of the range at $15.2 billion.
Free cash flow was $11.2 billion up 6% for the year.
Our capital allocation choices were in line with expectations.
On the M&amp;A front Alstom should be a financial and strategic driver.
Appliances were well priced and done a good point of cycle and the Synchrony spin will result in a substantial reduction in GE shares.
We are executing a valuable pivot at GE one that improves our business mix while delivering EPS growth and expanding returns.
Now for orders total orders grew by 3% which is pretty good in the environment.
As I said organically this is 5% in total with 3% in equipment and 8% growth in services.
Orders grew by 7% for the year.
We had strengthened services which was up 6% in the quarter and 10% for the year and we grew backlog by $17 billion year-over-year.
Power and water had a solid quarter but comps were impacted by the huge Algerian deal in 2013.
Without that orders were up 13% in the quarter and we now have 15 H orders with another 30 technical selections.
Oil and gas orders were down 4% organically consistent with our expectations.
Turbo machinery actually saw orders grow by 16% in the quarter.
Aviation orders grew by 15% and they end the year with a record backlog.
Aviation commercial spares grew by 37% in the quarter.
Importantly the US healthcare equipment orders grew by 17% demonstrating renewed strength in our biggest market.
Our success with the tier 4 locomotive continues.
We took 1355 orders in 2014 and are positioned for record shipments in 2015.
The US was strong with orders growing by 18% in the fourth quarter following a 25% growth in the third quarter.
And growth markets were mixed.
For instance Middle East North Africa was negative in the quarter due to the Algerian order I talked about earlier but was up 20% for the year.
And Asian growth market orders grew by 21%.
We closed 2014 with a backlog of $261 billion and in December we called out a 2015 organic growth range of 2% to 5% and we still feel good about this range.
For execution our team really executed well in the quarter with organic growth up 9% and margins up 50 basis points.
For the year industrial segment profit was up 10% with 7% organic revenue growth and 50 basis points of margin enhancement.
Our initiatives are driving growth ahead of our peers.
Our product lineup is quite strong.
The H turbine is winning in the market.
Our aviation wins are huge with 79% LEAP share to date.
The tier 4 continues to win.
Our healthcare products are gaining share in CT MR and ultrasound.
Aviation commercial spare shipments grew by 24% and power gen services grew revenue by 14%.
As I said earlier growth market revenues expanded by 7% in 14 with five of nine regions growing.
Also to update on a few of our adjacencies.
Life sciences grew earnings by 15% for the year.
Water hit a 10% operating profit rate in the quarter with 26% earnings growth for the year.
And we won the Boeing 777X on-board computing system.
This is a huge win and positions GE as a tier 1 avionics supplier.
Margins continue to be good story up 50 basis points for the year.
Simplification and services again are the big drivers.
We hit 14% of structural cost as a percentage of sales for the year with another $1.2 billion of costs out.
And corporate costs ex gains/restructuring and NBCU declined by more than $900 million.
Were seeing the impact of analytics on service productivity.
Service margins grew by 270 basis points in the quarter and we have momentum in every business and with an intensifying focus on gross margins and product costs we are on track for another year of margin growth in 2015.
Now on the cash for the quarter.
our industrial cash grew by 64% to $7.2 billion.
This is consistent with our expectations for the quarter and the year.
We finished the year by shipping a tremendous amount of volume and our teams did a great job on working capital which reduced by $2 billion in the fourth quarter.
Free cash flow for the year was $11.2 billion up 6% and the GE Capital dividend was $3 billion below the $6 billion they delivered in 2013.
We ended the year with substantial liquidity and financial strength.
GE Capital ended the year with tier 1 common ratio of 12.7% substantially above the regulatory guidelines.
We returned about $11 billion to investors in dividends and buyback and we remain on track for $12 billion to $15 billion of free cash flow and dispositions in 2015.
We will allocate our capital in line with the discussion we had in December.
Our priority is to execute on Alstom fund organic growth and continue to grow the dividend.
Remember that Synchrony at the current pricing should return $18 billion to $20 billion to investors in the share exchange.
In any environment where we have an uncertain macroeconomy it's important to talk about execution.
In 2014 in our performance you can see the tangible results of how we are running GE.
Our underlying business has significant operational momentum supported by the changes to how we are running GE day-to-day with more transparency and more accountability.
This was an excellent execution quarter for the team and now Jeff will give you the business details.
Thanks Jeff.
I will start with the fourth quarter summary.
We had revenues of $42 billion up 4% a quarter.
Industrial sales of $31 billion were up 8%.
And GE Capital revenues of $11.5 billion were up 4%.
Operating earnings of $5.6 billion were higher by 4%.
Operating earnings-per-share of $0.56 were up 6% with industrial EPS up 23% and GE Capital EPS down 17%.
Continuing EPS of $0.52 includes the impact of non-operating pension.
The net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations.
We had $0.01 impact in discontinued operations this quarter associated with WMC.
This was driven by reserve increase of $142 million to reflect WMCs current assessment of its loan-loss exposure based on recent settlement activity and negotiation.
WMC ended the quarter with $809 million of reserves flat with fourth quarter of 13.
As Jeff said CFOA for the year was $15.2 billion.
We had industrial CFOA of $12.2 billion and received $3 billion of dividends from GE Capital.
In the quarter industrial generated $7.2 billion of CFOA up 64% on a reported basis and up 30% excluding the impact of NBCU taxes from last year.
The GE tax rate for the quarter was 13% bringing the year-to-date rate to 17%.
In the quarter we benefited from the passage of the extenders bill and deductions from higher restructuring and impairments.
The GE Capital tax rate was 5% for the quarter and 2% for the year consistent with the low single digits estimate that we previously communicated.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Industrial segment revenues were up 6% reported and up 9% organically reflecting about two points of headwind from foreign exchange and one point from acquisitions and dispositions.
Foreign exchange was approximately $600 million drag on industrial segment revenue and about a $180 million impact on op profit for the quarter.
Despite this headwind industrial segment operating profit was up 9%.
GE Capital earnings were down 19% primarily driven by lower gains and tax benefits associated with the Swiss and BAY transactions in the fourth quarter of last year.
I will cover the dynamics of each of the business segments in a couple of pages.
First I will start with the other items page for the quarter.
We have $0.04 of restructuring and other charges at corporate over $0.02 of that related to ongoing industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to take actions to improve the industrial cost structure.
At $353 million pretax this was approximately $75 million higher than the planned and reflects the acceleration of some restructuring opportunities from 2015.
We also had a $217 million pretax charge for an impairment related to strategic investment in the energy space.
This investment has underperformed in the market but we continue to expect that to be long-term value in the asset.
In November of 2013 I reviewed with investors our plan to invest $1 billion to $1.5 billion in restructuring to accelerate the repositioning of our industrial cost footprint and position us to grow earnings through the pivot in 2015 and 16.
On the bottom of the page is the profile of those restructuring and other charges that we took in 2014 by quarter and the $0.01 gain associated with the Wayne disposition.
For the total year net charges were $0.11 per share or $1.7 billion pretax.
Ill give you an update on industrial cost dynamics.
On SG&amp;A we've made a lot of progress.
We ended the year with 14% SG&amp;A to sales which is down almost 2 points from 2013.
This was driven by a combination of cost-out efforts in the industrial segments and corporate.
For the year we took out $1.2 billion of structural costs in line with the $1 billion plus weve been communicating with you.
On the bottom left you can see industrial segment gross margins excluding corporate.
For the year segment gross margins were down 80 basis points which is driven entirely by negative mix as we grew equipment revenues faster than services particularly in wind GEnx and thermal.
As we discussed at the December outlook meeting Dan Heintzelman Jamie Miller and I are driving a focused initiative to improve industrial gross margins to an intense focus on product cost.
Similar to our programmatic approach around SG&amp;A we are targeting to improve gross margins by 50 basis points in 2015.
On the right side you can see the corporate operating costs.
The bar graph excludes gains restructuring and NBCU operations from 2013 so you can see our true operating expenses.
Weve taken significant actions on corporate costs with about $950 million reduction for the year.
This includes functional headquarter cost improvements lower global and growth spend operating pension and retiree health cost improvements and non-repeating charges in 2013 principally the EBX charge we took in the second quarter of 2013.
The focus on reducing corporate costs will continue into 2015 and we expect corporate costs to be about $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion for the year.
We will continue to reduce corporate costs but this will be partly offset by higher pension expenses as Jeff outlined during the outlook meeting in December.
Now going to the segments and start with power and water.
Orders in the fourth quarter totaled $9.5 billion down 8%.
Orders were higher by 13% excluding the Algerian mega deal in the fourth quarter of last year.
Equipment orders were down 12% driven by thermal down 62% as a result of a difficult comparison to last year's 270% increase including Algeria.
We had orders for 41 gas turbines in the quarter flat with last year excluding the Algerian deal.
In the fourth quarter we received an order for 2 H turbines bringing units and backlog to 15 Hs and weve been selected for another 30 units on projects and are bidding in additional 61 units as we speak.
Total gas turbine order count for the year finished at 105 units representing 18 GW of power.
Partially offsetting thermals orders decline was [indiscernible] which was higher by 66% and renewables was up 47% in the quarter.
Distributed power equipment growth was driven by turbines up over a 100% partly offset by a decline in engines.
The turbine strength was attributed to a large win in Egypt consisting of 20 trailer-mounted units 14 LM6000s and some balance of plant.
The 20TMs and six of the 14 LMs converted to sales in the quarter.
For the year DP recorded orders for 167 turbines versus 174 in 2013.
Renewables equipment orders were up 47% reflecting orders for 1251 turbines.
The US was up 16% including a 138 safe harbor units associated with the PTC extension.
And we saw a significant growth in Latin America the Middle East and in regions we took no orders in the fourth quarter of 13 including China and India.
Service orders were down 2% also driven by no repeat of the Algerian deal.
Excluding Algeria service orders grew 9% on strong transactional upgrades and outages.
AGPs in the quarter were 26 versus 25 last year bringing the total year AGP count to 80.
Power and water revenues of $9.4 billion in the quarter were up 22% with very strong equipment revenues up 37% and service revenues up 7%.
Equipment revenue was driven by strength in thermal up 64% with sales of 44 gas turbines versus 28 last year and renewables up 20% on 206 more wind turbines and DP up 33% in the quarter.
Operating profit in the quarter totaled $2.1 billion up 13% versus fourth quarter of 13 and earnings were driven by higher volume and cost productivity partially offset by negative value gap principally price and unfavorable mix of higher equipment sales versus services.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was down 12% year-over-year and margins in the quarter were down 190 basis points.
As you look into 2015 we expect to continue to grow services including upgrades and we anticipate a flat gas turbine market but expect to gain share.
We are planning for wind to deliver 3000 to 3200 units and distributed power will continue to be pressured as we look into 15.
Next oil and gas.
Oil and gas orders at $4.9 billion were down 10% in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the effects of FX and the Wayne disposition orders were down 4%.
Notwithstanding the volatility of oil prices in the fourth quarter we believe the relative impact was modest with more impact expected in 2015.
Equipment orders of $2.5 billion were down 15% reported down 9% organically.
The subsea orders were down 38% with no repeat of large fourth quarter of last year orders with Petrobras and ENI.
Downstream technology orders were down 46% driven by a large Shell order in the fourth quarter of last year in our distributed gas solutions business partially offset by strong growth of 7% in the downstream products platform.
Measurement and control equipment orders were up 6% organically as we continue to see improvement in end flow and process markets.
Drilling and surface orders were down 2% with drilling down 72% as expected partly offset by 7% growth in our surface business.
Turbo machinery was up 60% on natural gas orders in North America the Middle East and in Russia.
Service orders were down 4% but up 1% organically.
The TMS orders were down 10% on lower installations in the quarter partly offset by 6% organic growth in M&amp;C downstream technology growth of 16% and drilling and surface higher by 11%.
For the year total orders were flat with backlog up 1%.
Oil and gas revenues in the quarter of $5 billion were down 6% reported and flat organically driven by three points of FX and three points of disposition impact.
Equipment revenues were down 5% with subsea down 10% but flat excluding exchange.
M&amp;C was higher by 3% organically and downstream technology and drilling and surface were up 10% and 11% respectively.
Service revenues were down 6% primarily driven by TMS down 11% and M&amp;C down 5% but M&amp;C was up 12% organically.
Operating profit in the quarter was higher by 1% versus the fourth quarter of last year and up 6% organically driven by strong value gap and cost productivity offset by the effects of foreign exchange.
Margins expanded 110 basis points in the quarter and 100 basis points for the year.
As we outlined in December outlook meeting 2015 will be a challenging year for our oil and gas business.
[indiscernible] and the team are focused on executing on the cost-out actions to offset volatility and deliver on their commitments.
Next up is aviation.
Aviation demand continues be strong with revenue passenger kilometers November year-to-date up 6.1% on international routes and up 5.3% on domestic routes.
Freight growth was 4.4% November year-to-date.
Orders for aviation were strong up 15% in the quarter.
Equipment orders of $4.4 billion were higher by 8% and service orders grew 25%.
Equipment orders were principally driven by commercial engines.
GEnx orders of $1.2 billion were up 23% on large orders from American and Air France.
GE90 orders were up 2.5 times to $900 million in the quarter and LEAP and CFM recorded $1.2 billion of orders.
Our total win rate for the LEAP since launch is now at 79% on narrow-body aircraft.
Military equipment orders were down 59% driven by the slow military environment.
Service orders up 25% were driven by strong commercial space orders at $35.6 million a day up 37% and stronger military spares.
Orders for total year 2014 grew 8% and backlog grew 7% for the year to $134 billion.
Revenues in the fourth quarter were higher by 4% to $6.4 billion driven by commercial equipment revenues up 8% services up 3% and military equipment down 3%.
Commercial spares were strong up 24%.
We shipped 77 GEnx units in the quarter and 287 for the year.
Leverage and operating profit were strong with 12% growth in volume and positive value gap partly offset by mix and higher R&amp;D.
Op margins improve 140 basis points in the quarter.
Overall the aviation team had a strong quarter and a year and we expect strong performance to continue into 2015.
Next is healthcare.
Healthcare had a better quarter than the headline results would suggest.
Orders were up 1% in the quarter but up 4% excluding foreign exchange.
And the US was quite strong up 9%.
Latin America and China were both up 2% offset by Europe down 1% but up 5% organically.
Japan was down 23% driven by the consumption tax and reimbursement reform and the Middle East was down 26% mostly driven by Saudi.
Healthcare system orders were down 3% but up 2% organically driven by US imaging and ultrasound equipment orders which were up 12% in the quarter.
We saw growth across most modalities with particular strength in CT up 22% from our new revolution CT introduction and ultrasound up 15% from a new [indiscernible] on product in the womens health diagnostic space.
This was offset by softer orders in Japan Russia and the Middle East.
China orders were up 2% reflecting delays in government tenders we've seen over the last several quarters.
Life science orders up 13% driven by a bioprocess of 60% on very strong demand in the US and Europe offset partially by core imaging down 7%.
Revenues of $5.1 billion were flat but higher by 3% ex foreign exchange and HCS revenues were down 3% but up 2% organically and life science revenues were up 9% and up 6% organically.
Operating profit was down 4% but was up 1% organically.
The strong cost execution including 5% lower SG&amp;A was more than offset by price and foreign exchange.
Looking forward we expect the US market to continue to improve.
Although final industry figures have yet to be published we believe we are winning share in key modalities.
And China should grow modestly as we look into 2015.
The business will continue to drive structural product costs out as we move forward.
Next transportation which had a strong orders quarter up 62% with equipment orders up 107% and services higher by 19%.
In 2014 transportation had its strongest orders year ever at $9.6 billion up 89%.
Locomotive orders in the quarter were 284 units versus 70 last year driven by North America where we took orders for 235 additional tier 4 compliant units.
For the total year 2014 we received orders for 1355 tier 4 compliant locomotives.
Backlog for the year grew 43% to $21 billion with equipment higher by 148% and services higher by 22%.
Carloads grew strongly in North America up 4.4% in 2014 led by intermodal up 5.4%.
Commodities including agriculture were up 3.7% and petroleum was up 12.5% for the year.
In the fourth quarter petroleum volumes continued to grow up 16% year-over-year.
Revenues in the quarter were up 8% driven by locomotives up 8% services up 14% partly offset by mining down by 31%.
For the total year revenue was down 4% largely driven by mining.
Operating profit in the quarter was up 13% on higher locomotive volume material deflation and cost productivity partly offset by lower mining volume.
The transportation team has executed well and has positioned the business to capitalize on the new tier 4 requirements in 2015.
Next energy management which earned more in the fourth quarter than they earned in the entirety of 2013.
Orders in the quarter were down 2% largely driven by softer marine orders and power conversion which was down about 16% partially offset by digital energy up strongly at 17% and industrial solutions up 5%.
Backlog grew 9% to $5 billion.
Revenues were down 2% but up 2% organically.
Power conversion revenues grew 6% digital energy grew 1%.
Industrial solutions was down 6%.
Operating profit of $113 million was higher by 2.5 times on strong value gap and cost execution.
For the year we earned $246 million of operating profit up 124%.
Execution continues to improve and we expect substantial improvements again in 2015.
In appliances and lighting revenue in the quarter was up 5%.
Appliance revenues were up 8% driven by strong volume.
And industry core units were up 8% with both retail and the contract markets up 8% as well.
Lighting revenues were down 1% on lower traditional product demand which was down 15% and more than offset the strong LED lighting growth of 72% in the quarter.
LED now makes up 27% of lighting revenues up from 16% in the fourth quarter of last year.
Operating profit of $180 million was up 32% in the quarter and margins expanded by 160 basis points.
Next I will cover our GE Capital.
GE Capitals revenue of $1.5 billion was up 4% primarily from lower marks and impairments.
Net income of $1.9 billion was down 19% principally driven by lower gains and tax benefits including those related to last years portfolio exits including the Swiss and BAY Bank transactions partially offset by lower credit cost marks and impairments.
ENI excluding liquidity of $353 billion was down $17 million 5% from last year and down $2 billion sequentially Nonstrategic ENI was down 12 billion to 132 billion or 8% versus last year.
Net interest margin in the quarter at 5% was essentially flat.
GE Capitals tier 1 common ratio on a BASEL 1 basis remains in a strong position and ended the year with 12.7%.
This is up approximately 60 basis points from the third quarter and 150 basis points year-over-year.
Our liquidity levels are strong ending the quarter at $76 billion.
This includes $13 billion attributable to Synchrony.
Our commercial paper program remains stable at $25 billion and we had $10 billion of long-term debt issuance for the year.
Excluding the activity related to Synchrony in 2015 we have already used for 7 billion of long-term debt as part of our total year plan of around 20 billion.
Right side of the page asset quality trends continue to be stable with significant improvements in our mortgage portfolio driven primarily by the  half a billion dollar non-performing loan portfolio in our UK home lending business.
We generated a small gain during the quarter and the move of our Hungarian bank to held for sale.
We expect to complete the exit of the Hungarian during the first half of 2015.
In terms of segment performance commercial lending and leasing business ended the quarter with a $172 billion of assets down 1% to last year largely driven by foreign exchange.
Global on-book volume was $12 billion down 10%.
However we continue to see strengthening in the US largely in equipment financing with volume up 4%.
New business returns in both lending and equipment were largely in line with the first three quarters of the year.
Earnings of $549 million were up 109% driven by lower marks and impairments.
In 2014 the CLL business earned $2.3 billion up 16%.
The consumer segment ended the quarter with $136 billion of assets up 3% from last year with earnings of $1.1 billion down 45%.
Our share of Synchrony earnings was $451 million down 3% driven by minority interest and partially offset by core growth.
Consistent with last quarter as a now publicly traded company CEO Margaret Keane and the team will host their own investor call later this morning.
Separation efforts remain on track.
Excluding Synchrony assets were down 17% as we continue to reduce our presence in nonstrategic portfolios.
Earnings excluding Synchrony were $686 million down 57% driven by the non-repeat of gains in and benefits recorded last year for the Swiss and Bay transactions partially offset by $594 million gain associated with the sale of the Nordics consumer platform.
Just as a reminder as a result of the accounting guidelines roughly half that gain was recognized in prior quarters as tax benefits and GE Capital corporate these benefits were reversed in the fourth quarter and again was taken in the consumer segment resulting in a net gain in GE Capital of $300 million in the fourth quarter.
In 2014 the consumer segment earned $3 billion down 30%.
In real estate assets of $34 billion were down 11% versus prior year.
The equity book is down 35% from a year ago to $9 billion.
Net income of $299 million was up 134% driven by higher gains and portfolio earnings partially offset by higher impairments.
In the current quarter we sold 350 properties from our real estate equity book with a book value of about $2.1 billion for a $328 million gain.
In 2014 the real estate business earned $1 billion down 42% on lower gains.
In the verticals GECAS earned $218 million up 207% driven by lower impairments partially offset by lower gains and lower assets.
Overall the portfolio is in great shape and we finished the quarter with zero delinquencies and three aircraft on the ground.
New volume remained strong at $2 billion up 50% with attractive returns in line with the first three quarters of the year.
For the year GECAS earned $1 billion was up 17% from prior year.
The Milestone acquisition continues to progress and we expect to close during the first quarter of 2015 pending regulatory approvals.
Energy finance earned $111 million down 5% in the quarter in line with lower assets.
EFS volume was up 31% year-over-year at a very attractive return.
In 2014 EFS business earned $401 million down 2%.
Overall Keith and the team continued to execute the portfolio strategy and delivered solid operating results.
As we look forward to 2015 we expect GE Capital would generate about $0.60 on an EPS basis as Jeff discussed last month during the annual outlook meeting.
We expect GE Capital to earn approximately $1.5 billion in the first quarter of the year.
Lastly I wanted to spend a minute and talk about the framework for 2015 and cover four points.
On the left you have our segment outlook as Jeff shared in December.
Overall there is no change to that framework.
On the right side first positively we're seeing strength in the US healthcare market.
Orders were strong up 9% and equipment orders were up 17% with particular strength in imaging and ultrasound.
Orders have been on a positive trend in the US since the first quarter of 2014 and after the final fourth quarter results we're more encouraged that this trend will continue into 2015.
Second is aviation which we feel is stronger.
Spares orders grew 25% in 2014 and we are targeting high single-digit growth in 2015.
Revenue passenger kilometers and freight miles continue to be strong and low Jet A should be a meaningful positive for our customers in this space.
When you think about currency we plan 2015 assuming a stronger dollar but weve seen some continued strengthening since the December meeting.
Assuming the euro at today's rates for the entire year foreign exchange would have a modest impact about a penny a share so very manageable in the context of the total company.
In December we also outlined our expectations for oil and gas with the backdrop of oil at $60 to 65 a barrel.
Since then prices have fallen further.
When we planned the year we relied on multiple scenarios including a further fall in oil prices.
Lorenzo and the team are laser focused on executing against their backlog and their costs.
The team is reducing employment executing restructuring and simplification projects to materially reduce their cost structure all predicated on a tougher scenario.
Additionally across the company we expect to realize some incremental benefits in direct material and other logistical and variable costs as a result of lower fuel costs.
Oil and gas represented about 15% of our industrial segment earnings in 2014.
We believe that within the context of the company portfolio the potentially tougher oil and gas scenario is manageable and consistent within our framework.
With that I would like to pass it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Jeff.
We remain comfortable with our framework for 2015.
We expect the industrial EPS of between $1.10 and $1.20 behind solid organic growth and margin expansion.
Corporate costs will be substantially lower.
Remember we funded $0.11 of uncovered restructuring in 2014.
In 2015 we will offset restructuring with gains.
In addition we should have the impact from six months of Alstom.
Capital results are on track with Synchrony timing the main variable.
Free cash flow and dispositions are on track for the $12 billion to $15 billion we spoke about in the year.
And again cash return to investors depends on Synchrony timing but it would be substantial if we do the split this year.
So closing the year and since the outlook meeting the GE world remains balanced.
There are always puts and takes in the global economy.
For instance the US is quite strong which has a positive impact in businesses like healthcare and aviation and the price of oil has declined even further since December.
Our job is to manage the company through volatility and while we see the potential for risk to oil and gas based on current oil prices we are aggressively working offsets through cost actions and positive opportunities elsewhere in GE.
We are also seeing stronger momentum in several other businesses.
In total this demonstrates the strength of our portfolio approach.
Looking back in 2014 out of eight industrial businesses three beat their plan three met their plan and two missed their plan.
But together we did what we set out to do growing core earnings by 10%.
In addition let me give you more insight to the plan I gave you in December.
We have an internal plan that is above the midpoint of the range I gave you.
The business results that delivered that plan are embedded in our teams new incentive compensation for the year.
In other words our leaders achieved their IC when we hit an EPS that is above the midpoint of this range.
Now I want you to have transparency on how we think about the world and manage our team.
Our targets encompass a thoughtful approach to the environment in a broad range of macro dynamics.
So let me reiterate.
We feel comfortable with our framework.
2015 is an important year for the company and we plan to deliver for you.
And now Matt back to you and lets take some questions.
All right.
Thanks Jeff.
We will take your questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
Thanks for the color.
This is a better presentation than we've seen in a while so thanks for that.
I know this is going to be really tough to answer but it's going to be really important for us to try to ring-fence the oil and gas profit downside.
Is there some sort of scenario analysis you could share with us or at least a sensitivity that -- hey if we are off 35% on upstream what kind of profit drop you'll see on that? This is Jeff.
Scott the way we thought about it particularly when we went through it in December with you is we evaluated multiple scenarios including a general expectation at that point that wed be down 0 to 5% but we evaluated scenarios that were down beyond that on lower oil prices.
And when we talked about the range with you of the $70 $80 in total dollar -- 20 industrially we included in that our view of what those downside scenarios are.
So I think you got to step back and look at it  oil and gas is 15% of our segment earnings in industrial being down beyond 5% I think is manageable within the context of the industrial portfolio.
And I think importantly Lorenzo and the team are like laser focused on driving the cost and the productivity in their business and the programs they launched were the programs needed to support a lower downside scenario than what we even talked about in December.
So I think we feel reasonably comfortable -- as comfortable as you can be that within the context of what we've shared with you that we can manage it inside the portfolio our industrial portfolio.
I think Scott I would add to what Jeff said just to say I think any time in our world we have multiple hedges and we have the hedge inside the oil and gas business driven by the cost action they are taking we have other upside of what lower oil prices mean inside the company.
And there is businesses inside the company that are doing better as we close the year.
And so I really -- I think we've envisioned different scenarios for oil and gas and we still feel quite comfortable on the way  the way we described the company in December.
Because there wasn't anything additional I don't think that was said on the call on Alstom and there was a bit of a price adjustment we saw in the quarter; I think it was something like $700 million or something.
Can you give us a sense -- and I know you are probably five months away from close here.
But can you give us at least some sense of your confidence in the asset? And given the new world that the offsets -- I mean we've got a better euro environment for Alstom; but on the other hand you've got some North Sea oil headwind.
So can you give just a better sense of your confidence of the puts and takes of that transaction and maybe a little color around the $700 million adjustment? Yes why dont I start with the adjustment and then Jeff can give you some color on the company.
So effectively what we -- there were several points within the contract that we are open to negotiate post the signing.
We made a couple of adjustments it's about 250 more that we will pay at closing.
Part of that was a payment were making at our request.
We wanted to strike the legal entities -- we want to restructure it and buy into we wanted to change a bit for our benefit long-term in terms of taxes and otherwise.
And so part of that 250 million was a payment to ask them to close differently from a legal entity perspective than what was originally contemplated.
The second was we originally agreed to about a five year use of the Alstom brand we extended that in this agreement to 25 years that was about $85 million associated with that and there were other very small items.
I think you will hear Alstom talk about 400 million they are counting about a $100 million of interest that they contemplated owing us on cash that they used over the course of the year.
We never modeled that we never counted that.
So we see it is about a $250 million euro adjustment to the purchase price but we get a lot of long-term value as a result of that legal entity restructure.
So I would say Scott there are always puts and takes their grid business is reasonably strong Id say the renewables business is consistent with -- and also reasonably strong I'd say the power business is in a flat market kind of the same market we see.
Clearly the euro devaluation helps the purchase price and other than that the puts and takes are pretty consistent with how we kind of underwrote the business going in.
So their year-end is in March and we don't expect -- we don't really have a change in closing date.
We still expect -- we still for the purpose of the plan plan on July first for everything more or less.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
So Jeff you talked about a pretty limited impact from the dollar on your plan.
But I'm just wondering maybe if you could just address how the strong dollar and the weak oil price could impact the broader emerging market demand for infrastructure.
I wonder are you seeing any backlog or project deferrals as a result of that? So I will start.
There is multiple dimensions of those obviously.
My comment was at about 1.50 and 1.60 weve opened up softer than that this morning.
Its about a penny a share.
I mean we do hedges  we are not a 100% hedged we hedge all our transactional exposure to the extent we can we do -- we are subject to some translation and we do very short-term hedging around earnings in a quarter.
So there will be some volatility associated with currency but I think my point was that in the context of the company we're not at a point yet where we think it's something that's not manageable across our portfolio.
We do have natural hedging we have the ability in some of our businesses to move our manufacturing base globally which allows us to take advantage of changes in currency and in a couple of our businesses where that matters we are actively looking at our build plan for the year to make sure we take as much advantage of that as possible.
I would in the short run here we've seen very little that I am aware of very little impact on our order performance as a result of currency.
That may play out more in 2015 but through fourth quarter of this year we've seen very little of that.
And I would say on  you had a multi  both currency and oil price I think if you took a tour around the world look our biggest market is still the US.
The US had orders of 25% in the third quarter and 18% in the fourth quarter.
So I would always start by reminding people that actually the US is the best we've seen since the financial crisis and then what we call rising Asia Nigel which is really China India ASEAN stuff like that those are actually quite positive for us right now from a order standpoint.
And then the resource rich countries I think are going to be mixed depending on what your cost position is and things like that.
So we still I would say on an underlying basis see pretty good underlying demand in the Middle East but clearly places that are marginal producers like Iraq or Venezuela things like that.
Those are going to be places that were not counting on much business in 2015.
So its kind of a mixed bag.
And in Europe  Europe for us is flattish Id say if you look at the organic and if the stimulus increases European demand thats a good thing for us.
And then just switching to the mix in 2015 and obviously tremendous margin expansion on services in 4Q how does the 150 bps look between service and OE in 15? And how does the mix shake out on the 2% to 5% between OE and service? I think if you look at in the 2014 I would say product margins were flattish and service margins were up.
And look we described to you guys -- we described to our investors in December kind of an extremely intense focus on gross margins and product costs.
And so our expectation is that delivers in 2015 so were looking to get some OE margin enhancement in 15 along with the continued service enhancement and then Jeff do you know on the revenue mix? Well I will just say on the revenue mix equipment service would be a little less impactful next year than it was in 14.
That's our plan.
I think the gross margin focus that we have going which is particularly centered on product service cost is driving at the OE market  Thank you.
The next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey a couple questions.
First for you Jeff Immelt a macro strategic question regarding balancing your framework priorities.
And then I've got one for Jeff Bornstein about truing up on tax and restructuring benefits.
So to start on the macro question you're pretty clear you're in a volatile environment.
But I'd love to get an update on how you are balancing the framework priorities.
You've got longer-term big mix changes and could be near-term disruptive to the organization; and then meanwhile you're on an EPS framework with a cadence of earnings quarterly earnings.
And I've always called it a bit like trying to change a car tire going down the highway at 55 miles an hour.
So how are you balancing these big mix changes versus earnings expectations for 2015? The best way I can describe it Deane is since I would say -- since 2013 inside the company or even longer we've been kind of talking about it executing around this kind of mix shift that weve described to investors.
I think Jeff earlier in the presentation talked about the investments we've made in restructuring in 2014 to kind of set us up for 2015 and beyond which again everybody in the leadership team is on.
So the way Id look at this Deane is on the industrial side I think the teams  their world is in front of them their incentives are in they know exactly what they need to do.
Weve got Alstom coming in appliances going out and that is that team is laserlike focused between Dave Joyce and Lorenzo and Steve Bolze and those guys know exactly what they need to do in this environment.
At GE Capital look were just going to make it smaller if we can as time goes on.
Were going to execute on Synchrony and thats what the Capital team is doing.
And so I think you got to look at it in terms of every team knows exactly what they're pieced of how we need to execute here.
There is no  absolutely no confusion on industrial side and financial services were just going to look for opportunities to continue to make it smaller.
We talked about 75:25 as a goal but weve really run the place with that as an output function and an input function.
We run the place to execute well on our businesses and we think 75:25 is the output.
And then for Jeff Bornstein maybe you can true us up on the tax outlook for 2015 and restructuring benefits that should carry in and anything unique about the first-quarter tax? Sure.
So industrial tax we think is going to be the core rate it will be what it has been which is high teens.
We will do the appliance transaction that will be a high tax transaction which will bump the rate up to low 20s for next year.
And I think that's consistent with what weve communicated.
The plan will probably be higher in the early part of the year lower in the latter part of the year on industrial tax.
On restructuring same discussion that were going to do restructuring next year.
It is critical to delivering on everything weve talked about.
We've assumed the gains the appliances of signalling transaction happen midyear we will do restructuring in the first half of the year before those gains manifest themselves.
But we still believe that for the total year our restructuring and gains and to some degree the impact of mortality are all going to offset were not going to be doing today anyway naked restructuring.
What's the carryforward of restructuring benefits in 2015 from actions in 2014? What weve got to now make up in our cost roll is about $500 million.
We will get an incremental benefit for new restructuring we do in 15 as you know well get partially depending on where we execute those projects.
But the carry through from I would say both 13 and 14 is about $500 million for 2015.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Hey could you just give us a better sense of the detail around the gains that happened within GE Capital in the quarter? Just the major gains including -- as well as the real estate side but across the whole business.
And did the Norges thing come through all that? So I will start with Norges.
So we did close Norges.
The impact in the quarter was just over $300 million.
The headline impact in the segment reporting in retail was a full 600 million and thats partly because we did the tax accounting earlier in the year that recognized the tax benefits for about half the gain.
We reversed that in the fourth quarter and the full effect of the disposition took place in the fourth quarter in the retail segment.
So within the fourth quarter about $300 million $600 million for the year.
In addition I talked about we sold the nonperforming loan portfolio in our UK home lending business about a half billion dollars at a very small gain associated with that about $20 million but a big deal for our UK portfolio.
I talked about $2.1 billion of real estate sales in the quarter that led by Japan multifamily that we sold that specifically was about 229 million and the total real estate gains for quarter were closer to $330 million.
And that made the bulk of where GE Capital gains were in the quarter.
And then just maybe pausing on the order price profile for the quarter and the trend line in some of these.
I know we've talked about oil and gas a little bit; it was down 20 basis points and power and water down 70.
Are you seeing pressure in the existing backlog at all in terms of any kind of renegotiation activity happening? And also currency are you also feeling any pressure? We talked about currency a little bit but are you feeling any pressure to use pricing to make up for any of the segments whether it's power healthcare or lighting where you might have broader international competition any of that coming through? And then healthcare I guess as part of that same thing which is -- I know this is the business model to be down every quarter and take costs down by more.
But that can't be a good thing for too long.
So maybe some thoughts on that too.
Steve here is what I would say.
I would say most of the pricing impact that we see in the fourth quarter is more mix driven than anything else.
For instance in power youve got -- most of the heavy duty gas turbine action is in the edge that really is not in the base yet but those are higher price bigger units little more competitive scenarios but not a lot to talk about.
Oil and gas we really haven't seen it yet nor have we seen  there are some initial letters and stuff like that on pricing but no real action.
I think that's all -- again I don't think weve seen it in the fourth quarter.
We haven't seen it yet but this is early days.
So I think there is going to be  theres still going to be chatter out there.
So I don't really take all the stuff that's happened necessarily in the fourth quarter as what's going to happen throughout the rest of 15.
I just think we have to be ready on all fronts and I would say no conversation all around currency and anything along that yet.
We will see how that plays out.
In terms of healthcare look I think youre right.
This has been the historical business model but I also think kind of what we are doing with Steve with Jeff and Jamie Dan Heintzelman is were ripping apart the critical axis is gross margins across each one of these businesses.
And I think in healthcare managing the pricing is going to be a key part of how we get enhanced gross margin improvement in that specific business.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Just to make one thing clear what were the impairments in the fourth quarter? Total gains of $650 million in GE Capital what were the impairments? Hold on one sec I will get it for you.
Whats your next question Steve and I will run that down? My next question would be another detail question.
Lufkin specifically in artificial lift we've seen some varying reports on inventory destocking.
I think PCP yesterday talked about their oil and gas business implied down like 50% to 60% in some of their -- on a quarterly run rate basis showed some destocking.
Did you guys see destocking in your artificial lift business the Lufkin business? Not yet Steve.
Look when you look at like revenues in the quarter were up mid single digits in Lufkin.
Orders were kind of down mid-single digits.
So not enough to read into.
Again a lot of this I think is  and oil and gas is yet to play out.
But I would say the fourth quarter was pretty much inside of our expectations for Lufkin.
And then just one last question just on cash.
Jeff just philosophically around the dividend you guys are bumping up against an 80%-ish type of payout ratio on the free cash when it comes to the dividend.
I mean there is a pretty significant -- it's a big dividend relative to your free cash flow.
Is that dividend viewed -- I mean is there a fine line here given obviously the location of cash makes it a little bit complicated as far as moving things around and being able to pay that? Would you -- is there a fine line as a percentage of free cash flow that you don't mind going over industrial free cash flow and paying the dividend? I mean is it -- and as far as growth do you view the dividend it's a must-grow over time? I'm just trying to get my hands around how much you defend that dividend.
Look Steve youve got $16 billion of cash on the balance sheet right now.
Were going to do Alstom this year.
You are still sitting on top of a substantial excess cash in GE Capital.
Look I view the dividend as being key.
We have choice -- we have capital allocation choices we make.
Were going to continue to grow our free cash flow as time goes on and were comfortable with where we are right now.
Id say listen weve been running at slightly about a 50% payout ratio.
I think long-term we expect to be slightly less or to about 50% payout ratio.
So as we work through the pivot through 2016 weve made a conscious decision that we are going to run a little harder to our target payout ratio but the dividend as Jeff said is certainly a priority for us and very important to our retail base.
And I would add Steve just one  just something that I just want to make sure people don't forget and that is look the Synchrony transaction is effectively going to be at $20 billion buyback that whenever we execute that so that's a big  another big capital allocation choice it's just going to be executed in a different way but thats quite meaningful to our investors as well.
Sure and the impairments? Yes impairment.
So as you would expect impairments year-over-year were down substantially about $550 million.
You recall in the fourth quarter of last year within CLL we took the moment of charge and we took a little  we took the second charge on business aircraft and then the big item in the fourth quarter of last year was the GECAS aircraft impairment.
So year-over-year impairments were better by $550 million pretax.
But in the quarter we really didn't have a lot of big impairments we had one big impairment on a real estate property domestically for just under $100 million pretax and that was really about it of consequence.
The next question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research Partners.
Hey just a couple quick ones.
I know we are running tight on time.
Could you just reconcile the comment on Lufkin orders down mid single digit versus drilling orders down 72%? I know obviously there is a little bit more but that's a little bit of difference there.
But that sounds like a fairly sizable disconnect.
Yes look I am just looking at fourth quarter orders Jeff.
Yes so we report Lufkin separately from drilling and surface.
Drilling and surface orders were up 4% in the quarter.
So identical to what you would expect in this environment and Lufkin was down 6% in the quarter.
So I would say generally if you look at the  as I went through the script if you look at the orders for oil and gas in the quarter they are not necessarily what you would expect in this environment.
The things you would be -- think would be stronger including downstream and the surface related stuff turbo machinery were good to slightly down and the things you think would be most impact the upstream stuff was a little stronger in the quarter year over year.
So I think were way too early  you are not yet seeing an impact on behavior with our customer in the current order rate.
Thats to come in 2015.
You did say drilling down 72% is that right? No.
Drilling was down surface was up.
So drilling POPs were down substantially but surface was up.
We report it as drilling and surface.
And I know the H price is not in the index but can you give some color on how that's pricing versus expectation? Well its not in the index I would say without giving away any real competitive information I would say sequentially pricing is improving order to order.
And then just one really quick one on FX.
Is the $0.01 headwind or so that you are talking about for 2015 now incremental to what you were thinking previously? And the reason I ask is you had $0.02 in Q  Yes Jeff.
So what I was trying to say was when we did the framework in December if you look at that versus I did that math 115 and 116 the move from December to 115 to 116 for us meant that we were working with a penny headwind that we would figure out.
But again I would come back to there is other mitigants to a lot of those stuff.
I am not changing guidance in any way.
I am not changing  Were trying to give you guys the pieces because I think thats  we want you to know how we think about it but there's a lot of other things inside the company that we use  just like we did in Q4.
The next question comes from Andrew Obin of Bank of America Hey just a question two questions.
The first part of the reason for creating oil and gas was actually to deliver to national oil companies in an environment like this.
Could you share some of the conversations that you are having with these customers? And how are you guys positioning versus the competition? And are you seeing that your structure is actually making a difference? From the outside how do we know that it does make a difference? Well look I would say again there is not one-size-fits-all but I think clearly the national oil companies look differently at this cycle than some of the integrated oil companies do.
So I would just say in the case of a company like Saudi Aramco they are going to continue to produce and there is a number of strategies that are associated with that similarly to a company like Petronas and things like that.
And then there's other places that are in more stress.
So look I would just echo back Andrew to some comment I made in December we like the oil and gas business we like how we are positioned in it and we think these cycles give us an opportunity to pick up market position similar to what we did in the aviation business and the power business and other businesses.
But sort of going through private conversations with customers I can just say that we still think with a lot of the NOCs or a certain segment of the NOCs theres still potentially going to be some good business to be done in 2015.
And just to follow up what's the latest strategic thinking on energy management and the progress that they are making? Look I think we're in a pretty good  were in a pretty good strategic position.
This is a business where Alstom adds some competitive capability and scale and our pathway has to be one that gets us to margins that are more competitive with the ABBs and the other players in this industry and that's -- and we can accept nothing less.
So I think the way I look at it right now Andrew to win we expect margin accretion and earnings growth year after year in this business and here's one where the ceiling is very high in terms of what we should be able to do in this business.
Thank you.
Next question is from Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
Hey maybe first for Jeff Bornstein.
When you think about driving this thing from down 80 bps gross margin this year to up 50 how do you see that phasing through 2015 numerically? And also where are you and Dan and Jamie at in terms of what you're doing to drive that? So right now Shannon we're doing very deep dives with each business and basically I hate to get too tactical but basically were starting with the outcome and building back the project decks from there.
So on every element of product and service costs direct material inflation deflation direct material usage warranties scrap operating cost per hour of our different facilities every labor etc.
building the project decks that support delivering at each of the segment levels their share of gross margin improvement at the segment level.
And that's where we are today.
Jamie in parallel with that is continuing to drive and support the businesses with the ERP which is a big part of giving them visibility and driving our ability to consolidate etc.
So we're in the process right now of building very detailed action oriented plans that have every dollar of cost between sales and the gross margin line owned by somebody with a plan.
So that's where we are today.
I would say this is going to accelerate throughout the year.
Were early in the process now but I am quite confident if we get out of the way we have programmatically around SG&amp;A I think we can make a big difference here and I think there's a lot of opportunity as Jeff said earlier particularly around original equipment margins.
And then in terms of just the US healthcare strength can you give us a little more color there? What are you hearing from customers and where do you really think that market is and decision-making is at this point? So Shannon the only two data points I can give you is just kind of what we saw which was pretty good -- we don't have the market data yet so we don't know share and things like that.
But we have good products and good activity and we got to believe that we gained a little bit of share.
And I would say the other data point I can give you is conversational which is  as I see hospital CEOs when I travel the circuit you just get a lot more positive in terms of their ability to know what the next few years are going to be like to do their planning to do their growth plans and things like that and that didnt exist lets say 24 months ago.
So were guardedly optimistic but it's too early to call it a trend I would say.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hi thanks.
Just on the healthcare business you talked about how the Q4 performance was something of a blip.
But I guess the profit drivers down price and FX probably persist through the whole of this year.
So maybe talk a little bit about why you're so confident that healthcare earnings are going to rebound.
Again I would say Julian on the comment you made this is  as Jeff went through in his presentation that there is always going to be concerned about FX and stuff like that in this business.
Nonetheless the US is just a big powerful driver of healthcare profitability mix things like that.
And so when I look at 2015 that in addition to momentum weve got in life sciences and stuff like that I think that offsets all the other lets say headwinds we might see in terms of FX and otherwise.
Julian Id just add I didnt if you took it that way I apologize.
I didnt mean describe the healthcare performance as a blip.
But what I meant to say was organically the performance was better than headline when you think about the impacts of FX.
So and I completely agree with Jeff I mean when you  the developed markets feel like they are getting stronger for healthcare were going to have challenges and some  Russia or some of the emerging markets.
But the bulk of our percentage wise -- the US is still the biggest single market we have in healthcare and we feel much better about the strength there than we have in the past.
And then just the gross margin up by 50 bps.
What are you including for price or for value gap in there? Because I guess value gap was a decent tailwind in 2014.
Do you think it's flattish this year? I think in our working construct for the year we expect value gap to be roughly what it was this year.
So we ended this year at about $300 million net value gap and $300 million value gap.
And our expectation is that that will likely be what 2015 look like.
End of Q&amp;A There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Cribbins do you have any additional remarks? Yes thank you.
Before wrapping up just a couple of quick announcements.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We will be distributing our quarterly supplement for GE Capital later today.
On Friday April 17 we will hold our first quarter 2015 earnings webcast.
Great.
Matt I just want to reiterate as we close.
The framework weve got for 15 really has a ton of strength and thoughtfulness in it in terms of the scenarios that were seeing globally.
So I would just echo that and just reiterate we talked about the new compensation plan that the leaders have inside the company that really has each and every business aligned to deliver right in a very effective way for our investors as we go forward Matt.
So I would just make those two points in closing.
Thank you.
And as always we will be available later today for questions.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Joanna and I will be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator instructions] As a reminder the conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for todays conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to host todays first quarter 2015 earnings webcast.
Regarding the materials for this webcast we issued the press release presentation and supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As a reminder elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Please interpret them in that light.
For todays webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein.
Now Id like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Matt.
GE had a good quarter in a slow growth and volatile environment just to give you an economic read from the world of GE.
We see the US getting a little bit better everyday Europe is slightly improving overall China remains good for GE.
Resource rich markets are mixed.
We expect to have positive revenue in places like the Middle East Latin America and Africa.
Meanwhile Russia and Australia will be tough.
We are seeing the world that we plan for.
Industrial EPS grew by 14% despite having $0.03 of uncovered restructuring.
Operating EPS was $0.31 excluding the impact of the capital announcement.
Organically orders were up 1% and revenue grew 3%.
Industrial segment profit grew by 9% or 12% organically with margins up 120 basis points.
Oil and gas had a solid first quarter.
Organically they were positive in orders with revenue flat.
Profit was up 11% organically.
The oil and gas market remains volatile with some segments under pressure.
However our diversified oil and gas platforms delivered in the first quarter.
We are on track for our targets in 2015.
We are running the company well.
We spent a bit of time last week discussing capital allocation.
I would only reiterate that we are on full execution of our GE Capital plan.
All of our CFOA targets and capital allocation goals are in line with our framework.
We remain on track for industrial EPS of $1.10 to $1.20.
Orders were up 1% organically and we finished the quarter with $263 billion of backlog.
Again oil and gas orders were up 2% organically as they closed a few big Subsea deals.
Orders pricing declined slightly.
Service orders were up 3% organically with broad based strength.
Aviation spares grew by 31% and remained robust.
We remain on track for strong orders in predictivity in 2015.
New installed orders for healthcare IT grew substantially in the first quarter.
We launched asset performance management in the manufacturing space.
Orders for transportation software and solutions are planned to be up 50% for the year and we expect consistent growth for wind power up [and EGPs] [ph] for the year.
We saw some encouraging signs in the quarter.
Aviation remains very strong recording $800 million on LEAP orders.
The LEAP has won 79% of all neo and max orders.
LEAP engines for Neo and C-919 are flying and the LEAP for Boeing is in the test plane and flying soon.
The engine is ahead of schedule.
The LEAP engine has been one of our most successful product launches in history.
Healthcare equipment orders grew by 5% in the US.
Transportation continues to record global wins and they received a $350 million order in Angola.
Power conversion grew orders by 10% and we have solid orders performance in China of 54%.
We expected power to have tough comps in the first quarter.
In addition they saw several orders slip into the second quarter.
But overall we see good demand for units in North America Japan Saudi North Africa Mexico and Brazil and we anticipate a strong power orders recovery in the second quarter.
Orders support our organic growth target for the year.
Our businesses executed well in the quarter.
Organic revenue growth was up 3%.
Geographic growth is balanced.
US was up 2% and growth markets were up 6%.
We saw strength in China up 6% Middle East up 19% Africa up 11% and Latin America up 13%.
From a business standpoint we had organic growth in six or seven segments and we have forecast organic growth of up 2% to 5% and remain on track for that.
Margins continue to be a good story with growth of a 120 basis points.
We have targeted 50 basis points of gross margin expansion for the year and we hit 90 basis points in the first quarter.
We had favorable mix value gap and productivity in the quarter.
Meanwhile simplification continues to drive good results and we are seeing more benefits ahead.
One of the goals for 2015 is to expand margins in both equipment and service.
We grew equipment margins by 120 basis points and service by 70 basis points in the quarter.
We are making progress on margins as a company.
Industrial CFOA was $900 million.
It was less than expected.
Our shortfall was driven by some aviation supply chain disruptions in power and water orders timing.
We will recover this in the second quarter.
At the half we plan on CFOA to be significantly higher than a year ago and we are on track for CFOA goals for the year.
Our balance sheet remains quite strong.
In the future we will continue to look at ways to achieve a more efficient balance sheet.
From a capital allocation standpoint Alstom remains on track for the second half close.
We always expected that this deal would get a second look in the US and Europe.
Alstom is impacted by similar volatile market dynamics as GE.
But we continue to see this as a good strategic international fit for us and we intend on completing a deal that is good for investors.
Now over to Jeff.
Thanks Jeff.
I will start with the first quarter summary.
As we discussed last week we took a significant day one charge related to the exit of the non-vertical assets of GE Capital.
On this page I will start with the underlying financial performance of the company excluding those charges and then on the next page Ill walk you back to our reported financials.
We had revenues of $33.1 billion which were down 3% in the quarter driven by GE Capital which was down 7%.
Industrial sales of $23.8 billion were down 1%.
Operating earnings of $3.1 billion were down 5% on lower GE Capital earnings.
Operating earnings per share of $0.31 were down 6% with Industrial EPS up 14% and GE Capital EPS down 21%.
Continuing EPS of $0.27 includes the impact of non-operating pensions and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations.
As Jeff said CFOA for the quarter is $1.3 billion.
We had Industrial CFOA of $900 million and received $450 million of dividends from GE Capital.
Industrial cash flow was lighter than our expectations driven by the timing on progress collections particularly in power and water and the impact of an aviation supply chain issue on inventory.
These timing issues will reverse in the second and third quarter and our expectation is that the Industrial cash flow will be stronger in 2Q and will be up substantially for the first half versus last year.
The GE Capital exit significantly impacts our tax rate for the quarter.
As a result we are providing both the reported tax provisions and tax rates on the bottom left side of the chart.
The GE tax rate for the quarter was 23% in line with guidance we provided.
The reported GE Capital tax rate is not meaningful as the charges to shrink the company cause there to be a $6.2 billion tax expense while there is a significant pretax loss.
As we noted previously GE Capital have a higher tax rate going forward and we expect variability in the tax rate as we transition the business through the next few years.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Industrial segment revenues were down 1% reported and up 3% organically reflecting about four points of headwind from foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange was approximately $940 million drag on Industrial segment revenue and about $120 million impact on op profit.
Despite this headwind Industrial segment operating profit was up 9%.
GE Capital earnings were down 21% primarily driven by lower Synchrony earnings due to the minority interest and lower assets.
Ill cover the dynamics of each of the segments in a couple of pages but first I want to walk these results to our reported financials.
Starting with the first column on the left and working down as we said Industrial operating earnings were $1.6 billion up 14% and GE Capital earnings were $1.5 billion for total operating earnings of $3.1 billion.
Including non-operating pension continuing earnings were $2.7 billion.
We had approximately $80 million benefit in discontinued operations associated with the sale of our consumer mortgage business in Australia to bring net earnings to $2.8 billion.
The next column is the impact of GE Capital exit announcements as we reviewed with you last week.
As we discussed we took a $14 billion charge associated with classifying businesses and assets thats held for sale and a $6 billion tax charge.
We also took a $2.3 billion disc ops charge principally reflecting the real estate transaction.
After adjusting first quarter operations for these items the reported amounts are shown in the third column.
So $2.8 billion of operations net earnings offset by $16.4 billion of GE Capital charges works to the reported $13.6 billion net earnings loss for the first quarter or a loss of $1.35 per share.
As we move to the execution plan we shared with you last week there will be adjustments and we will continue to keep you updated on progress and the impacts of those actions.
Next on other items.
We dont have a long list this quarter.
We had $0.03 related to ongoing industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to take actions to improve the cost structure of the company.
This was $422 million on a pretax basis.
But about a third of that related to restructuring oil and gas.
As we discussed before we are taking aggressive actions to reduce our cost footprint given the challenging environment and the team are laser-focused on execution.
For the year we will continue to execute on restructuring projects with urgency.
As you are aware we are expecting some gains this year from appliances and signaling transaction.
In the profile on the bottom of the page we have assumed that appliance gain in the second quarter and the signaling gain in the second half but both are subject to regulatory approval.
Although there will be quarterly variability in gains and restructuring time we expect gains to equal restructuring for the year on an EPS basis.
Next I will give an update on power and water.
Orders for the quarter were $4.5 billion were down 21% driven by equipment orders down 29% and services down 15%.
Orders were lighter than expected due to financing delays and timing of agreements but not competitive losses.
For example we signed a deal for two 7F gas in this week that we expected to sign in the first quarter.
Our framework for wind and thermal orders has not changed for the year and we expect second quarter orders to be up double-digits.
In the first quarter we booked 21 gas turbines versus 31 a year ago and 376 wind turbines versus 422 turbines in the first quarter of 2014.
In terms of edge technology we reported another order for a 90K in Latin America and this brings the backlog to 16 units.
In addition weve been technically selected on an additional 37 units and are bidding an incremental 50 units beyond that.
Distributed power equipment orders were down 53% driven by a nine fewer turbines.
We expect distributed power turbines orders to be roughly flat for the year.
Gas engine orders were lower by 39% in the quarter driven by softer demand in gas compression.
Overall DPE will continue to be soft for the year.
Service orders were down 15% with PGFs down 20% driven by no repeat of a large upgrade in Japan a year ago and lower new unit installs.
EGP orders were 16 down one year-over-year.
No change in outlook for EGPs or services for the total year.
Revenue of $5.7 billion was higher by 4% but was up 9% ex foreign exchange.
Equipment revenues were up 1% on very strong thermal volume.
We shipped 39 gas turbines versus 17 a year ago that was partially offset by distributed power down 37% and renewables down 30% on lower unit shipments of 15 and 175 respectively.
Service revenues were higher by 7% driven by higher upgrades including EGP upgrades 21 versus 17 a year ago.
Operating profit of $871 million was down 2% thats flat ex foreign exchange driven by higher volume offset by negative productivity and supply chain and engineering associated with the H ramp and negative product mix due to lower distributed power.
Value gap in the quarter was a positive $12 million.
Op profit margins were down 90 basis points in the quarter.
We remain on track with the outlook we provided and we expect 100 to 105 gas turbine orders and shipments this year with a good pipeline of activity.
We still expect wind shipments of around 3000 to 3200 turbines and AGP upgrades remain on track and distributed power will remain pressured throughout the year.
Next Ill cover oil and gas.
Oil and gas orders of $4.3 billion were down 6% reported but up 2% organically.
Equipment orders of $2.2 billion were down 10% flat organically.
Service orders were down 27% on a weak North American activity and TMSs orders were down 23% with no repeat of two large LNG orders we took in the first quarter of last year.
It was still a decent order this quarter for TMS which booked more than $700 million of new orders in the quarter.
Subsea and drilling orders were up 74% on large deals we booked in Ghana and Brazil.
Service orders of $2.1 billion were down 3% and up 4% organically.
Surface was lower by 21% and TMS was down 8% largely due to foreign exchange.
Subsea was strong up 21% MNC was down 1% organically.
Revenues of just under $4 billion were flat year-over-year organically and down 8% reported.
Reported negative 3% include seven points of foreign exchange and one point of disposition.
Equipment revenues were down 13% with TMS down 9% reported but up 22% ex foreign exchange and Subsea down 8% reported but up 6% ex exchange.
MNC was down 8% organically in the quarter and service revenues were down 2% reported but up 4% organic with Surface down 23% and MNC up 11% organically.
Operating profit was up 11% organically down 3% reported driven by negative FX offset by strong productivity of both base cost and product and service cost.
Price was a $5 million drag in the first quarter but the business delivered positive value gap.
Margins improved 50 basis points reported and were 120 basis points better ex the impact of exchange on earnings.
This will be a challenging year in oil and gas but the team has been aggressive on remaking the cost structure of the business and we believe that we remain within the scenarios that supported our total year industrial guidance of $1.10 to $1.20 a share.
Next I will cover Aviation.
Air travel continues to be very robust.
Global passenger kilometers grew 5.3% through February 2015 versus the same period last year with the Middle East up 8.8% Asia-Pacific up 7.3%.
Through February freight traffic grew 7.5% compared with a year ago with very strong double-digit growth in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
Orders in the quarter of $7.5 billion were up 36% equipment orders of $3.9 billion were up 64% on higher commercial engine orders of $3.3 billion up over two times versus the prior year.
This was driven by a $1.2 billion of GEnx engine orders up ten times versus last year from Kuwait Airlines Emirates and includes a GE9X order for Cathay.
GEnx received $360 million in orders up three times and we also recorded $800 million of orders for LEAP up three times.
Our total win rate for the LEAP since program launch for the next-gen narrow body aircraft is 79%.
Commercial engine backlog was up 35% year-over-year.
Military equipment orders were down 61% driven by no repeat of two large orders from Sikorsky in Qatar Air Force from the first quarter of last year as expected.
Service orders were up 14% on strong commercial spare parts which were up 31% at $38.9 million a day the military spares were down 11%.
Revenues of $5.7 billion were down 2%.
Equipment revenues were down 8% with commercial equipment revenue down 1% on lower GEnx shipments.
We shipped 19 fewer units than last year 51 versus 70 and 29 less units in our plan as a result of a supply chain disruption.
Military equipment revenue was down 32% on lower shipments and service revenue was up 4% with commercial spare parts up 28% and Military Services up 3%.
Op profit was up 18% on very strong value gap variable cost productivity and favorable GEnx mix partially offset by lower volume and higher R&amp;D.
Margins improved 390 basis points in the quarter.
The impact of the lower GEnx shipments improved the margin write by about 90 basis points.
This is net of some cost to remediate the disruption.
We are working the issue and we expect to ship most of the delayed units in 2Q and be back on plan for the full year of 275 to 300 GEnx units.
Aviation had another strong quarter growing equipment and service backlog by 23% and 9% respectively.
The business continues to execute on new technology introductions.
Service offerings and cost out.
Aviation could perform better than we outlined at the December Outlook Meeting.
Next healthcare orders of $4.2 billion were down 1% but up 4% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
We saw its continued growth in the US of 5%.
Europe was down 4% but up 11% ex FX.
Japan was down 18% down 6% in ex FX.
The Middle East was down 43% driven by Saudi and China was down 4%.
Healthcare system orders were down 5% flat excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
US Imaging and Ultrasound was up 7% with strong growth in MR up 41% in the quarter partially driven by the new PET MR released in December.
This was offset by softer orders in Japan Russia and the Middle East.
Life science orders were up 10% up 17% excluding foreign exchange driven by strong bio process orders.
This was offset with core imaging down 3% and services.
Revenues of $4.1 billion were down 3% but up 2% ex foreign exchange.
Healthcare system revenues were down 6% flat organically and life science revenues were up 4%.
Operating profit was up 3% with 80 basis points of margin expansion driven by strong cost execution partially offset by lower price.
Looking forward we expect similar market dynamics.
We believe we are gaining share in key modalities in the US and we expect the market to continue to improve.
While China has slowed we expect orders growth for the remainder of the year in China.
Life science growth will persist and the business team continues to execute on its cost out programs.
In Transportation North American carloads were up 1.8% within intermodal traffic up 2.1% which was impacted by the West Coast Port Strait.
Commodities have seen broad based increases with agriculture up 4.6% and chemicals and petroleum products up 3.2%.
Coal volumes were down 2.5% in the quarter.
Transportation orders were down 38% with equipment orders down 56% and services were higher by 13%.
Equipment orders were lower driven by locomotives primarily due to not repeating the large South Africa deal we had in the first quarter of last year.
Revenues in the quarter were up 7% driven by strong equipment growth.
We shipped 215 locos in the quarter versus 178 a year earlier.
Overall mining continues to be soft down 23%.
Operating profit in the quarter was up 11% on higher locomotive volumes material deflation and cost productivity.
Margins in the quarter expanded by 70 basis points.
We now have 16 pre-production tier-4 units out with our customers running on the rails.
They are performing an actual operating condition as part of our validation process.
We had about 1200 tier-4 locos in backlog at the end of the first quarter of 2015 and we expect to ship about half those this year.
On energy management orders of $2.1 billion were down 3% and up 2% organically.
Power Conversion orders were up 10% in the quarter.
Industrial Solutions was up 4% and Digital Energy was down 38% from no repeat of a large domestic meter order from last year.
Power Conversion saw strong growth in Renewables vertical up two times on solar inverters and the marine vertical was up 15% on a large Canadian proportion dynamic positioning deal in Canada offset partially by softer oil and gas orders.
Backlog for our Energy Management business grew 3%.
Revenues were up 1% and up 8% organically driven by foreign exchange with Power Conversion up 6% Digital Energy and Industrial Systems were both above flat.
Op profit was $28 million up from $5 million last year on a reported basis.
The business continues to benefit from restructuring with strong base cost productivity driven by SG&amp;A reductions and positive value gap offset by unfavorable foreign exchange.
Margin rates in the quarter were up 140 basis points.
We expect program execution and margin rate improvement to continue throughout 2015.
And then finally Appliances and Lighting.
Revenue in the quarter was up 5%.
Appliance revenues were up 8% driven by strong volume.
Industry core units were flat with retail down 1% and contract up 4%.
The industry volume was well below the first quarter expectation of plus 8% due to the harsh weather across the US.
We believe GE increased our share by two points in the first quarter.
Lighting revenues were down 3% on lower traditional product demand which was down 18%.
This was partially offset by continued strong LED performance which grew 76% in the quarter.
LED now makes up 30 plus percent of lighting revenues and thats up from 17% of lighting revenues in the first quarter of 2014.
Op profit in the quarter was $103 million.
Now on GE Capital.
Before we start with the GE Capital results I just like to take a moment highlighting incredible work done by Keith and GE Capital team.
Keith led an enormous and complicated effort in a very challenging window of time to get the company to this very important strategic pivot.
This is a transformational change for our company that will create real value for investors long-term.
This has covered the impact of last weeks announcement is reflected in GE Capitals first quarter reported financials.
On the page we have provided a lock starting with the earnings from our vertical businesses which generated $352 million for the quarter.
Operating earnings from the remainder of our businesses and continuing operations amounted to $1.1 billion which was more than offset by $14 billion day one accounting adjustments related to last weeks announcement.
Earnings from continuing operations amounted to a net loss of $12.5 billion.
Discontinued operations generated additional losses of $2.2 billion which reflect the charges associated with our commercial real estate business.
Overall GE Capital reported a $14.7 billion loss including $6 billion of tax expenses.
We ended the quarter with $303 billion of E&amp;I excluding liquidity.
Our liquidity levels remain strong and we ended the quarter at $76 billion including $14 billion attributable to Synchrony.
Our commercial paper program remained at $25 billion and we had $8 billion of long-term debt issuance for the quarter.
As discussed last week we do not anticipate additional issuances over the next five years and we expect GE Capital CB balance to decrease to $5 billion by the end of the year.
Starting this quarter we are transitioning the capital adequacy reporting from Basel 1 to Basel 3 inline with industry practice.
Our Basel 3 Tier-1 common ratio was 10.6% inclusive of the day one charges.
We expect this ratio to improve as we dispose the risk-weighted assets over the course of the year.
As I mentioned last Friday we will operate through the transition in a safe and sound manner working with our regulators and determining the appropriate capital level.
Going forward the team will be very focused on executing the portfolio transformation.
As we discussed last week we have signed deals on close to 50% of the planned E&amp;I reduction for the year and we are receiving very strong inbound interest on many of our portfolio since the discussion last week.
We are prioritizing transaction in a way that allows us to maximize franchise value and as I said last week we will be very transparent as we execute through this process.
Overall Keith and the GE Capital team delivered a strong operational quarter in line with our prior guidance and are now fully focused on delivering on the portfolio transformation that we shared with you last week.
With that Ill turn it back to Jeff.
Thanks Jeff.
We remain on track for a 2015 operating framework but we will adjust our guidance milestones to reflect last weeks announcement on capital.
Industrial EPS is on track for $1.10 to $1.20 and we are running our businesses to the high-end of that range.
We are generating solid organic growth in margin expansion.
Corporate costs are being well managed with gains equal to restructuring and oil and gas is performing to our expectations.
We continue to invest in Industrial growth.
Between research and development investment in plant equipment and information technology and the potential for industrial M&amp;A we will invest $10 billion to $15 billion each year in our industrial growth.
We can do this and so return significant capital to investors.
The GE Capital verticals are tracking to $0.15 per share and as Jeff said we are focused on the verticals and well keep them top of mind.
Weve set a target of $90 billion in asset sales and this is part of our guidance.
We already have approximately 50% announced and have robust pipeline to achieve this by year end.
Again we will update this at EPG.
Free cash flow remains on track to $12 billion to $15 billion dispositions and CFOA on track and we expect GE Capital to dividend between $500 million and $7 billion in line with what we talked about last week and we will update this as we go through the year.
We will continue to drive industrial-friendly capital allocation.
The dividend remains a top priority.
We are still expecting the Synchrony split to return $20 billion to you in the form of a share exchange.
And as you saw last week our Board has authorized a $50 billion buyback based on the proceeds from the GE Capital sale.
So between Synchrony the buyback and dividends we can return $90 billion to investors over the next few years.
The company is executing well operationally and strategically.
Our compensation plans have aligned us with investors and we expect to have a solid second quarter and total year.
Matt now back to you for some questions.
Great thanks Jeff.
I will now turn it over to the operator to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hey Scott.
I was intrigued by your couple of comments that you made but Jeff Bornstein the comment you made on incoming interest into the asset sales.
I mean give us a sense of  and I think the question really is give us a sense of your availability to sell those assets quicker than you laid out in your timetable meaning are the books out do you have  if the sovereign showed up tomorrow could you hand them the keys and few months later its you can get the deal done or is there some gating factors that could limit the timing? Well I would say Scott the amount of inbound interest has been incredible in both non-banks and banks both domestic and international interest.
So I think that we are buoyed by the demand that we see so far.
It really depends on the platform and the type of transaction we are talking about and we are organized to be able to do this as quickly as possible.
Our goal is to monetize these assets these platforms as fast as we can.
There will be some gating challenges on getting ourselves into position to  as you describe to get all the books together et cetera et cetera.
But we are going to go out to this as fast as humanly possible and I think the positive point here is the level of interest is really quite incredible.
Okay.
Thats good and then Jeff Immelt you made a comment in your prepared remarks about wanting to get to an efficient balance sheet or something in that regard and I really hadnt heard you mention those terms before I mean how do you think of an inefficient industrial balance sheet? Is there some sort of a range of leverage or some way to measure that? I think Scott in the near term I think you have to think about us as safe and secure and marching through this process with GE Capital and things like that.
Over the long-term I think our desire is to have an industrial looking balance sheet and how fast that goes again depends on Jeffs answer earlier on GE Capital assets and things like that but our goal is to have over time to have investors look at GE as an industrial company and have a balance sheet that lines up more or less with our peers in that space.
Okay.
And then last just a clean-up item what impact on margins was currency in the quarter? Did you have a benefit from hedges in the margin improvement? No actually FX was a drag in margins in the quarter.
Okay.
As I talked about in the Industrial segment margin we had about $120 million FX drag and hedges were a very small offsets to the total impact.
We actually had negative impacts all in.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Great Scott.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Steven Winoker of Bernstein.
Thanks and good morning.
Hey Steve.
Hey just can we go to that $1.10 to $1 framework.
I heard you say that you are running the businesses to the high-end of that range.
Maybe an idea of what does that mean and also how much  can you just remind us how much of that is Alstom? Again Steve the way to think about that is we have an AIP plan a compensation plan and that lines up with how the internal business plans work.
So I think we talked to you guys Steve at the year end meeting at EPG about the comp plan we have the team too.
So when you look at the AIP plan that frames compensation for the leadership team thats what I referred to and its really the same comment I made in January about how we are running the place.
I think with Alstom Steve we are counting on $0.01 for the year.
So not really much impact in 2015 and more so in 2016.
So maybe just sticking on that then and maybe this is to Jeff Bornstein on this one.
How are you - if we just walked our way from again this $0.31 and given the trending of oil and gas what  just maybe I think having just a little challenge given the weakness we are seeing in other companies bringing down guidance in oil and gas and related areas what give you guys the confidence of getting to that over the next three quarters and more than sequential second half ramp and things like that? Listen I think that the scenarios that we shared with you at year end we updated again in the first quarter call.
I am sorry  in the first quarter on the fourth quarter call.
We evaluated a number of different scenarios around oil and gas.
As we communicated to you all of those scenarios we felt were within the range of $1.10 or $1.20.
Weve got the team Lorenzo and the team are executing like crazy on a substantial cost plan.
They are at right on track actually slightly ahead of schedule.
They are going to take out close to $600 million of cost of this year both base cost and product and service cost.
So when we take a look at where we ended here in the first quarter with oil and gas and how we think about the balance in the next three quarters and very importantly with all the restructuring that we are doing the benefits of that largely in the second half of the year we feel like today based on everything we know that those scenarios and that guidance that we gave you remains in tact.
Let me add just a little bit to what Jeff said.
I think he framed this year well.
I think if the quarter the guys are actually probably a little bit better than what we had anticipated but you see all the volatility in the market and this is going to  its just going to be something we have to continue to evaluate quarter-by-quarter.
But at the same time I think one of the advantages we have at GE is we can look at other businesses that have the potential to do better and over the context of the company weve got a framework that we are confident in even if other scenarios in oil and gas take place.
So I think thats one of the strengths of GE youve seen the way Aviation got out of the gate and that some businesses get a chance to provide some upside maybe during the year.
Okay and then just lastly on this topic.
The 1.4% order pricing negative order pricing in oil and gas again that is really - how should we think about that in terms of  are these additional is there any additional re-negotiation or existing backlog happening or is this new and where are you seeing the weakness on that front? Yes so when you look at order pricing Steve that 1.4% is almost entirely associated with the Ghana Subsea order we took.
So its not broadly across the portfolio.
We have not re-negotiated any prices from existing backlog.
So thats where we are today.
Okay I will hand it on.
Thanks a lot.
Great.
Great Steve thanks.
Your next question comes from Andrew Obin of Bank of America.
Yes good morning.
Hey Andrew.
Just yes maybe Ill let others ask questions on oil and gas let's focus a little bit elsewhere.
As I look into 2016 and what about renewables and I guess I will touch on oil and gas what about Subsea because the industry timing on Subsea suggests that orders will be very strong this year but what does it mean for 2016 in power and water and oil and gas given the specific regulatory dynamic and industry-specific dynamic in these two sub-segments? So I think with renewables again what I would say Andrew is we always think about the US in the context of the PTC.
And there is nothing we see today that indicates that the PTC is not going to get rolled over in some capacity.
So that kind of keeps the US at a kind of lets say steady state and then when you look around the world you see growth.
I mean I think if you look at Brazil if you look at places in Europe if you look at even Africa and Middle East we see pretty good growth.
China we see pretty good growth in wind globally.
So.
I think we are thinking well do another 3000 turbines is our current estimate in 2016 as well.
There is a shift.
There is going to be more international than domestic as we move forward no question about that.
But roughly the same kind of volumes.
I think the way to think about Subsea is on an incoming order standpoint each project thats going to get a ton of scrutiny whether its the Ghana project that we signed or Bonga in Nigeria or projects in Australia or things like that.
But once a project is going thats unlikely that it will be stopped.
In other words you already have fixed cost and when it gets into the production mode its unlikely that its going to slow down.
So we still think Subsea in 2015 and 2016 are going to be okay within that context.
And just to follow-up a little bit shorter-term looking into the second quarter you highlighted some delays in Power and Water and Aviation.
So if these two segments recover actually into the second quarter what does it imply for organic Industrial growth in the second quarter? Well I think at the moment here weve given you guidance for the year.
We expect organic growth will be 2% to 5% for the year we were 3% here in the first quarter.
I think thats generally the trend we expect to be on throughout the year.
But directionally they would imply that ex oil and gas there should be some room for acceleration in the rest of the business right? Again we see those segments getting better in the second quarter but again we dont want to  we just dont want to do organic revenue each quarter-by-quarter Andrew.
Okay I tried.
So we are comfortable in the range and we leave the rest to you.
I tried.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
Good morning guys.
Hey Shannon.
Hey so maybe just on the equipment margin improvement 120 basis points pretty impressive it looks like some benefit from mix in the quarter.
As we go forward I mean assuming you can't count on that mix every quarter value gap cost productivity and some of those things Jeff Bornstein and Dan Heintzelman are working on does that ramp as quickly as 2Q 3Q and maybe just a little expectation on how you see that equipment margin playing out through the year? So we expect the initiatives that teams are going and that Dan and I are working with the businesses on will gain momentum as we move throughout the year.
As you saw on Jeffs page when you walk through the margins we had 60 basis points of mix.
I think what we talked about at year end when we talked about the year was mix that probably wanted to be hopefully would be something more neutral.
So I would expect us to do to gain momentum on the cost line and product service cost line and well see what mix plays out.
But I would assume for the year that mix will be roughly neutral.
And any segments so far as you are kind of attacking that cost structure any segments that you are particularly encouraged by the opportunity you have seen? I think every singe one of these business have enormous opportunity.
I mean when you look at the first quarter results I mean particularly around equipment margins just about every business had improvement with the exception of power and water and oil and gas.
So I think that its not unique to any one business every one of these businesses has an enormous opportunity to get products and service cost at another level.
Okay and then just - maybe on Alstom Jeff Immelt you mentioned some of the difficult trends in the market but Alston would be facing that you are also seeing obviously.
Can you still get to sort of the plan there even if the markets are a little tougher and then any update in terms of the regulatory process and how some of the concerns of the European Commission around heavy-duty gas turbine concentration might be remedied? Yes I would say let me answer the second piece first Shannon.
I would say there is nothing really thats been a big surprise as we go through this.
So we always thought that there would be a second request or that process would take until this summer and so I would say so far nothing really is a surprise.
I think on the financials we still look for a high-teens return and $0.16 accretion in 2016.
So we still feel that is achievable and synergies are quite robust and we like that.
And the last thing I would say is look at he end of the day just like every deal we have always reserve as we do these transactions that will only do deals that are investor-friendly and that achieve good returns.
And so I think we have established that in this case and I think we are optimistic about how Alstom fits with GE.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hi thank you.
Hey Julian.
Hi just a question on power and water.
The services orders were down a decent amount sales though were up.
So maybe give a little bit of color around whats going on in the Thermal Services business in particular by region because it does seems as if the orders are softer AGP as well and sales are still okay.
So Julian Ill start with orders were soft year-over-year largely because we had a very large upgrade in Japan last year that we just didnt repeat this year.
Secondly the number of new unit installs that the Services business worked on in the quarter were fewer year-over-year.
So thats most of what we saw in softness in power-gen services.
AGPs are flat.
We told you we think we do about 100 for the year.
We will do 100 for the year.
I dont think we are changing any of the outlook there.
So I dont think there is a broad team here even geographically around power-gen services.
Our next question comes from Barbara Noverini with Morningstar.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Barbara.
So is predictivity growth tracking your expectations since you spoke about your plans back in the fall and can you talk about which of your operating segments are driving the most demand for predictive analytic solutions this year? Yes so we see again  I would say 30% to 40% growth pretty consistently across the business in software and predictivity I just had a review with all the businesses last week.
And so there is a variety of different  and there is  Id say clearly the power and power upgrade things like power-up on the wind turbine side weve got 10 installs but really another 100 behind that thats quite exciting.
As I mentioned the rail business has got in expectations grow about orders about 50% for the year.
So we are seeing both from a software and things like movement plan our size are growing.
The radiology ITPs is up 13% in terms of new bookings in the quarter.
So some pretty good activity there.
Weve kind of launched what we call Assets Performance Management APM in oil and gas.
So we are seeing an original service funnel in that activity.
So Id say macro kind of in the 30% to 40% range with strong double-digits in each business as we look at software and predictivity for the year.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Deane.
Hey just a couple of questions on the Aviation side that spares number being up 31% really jumps out and do you see changes in airline behavior is this coming through because of lower fuel and how sustainable is this through 2015? Well you heard the revenue the volume numbers are pretty good.
Revenue passenger miles very very strong.
There is no question that most of the forecast are that the Aviation industry globally or probably have a most profitable year in history this year.
I think IATA was estimating almost $25 billion of profit.
And the airlines are no question stocking inventory.
Youll recall that 2012 there was a really large destocking that went on and since that de-stocking in 2012 spares have improved each of the last couple of years.
So maybe that the airlines based on the profitability to operations are more aggressively replenishing some of that de-stocking that happened a few years ago.
But very strong.
Now we dont expect that rate of 31% to persist for the year.
I think we talked about double-digits and we are probably talking about mid double-digits mid-teens maybe.
But its not going to be 31% for the year.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Jeff.
Hey good morning.
Just wanted to kind of circle back around to Alstom.
Given that there was kind of such an abrupt change in strategy around capital and you are achieving kind of your business next goal kind of through subtraction largely how do you actually feel about Alstom here? Is that really the right asset and is there a way to back out of that if the EU is a little too demanding? Well I would take that in two pieces.
Id say the premise for the deal Jeff is relevant today as its been in the past which is great complementary products opportunity to drive excellent synergies good return on investments and we feel at the kind of four times EBITDA post-synergies is a pretty attractive entry-point into an investment like that.
So high double-digits returns and in a market we really know.
And then look I think just like every  I would back up and say the company has gotten probably 100 deals through the Brussels in the past decade something like that.
So I think we know how to approach this and know how to get these things done.
But just like every other deal we have ever done that just ever would become unattractive we wouldnt do it.
So thats so different than any other transaction weve ever done as a company.
Our next question comes from Robert McCarthy with Stifel.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hey Rob.
Hey it looks like we've reached the lightning round of the call.
So I got one question from me.
I'll make it count.
In any event just in terms of the timing of the divestiture of a large part of these GE Capital assets I mean obviously the inbound call volume is very encouraging but at the end of the day given the size scope and nature of a lot of these businesses youre going to be dealing probably with a lot of large SIFI like institutions I mean how do you reconcile the need for speed killing in terms of getting to these divestitures versus getting the right price and how are you thinking about those decisions and do you think the timeline is practical? Well I think the plan that Keith laid out with all of you last week we laid out a plan that span a couple of  2.5 years ago roughly.
But that we thought that the bulk of this work would be done by the end of 2016.
Now we are going to try to outperform that.
There is no question I think that when we think about the risk associated with this including price and value speed is the single biggest mitigate.
We have a market today thats incredibly receptive to these kinds of assets.
And so we need to be able to capitalize on that.
There is - no question weve got a balance from an execution standpoint the nature of the buyer and the size of the transaction to the extent that we are relying on maybe a back-end regulatory approval by the buyer we are doing smaller transactions that maybe maybe not maybe better from a price perspective than doing several large big bulk deals.
But I think my guess is that Keith and the team will run almost a parallel process.
They will evaluate on both tracks platform-by-platform portfolio-by-portfolio the level of interest there versus a couple several maybe much larger deals.
They try to sweep up many of those platforms simultaneously.
So we are completely aware of exactly what you are asking and we have a process and well make sure that we evaluate on those sides but speed is the key.
Rob I just want to say that the lifetime achievement award winner Joanna Morris is working in the phones this morning.
So dont blame Jeff Bornstein or me for any of this activity.
And I want to echo just what Jeff Bornstein said which is you got to think about each one of these assets having multiple options for what we do.
So its not like for any one of these there is not like be one game plan.
There is going to be multiple for every platform  And our next question comes from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Hey Steve how are you? Well.
So just to be clear is the oil and gas guidance what is that now for the year? I am not sure that was like an explicit comment on oil and gas and then if you could just opine on the - a little more clarity around what happened with the aviation supply chain there has definitely been a lot of noise from maybe sub-suppliers and stuff like that around that supply chain.
So just curious as to how you guys are kind of fitting into that puzzle? We didnt anything on our guidance on oil and gas Steve So I think what we said is down 0% to 5% probably closer to 5%.
We evaluated this scenario is to be on 5%.
All those are concerted in the guidance we gave you at $1.10 and $1.20.
We got the team executing to a plan that supports the $1.10 to $1.20.
As Jeff talked about Keith incented the team and our targets internally on the higher end of that range not the lower end of that range.
So no change or anything weve shared in the two calls previous to this.
And then I would say Steve the production is ramping in 2Q and getting back on schedule and no real update other than what Jeff Bornstein said on the call.
Our next question comes from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks Joanna and good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
The first question I guess first and only question is really on the order of priority on the asset sales.
Can you just discuss a little bit both on COL and consumer and I guess specifically as it relates to US versus international how you are thinking about the order of priority because I would imagine that given your goal to de-designate the non-bank SIFI I would imagine would be focused on the US assets.
So any color there would be helpful.
So where Keith and team are focused on first and foremost those platforms where we might be more concerned about the franchise value itself where the people are big component of the value creation process.
So he has prioritized the focus based on that first.
You are correct I would say the second order priority would be we think in the US our ability to execute quickly and in scale is very favorable today and it is a big part of the discussion around the SIFI status.
So having said that its not that we are not going to do anything outside the US we are going to be working the international platform in parallel here as well.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Well thanks good morning.
Hey Nigel.
Hey so Jeff I think you are going to win the prize for most bullish CEO this quarter.
The $1.20 I just wanted to kind of divine what you mean by working towards the high-end because right now consensus is close to $1.10.
So are you encouraged enough to raise our numbers and if so do you see a path of 5% organic or is it primarily mid-point to low-point but offset by margins? So any comments there would be helpful.
I think Nigel this is the exact same comment I made in January that just centers where the internal incentive plan and the internal incentive plan sits towards the high end of the range and we were transparent about this at year end and we were transparent about it in January and I am transparent about it April.
Again I think the value of a portfolio is that youve got a series of businesses that are doing well and youve got markets that are still volatile out there and we just want to see how that continues to evolve like I said earlier like Jeff said we are pleased with where oil and gas finished in the first quarter but that market is extremely volatile right now.
And we just want to see how we continue to progress what happens in the marketplace.
And lets see what happens.
There is plenty of chance to make other changes as the year goes through.
But lets see how we do quarter-by-quarter.
And beyond that look I think we are  weve got a good diversified set of businesses that are doing well in the industries we are in and we need to see how the world continues to evolve.
Okay couple of announcements before we wrap up.
Next Wednesday well hold our Annual Shareholders Meeting in Oklahoma City.
On May 20th Jeff will present at EPG and on June 16th well hold Paris Air Show Investor Meeting and as always we will be available later today to take your questions.
Jeff? Great Matt.
Thanks thanks everybody.
We announced a lot last week on really positioning the company for the future.
We are excited about that strategic change that strategic pivot.
The underlying performance of the company both Industrial and GE Capital is per our expectations for the year.
We continue to make progress.
We are pleased by the execution of the team in the first quarter and we look forward to the rest of the year.
Thanks Matt.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Jeanette and I will be your conference coordinator today.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the program over to your host for today's conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
We issued the press release presentation and supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Please interpret them in that light.
For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein.
Now I'll turn it over to Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Matt.
The team had a strong quarter in a slow growth and volatile environment.
We're executing both organic growth and cost initiatives.
Specifically Industrial EPS grew by 18% and earnings at the combination of Industrial and the Capital Verticals which is the way we think about GE going forward grew by 19%.
Organic growth and earnings performance was very strong.
Orders were up 13% revenue was up 5% and profit would have grown by 11% organically.
Our operations were strong.
Margins expanded by 70 basis points with gross margins up 60 basis points and Industrial CFOA grew by 79%.
Our Oil &amp; Gas business met expectations for the quarter for orders revenue and profit.
Organic profit was up 5% and we continue to grow margins despite a tougher environment.
We end the half with our goals on track.
Meanwhile we have a number of portfolio actions underway.
GE Capital asset sales were robust and we will achieve $100 billion of deals closed in 2015.
We still expect the Synchrony split to take place by the end of this year.
Appliances and Alstom are in the middle of regulatory reviews but we still expect both deals to close by the end of the year.
We remain committed to doing good deals for investors.
In all we're confident enough in our performance to raise the low end of our range for our Industrial guidance to $1.13 to $1.20 EPS.
So overall we had a very good quarter.
Orders were very strong up 8% or 13% organically.
We saw solid growth in both equipment and service.
Orders pricing was up slightly and we grew backlog to a record $272 billion.
Power &amp; Water was up 22% behind strengthed power gen products and wind.
We now have won 61 technical selections for the H turbine up eight in the quarter.
Oil &amp; Gas has solid equipment orders in turbo machinery and downstream consistent with expectations.
Power conversion orders grew by 33% as we're winning big in renewable energy markets.
Aviation had large orders growth in LEAP and GEnx and meanwhile spares' order rates grew by 33%.
Healthcare HCS Equipment orders grew by 6% in the U.S.
as that market continues to rebound.
The U.S.
was particularly strong but we also saw growth in many parts of the world.
The U.S.
was up 10% Europe up 4% and growth markets up 2%.
First half Industrial Internet orders were $1.9 billion up 83% and we expect total software and solution orders for the year of $6 billion up 30%.
Service growth was robust at 7% ex-FX and backlog reached $200 billion for the first time.
Our strong backlog in orders position GE to achieve our long-term organic growth targets of 5%.
Organic revenue was up 5% growth was broad based with six of seven segments up.
A real highlight was the $19 billion of commitments at the Paris Air Show.
For the first half U.S.
revenue grew by 3% and four of nine growth markets were up and China grew by 12%.
We had some excellent performances in service.
Power gen service was up 9% Aviation service was up 6% and Transportation service was up 6%.
We're gaining share in Healthcare with U.S.
Healthcare HCS Equipment revenue growing 16%.
We closed a big Healthcare deal in Kenya worth more than $200 million and international locos grew by 128% with big wins in Brazil and South Africa.
A few adjacencies were particularly strong.
Wind grew by 49% and LEDs grew by 77%.
And our Power Conversion business is innovating in solar and wind energy recording $300 million in orders in those markets alone.
We have a strong pipeline of products and services that are winning versus competition.
And we're having success in software and analytics.
We launched GE's Digital Wind Farm providing customers with up to 20% more capacity.
We announced a major collaboration with BP for asset monitoring in oil and gas and we closed another Class 1 railroad that we utilized GEs Movement Planner in a deal worth more than $100 million.
Margins expanded with 70 basis points of growth.
Gross margins were up 60 basis points with strength in value gap and productivity.
We're making progress broadly with five of seven segments having margin growth.
Simplification continues to deliver results and our SG&amp;A targets are on track.
First half margins are up 100 basis points and service margins were particularly strong up 130 basis points year-to-date as the impact of our analytical tools are being felt.
Equipment margins meanwhile were up 30 basis points year-to-date.
So we're running the company well.
Cash is a good story.
Industrial CFOA is up 79% year-to-date and free cash flow is up 54%.
We did not receive a Capital dividend in the quarter but we're hopeful to get an additional dividend to the parent in the year.
As we've said our asset sales are ahead of plan and GE Capital has substantial strength to remain safe and secure.
We expect to complete the Synchrony split by the end of 2015 and at the current stock price our share of Synchrony is worth about $24 billion.
The balance sheet is very strong with $17 billion of cash at the parent and our cash generation is on track for the year.
And we remain committed to our capital allocation plans.
Now over to Jeff to review the businesses.
Thanks Jeff.
I'll start with the second quarter summary.
We had revenues of $32.8 billion which were up 2% in the quarter.
Industrial revenues including corporate were up 1% to $26.9 billion.
You can see on the right that the Industrial segments were flat on revenue for the quarter but up 5% organically.
Industrial operating plus Verticals EPS was $0.31 which was up 19% year-over-year that's driven by Industrial up 18% and the Verticals up 25%.
The operating EPS number of $0.28 adds another continuing GE Capital activity including the Consumer segment headquarter run-off and other exit related items which I'll cover in more detail shortly.
Continuing EPS of $0.24 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS of negative $0.13 includes the impact of discontinued operations.
The total DiscOps impact in the quarter was negative $3.7 billion which included a $4.3 billion non-cash charge related to moving the majority of our GE Capital CLL business to held for sale.
We disclosed this earlier in the month.
Partly offsetting the charge was income associated with CLL and real estate.
This charge was included in the total $23 billion GE Capital estimated exit impact that we communicated in April but earlier than we originally planned based on accelerated sales activity.
As Jeff said we had a strong performance on cash with CFOA for the half up $3.9 billion or 17%.
Industrial CFOA was $3.5 billion at the half which was up 79%.
In the first quarter we had $450 million of GE Capital dividends and we did not receive a dividend from GE Capital in the second quarter.
The consolidated tax rate for the quarter was 27%.
The GE rate was 21% in line with guidance we provided.
The GE Capital reported rate was 45% driven by tax charges associated with the exit plan and the vertical tax rate in the quarter was 6%.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
As I mentioned earlier Industrial segment revenues were flat on a reported basis but up 5% organically reflecting 5 points of headwind from foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange was $1.3 billion drag on Industrial segment revenue and about a $215 million impact on Industrial segment's op profit.
Despite this headwind Industrial segment operating profit was up 5% and organically the Industrial segments were up 11%.
GE Capital Vertical earnings of $531 million in the quarter were up 19%.
Before we get into the traditional pages I wanted to first walk the different elements of our earnings for the quarter so the dynamics are clear given all the moving pieces of GE Capital.
Starting with the first column on the left and working down Industrial operating income was $2.6 billion and Verticals income was $0.5 billion for a total Industrial plus Verticals operating earnings of $3.2 billion.
The GE Capital Consumer segment earned $459 million during the quarter which is comprised of $463 million from Synchrony offset by our non-strategic global consumer portfolio.
We incurred $772 million of costs driven by exit related tax and restructuring charges headquarter runoff operating expenses excess interest and preferred dividends in the quarter.
As a result total operating earnings were $2.8 billion.
Including non-operating pension costs continuing earnings were $2.4 billion.
In discontinued operations you can see the $4.3 billion held-for-sale charge for CLL as well as the impact of CLL real estate earnings in the quarter.
Adjusting for these items net earnings for the quarter were a negative $1.4 billion.
In the center and far right columns you can see the associated EPS impacts and their variance versus prior year.
Next on Industrial other items in the quarter we had $0.03 of charges related to ongoing Industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to drive the cost competitiveness of the company.
Charges were about $400 million on a pre-tax basis and $280 million after tax.
About 40% of that related to restructuring Oil &amp; Gas as we continue to execute on an aggressive cost-out program in that business.
We also had $0.03 of gains in the quarter primarily related to the NBCU settlement that we disclosed in June.
We also had a small gain related to a disposition in Oil &amp; Gas.
Both of these transactions were booked in corporate.
On a pre-tax basis gains and settlements totaled about $500 million but given the high tax rate on these transactions the after-tax impact was $295 million in the quarter.
As you're aware we are expecting gains in the second half from the appliances and signaling transactions.
We expect gains and restructuring to be balanced on an EPS basis for the year.
We've increased our expected restructuring from about $0.09 to about $0.12 due to the higher gains we expect in the year and additional attractive restructuring opportunities we see.
Now I'll go through the segments starting with Power &amp; Water.
Orders of $7.8 billion were up 22% in the quarter up 27% ex-foreign exchange.
Equipment orders were higher by 29% with distributed power up 68% thermal was up 25% and renewables higher by 24%.
Distributed power was driven by domestic orders for LMS100 units from two customers.
Reciprocating engines for gas compression remain weak and were lower by 37%.
In thermal we booked 18 gas turbines versus 10 last year including an H turbine in Korea.
This brings our H units to 17 in backlog and an additional 44 technical wins.
Renewables orders totaled 888 wind turbines versus 715 a year ago.
Our two new NPI products the 2.0-megawatt and the 2.3-megawatt platforms received additional orders for 200 units in the second quarter of this year.
We also launched the Digital Wind Farm software solution featuring a new 2-megawatt modular turbine connected to the Industrial Internet and built on our Predix platform.
This application will drive up to 20% more annual energy production for our customers.
Service orders were up 17% on strong PGS growth in ASEAN and the Middle East-North Africa and AGP orders were 39 versus 19 last year.
Revenues in the quarter were higher by 8%.
Revenues were higher by 15% organically.
Equipment revenues were up 10% driven by renewables up 53% on shipments of 806 wind turbines versus 510 last year partially offset by distributed power down 20% on lower turbine and engine shipments and thermal down 3%.
We shipped 24 gas turbines three higher than the second quarter of last year but with reduced scope and a mix of more 7Fs than 9Fs.
Service revenues were up 6% with PGS up 9% on higher installations strong upgrades including AGP sales of 26 versus 19 last year.
Operating profit in the quarter was up 8% reported and up 14% organically.
Growth was driven by volume price and base cost productivity more than offsetting H turbine ramp cost negative mix driven by wind and distributed power and foreign exchange.
Operating margins in the quarter were flat at 18%.
The framework for Power &amp; Water remains intact.
We expect 100 to 105 gas turbine orders in shipment 3 000 to 3 200 wind shipments and AGP upgrades of 90 to 100.
Distributed power we think will remain challenging for the year.
Next on Oil &amp; Gas the business performed as we expected in the second quarter on orders and revenue.
It performed slightly better than we expected on operating profit.
I'll start with orders.
Orders were down 20% reported and down 11% organically.
Equipment orders were down 14% and flat organically.
Turbo machinery was higher by 40% driven by new LNG orders and downstream was higher by 53% from strength in sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East.
The strength in turbo machinery and downstream were offset by subsea which was down 48% on tough comparisons and surface was down 31% on weak North American demand.
Service orders in the quarter were down 26% and down 20% organically.
Turbo machinery and subsea were down 36% and 30% respectively.
M&amp;C was down 22% principally driven by the Wayne disposition and a softer market.
Downstream was up 23%.
Revenues of just under $4.1 billion were down 15% reported and down 4% organically driven by foreign exchange and the Wayne disposition.
Equipment revenues were down 20% reported down 8% organically principally driven by turbo machinery down 20% or 7% organically and surface down 24%.
M&amp;C was stronger by 10% organically and service revenues were down 9% but up 1% organically.
Operating profit was down 12% to $583 million in the quarter but was up 5% versus last year organically.
Foreign exchange translation was a $115 million headwind in the quarter.
Margins grew 40 basis points and were up 140 basis points organically.
The business executed well delivering on manufacturing productivity positive value gap and executed restructuring.
Through the first half Oil &amp; Gas revenues were down 12% reported and down 2% organically.
Operating profit was down 9% reported but was up 8% organically.
Margins improved 40 basis points reported and 120 basis points organically for the half.
The business team is ahead of their plan to take out $600 million of costs this year.
The framework we laid out for you at EPG of operating profit down 5% to 10% reported and down 0% to 5% organically is unchanged.
Next up is Aviation.
Global air travel continues to grow robustly.
Passenger traffic grew 6.3% year-to-date through May with strength in both domestic and international travel.
Most regions saw strength and air freight volumes grew 4% year-to-date.
Aviation had very strong orders performance in the second quarter with $7.6 billion of orders up 30%.
Equipment orders grew 37% to $4 billion driven by commercial engine orders growth of 71%.
GE90 and GE9X orders of $2 billion were higher by 12 times with key orders from United Korean Air Qatar and ANA.
GEnx orders were higher by three times.
Commercial engine backlog grew 43% in the quarter to $29 billion.
Military government orders were down 31% more or less as expected.
Service orders were up 23% with commercial spares up strongly at 33% or $37.9 million a day and military service orders were up 73%.
Services backlog ended at $107 billion up 7%.
Revenues in the quarter of $6.3 billion were up 3% with commercial equipment higher by 7%.
The business shipped 86 GEnx engines versus 75 a year ago which includes 15 units delay from the first quarter.
Military equipment was lower by 12%.
Service revenue was up 6% and commercial spare parts higher by 30% and military was higher by 15%.
That was partially offset by lower commercial time-and-material shop visits.
Operating profit was 6% higher than the second quarter of 2014 driven by strong value gap and base cost productivity.
Margins expanded 60 basis points in the quarter.
The Aviation team continues to deliver operationally and win commercially as they execute on multiple new product introductions.
At this year's Paris Air Show we announced $19 billion of orders and commitments.
LEAP testing and performance remains on track and the first LEAP installed engines will go into service in mid 2016.
On Healthcare orders of $4.7 billion were down 3% but up 4% organically.
Orders in the U.S grew 3% Europe was down 13% but up 7% organically.
And Japan was up 12% organically with Africa higher by 40%.
Offsetting these strong organic results were the Middle East down 6% driven by Saudi and China down 7% on continued slow public tenders.
In terms of business lines Healthcare systems orders were down 3% reported but up 3% organically.
U.S.
imaging and ultrasound were up strongly at 8% with MRI higher by 17% and ultrasound up 7%.
Japan was up 1% and up 19% ex the impact of the yen.
Africa was up 42% on a large Minister of Health deal in Kenya.
And China was soft it was down 9% in the quarter.
Life science orders were down 2% reported but up 7% organic with bioprocess continuing to grow up 13% organically.
Revenues in the quarter were down 3% up 3% organically.
Healthcare systems revenues were up 3% organic and life sciences grew 8% organic.
Operating profit was down 3% reported but up 2% ex-foreign exchange.
Volume growth and productive was partially offset by foreign exchange and price.
Margin rates were flat in the quarter.
So the U.S.
market continues to grow.
Europe appears stable.
We believe we continue to take share in most of the markets we operate in.
China remains a challenge with slow tenders but we do not think there is an underlying demand problem.
We really like the outlook and the growth trajectory for the bio-process business within life science.
Next up is Transportation.
Rail volumes were down 1.8% in the second quarter with car loads down 7% driven by coal petroleum and agriculture and that was partially offset by a 4.4% increase in intermodal traffic.
Rail volumes for the half were essentially flat with last year.
Transportation orders were down 5% in the quarter driven by lower equipment orders down 19% partly offset by 6% growth in services.
Locomotive orders in North America were lower by 99 units partly offset by strong international orders.
Service strength was driven by $115 million order for Movement Planner and our solutions software business and very good spare parts demand.
Backlog grew 32% year-over-year to $21 billion.
Revenues were up 9% principally driven by equipment growth of 13% and services higher by 6%.
We shipped 191 locomotives in the quarter versus 165 in the second quarter of 2014.
Operating profit was up strongly at 23% driven by higher locomotive and parts volume strong productivity partly offset by mining mix and Tier 4 ramp costs.
Margins improved in the quarter 260 basis points versus last year.
We currently have 18 pre-production Tier 4 units in revenue service with customers and we will begin shipping our first production units this month.
The launch remains on track.
In Energy Management orders were $2 billion in the quarter up 5%.
Orders were higher by 13% excluding the effects of FX.
The business saw strength in power conversion higher by 33% partly offset by digital energy down 5% and industrial solutions down 6% but roughly flat organically.
Strength in power conversion was driven by higher penetration of renewables market where the business has grown its share 50% in the last year.
This was partially offset by weakness in oil and gas related marine space.
Backlog grew 10% to $5.5 billion in the quarter.
Revenues of $1.8 billion were down 5% but up 4% organically.
Organically power conversion was higher by 13% digital energy up 2% and industrial systems was down 2%.
Operating profit was up 19% versus last year and up 40% organically.
Growth was driven by strong productivity more than offsetting foreign exchange.
Margins improved 90 basis points in the second quarter.
Through the first half Energy Management operating profit was up 49% reported and up 96% organically.
Finally with Appliances &amp; Lighting revenue was up 5% in the quarter with Appliances up 7% on strong volume and Lighting was up 2%.
The U.S.
appliance industry units were higher by 6% with retail up 5% and contract up 12% on robust housing starts.
And Lighting revenue growth was driven by LED which was up 77% partially offset by a 17% decline in the traditional products.
LED now accounts for 36% of Lighting revenue up 15 points from last year.
We believe we're on track for approximately $1 billion of LED revenue in 2015.
Operating profit was higher by 62% in the second quarter driven by higher volume and strong productivity.
As has been reported the U.S.
antitrust authorities have filed suit to challenge the sale of GE Appliances to Electrolux and we plan to vigorously defend the transaction in court.
We expect the trial to begin in the fourth quarter and our goal remains to close this deal this year.
We are confident the transaction is good for customers and consumers and that acquiring the GE Appliances brand would help Electrolux compete in an increasingly global and intensely and competitive industry.
And finally I'll cover GE Capital.
As I discussed earlier our Vertical businesses earned $531 million this quarter up 19% from prior year on strong performances across Aviation Energy and Healthcare.
Portfolio quality is stable and GECAS finished the quarter with only one aircraft on the ground.
The Verticals generated $2.2 billion of volume in the quarter up 4% and 80% of the GECAS volume and commitments were powered by GE's CFM equipment.
Energy finance arranged deals in the quarter that will fund over 180 GE wind turbines.
Working down the page Consumer earned $459 million during the quarter down 3% driven by Synchrony's minority interest.
Our share of the Synchrony earnings was $463 million.
In the quarter the Synchrony team filed for separation with the Federal Reserve and we continue to target year-end subject to regulatory approval.
As in prior quarters CEO Margaret Keane will host Synchrony's earnings call later today.
Corporate generated $772 million charge in the quarter driven by exit related tax and restructuring charges headquarter run-off operating expenses excess interest and our preferred dividend of $160 million in the quarter.
Discontinued operations ended the quarter with a $3.7 billion loss.
Results were driven by our commercial lending and leasing business as the majority of that business was moved to discontinued operations in the second quarter as you will have seen from our 8-K published in early July.
As part of accelerating our timeline we recognized $4.3 billion held-for-sale loss which includes the write-off of $8 billion of goodwill.
This charge is included in the $23 billion total cost construct we shared with you in April.
On an economic basis we expect the CLL portfolios to generate a gain versus our tangible equity.
Other earnings from discontinued operations were $582 million for the quarter and are primarily driven by CLL operations.
Overall GE Capital reported a $3.5 billion loss and we ended the quarter with $179 billion of ENI excluding liquidity.
That's down $124 billion from the prior quarter.
Our liquidity levels remain strong and we ended the quarter at $85 billion including $14 billion attributable to Synchrony and our Basel III Tier-1 common ratio was 11.4%.
That's up 80 basis points from the first quarter.
We expect this ratio to continue to improve as we dispose off risk-weighted assets.
In terms of portfolio sales the team continues to make good progress.
During the quarter we signed deals representing approximately $23 billion of ENI bringing our year-to-date total to $68 billion.
There continues to be strong interest in our portfolios and we have $80 billion of additional ENI in the market currently.
By year-end we are on track to close approximately $100 billion and sign between $120 billion and $150 billion in total.
We expect to be largely complete with our exit plan by year-end 2016 a year earlier than our original plan that we shared with you in April.
At the bottom of the page is the 2015 dividend matrix we shared with you on April 10 when we announced the GE Capital exit.
We are operating the business through the process at 14% Tier-1 common.
As I discussed earlier we ended the quarter at 11.4% Tier-1 common.
We expect to improve the ratio to 14% or better by year-end as we close $100 billion of estimated deals.
Overall Keith and the GE Capital team delivered a strong operational quarter and remain focused on delivering on the portfolio transformation.
With that I'll turn it back to Jeff.
Thanks Jeff.
We have a few adjustments to the 2015 operating framework.
We're increasing the low end of the range with new expectations of $1.13 to $1.20.
So far this year organic growth and margin expansion are trending towards the high end of our expectations and we expect this to continue.
We're still planning for our transactions to close by the end of the year.
The Verticals will remain on track for $0.15 EPS and the accounting around Capital exits are consistent with our plan.
We think it's likely that the Synchrony split occurs this year.
GE Capital asset sales closings are tracking towards $100 billion of ENI and we expect signings in excess of that number.
Free cash flow is on track for $12 billion to $15 billion and we're hoping to expand the GE Capital dividend based on faster asset sales.
And just for perspective Appliances represents about $2 billion of the dispositioned cash.
We've showed a range of $10 billion to $30 billion of cash returned to investors.
Our capital allocation plans are on track.
And if Synchrony occurs this year we will be at the high end of this range.
So the GE team is executing.
Despite managing a substantial portfolio pivot our operating execution remains excellent.
We're gaining momentum towards our long-term goals and going forward we can give investors strong Industrial EPS growth while returning significant cash through dividends and buyback.
And we've created a premier industrial company well positioned to win in this environment.
So Matt let's take some questions.
Thanks Jeff.
I'll now turn it over to the operator to open up the phone lines for questions.
Our first question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> Happy Friday summer.
Hopefully we can all go home a little early as this earnings release is relatively easy to get through versus the past so thanks for that.
I wanted to ask a couple questions and first one just related to Oil &amp; Gas.
When you take the order book and the pricing in that order book and you push it forward to whatever the typical backlog of that is let's say it's six months or so can you hold margins when you get to that timeframe? How does that mix shift look? I'm just trying to get a sense of how you even think about modeling a down 20%-plus order book in that business.
Scott I'll start and then let Jeff also add some perspective.
I think our expectation always was that we could hold margins as we went through this process.
And you've seen that so far this year.
I think going into the cyclicality in oil and gas there were a number of I would say inefficiencies already in the industry.
So I think there were good productivity opportunities from the start.
We'll take out $600 million-ish of cost this year.
That will be more next year.
So we've been able to do a good job on cost.
And I think the combination of those things and the mix of businesses we have I think gives us a perspective that we should be able to hold on margins going forward despite a more challenging market.
The only thing I would add is that $1 billion cost-out target for 2016 is absolutely critical to me.
There's no question that although we've not repriced any of the existing order book there's no question that new orders are going to be challenging from a pricing perspective.
That's why all the work around restructuring and product service cost is so critical in terms of profitability and operating margins.
So the team is executing ahead of plan.
We feel really good about their ability to execute on that cost roadmap that we've laid out with them.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as a follow -p just on asset sales you made a commentary and said that things are ahead of plan.
Volume is certainly ahead of plan.
But can you give us a sense of the pricing and how  and I know this stuff hasn't happened yet but indications of interest and such and you're probably in various stages of price discovery.
But give us a sense of really where pricing is coming in versus your expectations.
So if you think about it in terms of deals that Keith and the team have signed right now we're roughly  excluding real estate we're about 5% a little over 5% ahead of the fair values we used on the April 10 call over the baseline if you will for the Hubble.
So so far I think we're doing better on price than that baseline.
Having said that because we're accelerating the sales of these portfolios and franchises that means the earnings that we're going to enjoy over what we thought the whole period was going to be is shortened.
And so right now I would say those two things more or less offset each other.
Better on price for what we signed so far but we're selling them quick and we'll earn less as a result of not owning them as long as we thought.
Inc.</span></strong> We can live with that.
So still on track for the prices.
Yes still on track.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah now I get it.
Okay.
Thanks guys and good luck.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
The next question comes from Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Hey.
Thanks and good morning guys.
Hey Steve.
So I just want to make sure I understand a little bit how you're thinking about the one-time items and restructuring offsetting the gains.
On the NBCU gains side what drove that this many years later? And how do you think about that from an accounting or maybe reporting perspective in terms of comparison with Lake and other things that you treated in discontinued operations versus putting this one in continued op? I just want to understand the logic there.
It was a result of an agreement when the initial JV was set up.
It hit a life span that spanned many years and in the second quarter we and Comcast agreed to settle that arrangement if you will.
It was $450 million in the quarter as we talked about about $0.03 after tax.
The accounting around it has it in continuing operations the accounting doesn't push it into discontinued operations.
So it's just a function of how the accounting works.
Okay.
But why would Lake have been in DiscOps but not this? Because we moved the whole Lake operation into discontinued operations and including the liability that we had with Shinsei associated with it around the guarantee and the runoff of that book.
Okay.
We had a contiguous piece of NBC as a result of this JV operation that was in continuing ops and we just settled it.
And it's always been there.
Okay all right fair enough.
Next question what is the transactions that we're talking about? I know you can't comment a lot on Appliances and Alstom.
If they do not close by the end of the year how would that affect the operating framework that you've laid out quantitatively? So here's how I think about it.
I mean generally speaking if we didn't close Alstom the impact in 2015 would be pretty de minimis.
It would not have that big an impact.
I think we told you that we were expecting Alstom net of everything to be about a $0.01 a share in the year.
So on Appliances obviously the framework included the gain associated with Appliances.
And we pick up a couple more quarters of earnings than we had anticipated that will offset part of that.
And then we'd relook at what we're doing around restructuring.
Right now we're talking about $0.12 of restructuring and we'd rethink about whether we're going to do $0.12 of restructuring.
So that's how we're thinking about the framework for the year.
Okay.
And on that topic Jeff I know you set expectations for how you were thinking about potential concessions with Alstom at EPG and you guys were on the table this week on that front and you can't disclose the detail but can you let us know how consistent what you provided is with your prior commentary? So Steve again we're constrained on what we can say.
I think the proposal is confidential and it's not final really until the commission evaluates and make a decision.
What I would say is that we proposed a remedy that addressed their concerns while preserving really the strategic and economic rationale that I reviewed with you guys in the past.
And look we still like the deal for the company and more news as the process goes on.
But we like the deal and it's consistent with the things economically that we've talked about as the rationale for the deal.
Okay Thanks.
I'll hand it on.
The next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
Good morning.
Good morning Shannon.
Hey.
Can we go through a little bit more on these margin drivers they moved a decent bit from what they were in the first quarter.
The mix got a lot more negative.
I think GEnx was a good part of that and then value gap and cost productivity got a lot better.
Can you just run through kind of what moved those things relative to what we saw last quarter? Yeah sure Shannon.
So as you know mix was actually a good guy in the first quarter.
It was negative during the second quarter at 70 basis points.
For the half it's negative 10 basis points.
As we said in the first quarter we expected mix to turn around a little bit here in the second quarter and in fact it did.
And you're correct part of that is the higher GEnx shipments and it's also a function of higher wind shipments and lower distributed power quarter-to-quarter.
So that's what happened on the mix line.
Value gap got substantially better.
Value gap in the second quarter was about $193 million.
It's $221 million for the half so up substantially from $28 million of value gap in the first quarter.
And we continue to deliver cost productivity on product and service.
And so the second quarter we had 60 basis points of margin improvement in the gross margin line and then 70 basis points at op profit.
So the net of simplification and other inflation added 10 basis points below gross margins.
So that gave us first half of 70 basis points improvement in the gross margin line and 100 basis points at op profit so those were really the dynamics.
I think mix turned around like we thought it would versus extremely strong first quarter and value gap got substantially better.
And how should we think about these different dynamics playing out for the rest of the year? So I think what we said earlier in the year is that we thought mix would be plus or minus for the year.
And I think we still feel like based on backlog and what we expect order shipments to look like for that to be roughly correct.
I said value gap for the year would be roughly as it was in 2014.
2014 was about $300 million.
We're a little ahead of that run rate here through the half.
We'll see how that plays out.
Price has been pretty good actually both in Power &amp; Water and Aviation.
So that's how I  I don't think the framework is changed materially from what we told you earlier in the year.
Okay.
And then just on assessing this 2015 Capital dividend we got the $100 billion of sale assumptions and the 14% Tier-1.
Is there something else that could move that significantly off of being a $1 billion dividend plan for the year for Capital? Well I think we're hopeful that as we move through and Keith and the team close these $100 billion of transactions that that 11.4% Tier-1 common rate is going to move to 14% and beyond.
And for them to be in a position to dividend as money this year we need to be above the 14%.
We have a few other moving pieces we're working.
We have a stress test we got to do et cetera.
But we're hopeful that we can outperform the $500 million certainly they've given us so far.
And we gave you a range here of $0.5 billion to $7 billion in April 10 and I think we're kind of still in that range.
And is there a time when you make that decision or is it based on the timing of asset sales? It's based on the timing of asset sales and more likely not would be late fourth quarter.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
The next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Deane.
How are you doing? Doing really well thanks.
Hey just going back to the Alstom deal and I know there's sensitivities here but can we talk about the plan B? If you do have to walk away from a compromised deal is it clear that you would put all that deal Capital right into buybacks? Deane I'm just not going to go there.
I think we like this deal.
It's our intention to really close the deal and that's really where our stand is.
So let's just leave it at that.
Sure.
I appreciate that.
And then just moving the focus over to geographical for a moment.
And I don't know it just struck me as ironic that this quarter the growth markets were the laggards.
And maybe you can comment on that in particular the 2% Healthcare was weak in China but it doesn't seem to be a longer term trend.
But just kind of parse through the dynamics on the growth markets.
So let's see Deane.
I'd say the  if I just gave you a kind of half to-date on China the orders are up 15% and the revenue's up 12% that's kind of let's say first half 2015 versus first half 2014.
And then if you looked at some of the growth regions from a standpoint of orders I'd say Latin America and Middle East/North Africa those places are hanging in there.
We're certainly seeing pressure in places like Russia and ASEAN countries.
But I'd say the strength is the diversity of the portfolio and it's our expectation for the year that these are kind of ex-FX probably high single digits mid to high single-digits on the growth regions for the year.
Yeah I would just add Jeff that we're kind of in the cycle now where the developed markets are stronger than...
Yeah.
So in the U.S.
in the second quarter we were up 10% on orders.
I talked about Japan being up ex-FX up very strong up 86%.
And Europe was actually up 4% ex the effects of exchange.
So the developed markets seem to be getting a little bit stronger and the developing markets are certainly much more mixed.
I'd say mixed yeah.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Deane.
The next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Jeff.
Hey just a couple questions.
Just on the additional restructuring I was just wondering what it is you might be targeting? And I guess specifically thinking about the quarter it sounds like only about 40% of the restructuring spend is actions that might have some kind of payback as opposed to mortality and other kind of loose ends cleanup.
Is that correct and how do we think about that going forward? So we think we have a number of opportunities to increase the amount of restructuring to get ourselves positioned for 2016 and beyond particularly around competitiveness.
As I said earlier if for some reason we didn't close Appliances we may take a harder look at that.
Of the restructuring we spent in the quarter about $140 million of that was in Oil &amp; Gas and we see very good paybacks around that.
All the projects we're working on today are all inside of the 1.5 year payback kind of benchmark that we've shared with you over time.
The nature of the restructuring has changed pretty dramatically though.
There's about  less than a third of what we're doing today is SG&amp;A related and more like 70%  75% of it is product and services.
We really focus on gross margins in products and service cost competitiveness.
So I think we're on track to invest at very good returns and restructuring this year and they're critical to delivering not only the year but setting us up to deliver on 2016 and beyond.
And is the mortality hit just a one-time adjustment? I thought that was more of an ongoing change in pension costs.
It's a change for the year that we planned out in restructuring and other charges.
It's about $40 million in the quarter pre-tax so it's $20 million after tax.
It's not a big item.
And then just switching gears Oil &amp; Gas Services the weakness in orders there what's actually driving that? It's a little surprising it's weaker than equipment orders.
Do you see people pulling back on OpEx as opposed to CapEx or some other timing noise there in the quarter? Some of it's timing.
Services across the board were pretty challenged here in the quarter.
I would say the biggest driver as you would probably expect has been surface.
Orders were quite weak around pressure control well performance solutions.
Lufkin was down 40% in the quarter.
So that's really where the challenge is.
But each one of the businesses had a challenge around service in the quarter.
Great thank you.
The next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hi thank you.
I just wanted to ask around the PGS orders.
I think they were very strong up 17% or so.
You called out what's going on in some of the emerging markets but maybe give some more color on thermal power services in the U.S.
and Europe what you're seeing.
Again excellent work on the AGPs I would say Julian continues to be robust.
I think just the overall mix and usage around gas turbines is high as there's an incremental shift from coal.
So those remain two big drivers I think of power gen services.
And I would say DP services despite the new unit being softer in distributed power the distributed power service business has done very well in terms of upgrades and service performance.
So I think they had another good quarter and are pretty well positioned for the rest of the year.
I'll just do a quick run through.
So service is up 17% as you referred to.
Jeff talked about 39 AGPs in orders in the quarter.
That's up 20 versus last year very strong.
But distributed power services were up 27% and regionally orders were very strong.
In the Middle East we're up above 60%.
And ASEAN China the combination of ASEAN China and India was up 38%.
So very strong in the quarter and we like where the business is heading for the year as well.
Thanks.
And Oil &amp; Gas a fairly disparate collection of assets and backlog length and so on.
You sound pretty confident on the earnings outlook for this year for that segment.
How much of the balance of the second half sales and earnings are in your backlog as of now? So at the moment in total about 67% of sales in the third and fourth quarter are in backlog.
As you would expect subsea and drilling were closer to 85% in backlog TMS much higher downstream technology about 80% backlog.
So the business that's got the biggest and closest to a flow business is surface.
Surface got about a third of their second half revenue in backlog.
So we think we're in pretty good shape here for the balance of 2015.
Again I would go to the mix of businesses.
Turbo machinery and downstream continue to be reasonably strong.
Surface as Jeff said is the most challenged.
So I think the mix of businesses helps give us a little bit more visibility than maybe some others.
Thanks.
And just very quickly Healthcare should we think profits are maybe flat this year rather than seeing growth? I think they were flat in the first half.
No I think organically earnings are definitely going to be up and we expect a team with restructuring and the fact that the U.S.
market is doing better we expect earnings growth in the second half even without FX.
Great thanks.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Hello thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Nigel.
Hi.
I just wanted to continue with the Oil &amp; Gas theme.
Pricing this quarter is actually better than last quarter down 1.2% versus down 1.4%.
I'm just wondering.
Do you feel that the boundaries on Oil &amp; Gas are now more defined? Do you feel more confidence in where this goes in the second half of the year? And are you confident you can maintain price deflation in this zone? Look I still think Nigel the industry is forming so I think there's still volatility around oil price.
I think we've taken a lot of costs out.
I think everybody's learned how to compete at lower prices for oil.
So I'm very confident in our ability to execute on the cost side.
I would say the repricing is still de minimis so we're not seeing massive headwind from that.
And I just think it's one of those that we're going to have to continue to give you updates on where the market is.
But I just think we can manage our way through this.
Okay.
Julian alluded to the Healthcare margins and I'm wondering.
What is holding back the margins? We've seen a positive mix in life sciences.
Obviously there's a lot of work on G&amp;A.
So I'm wondering.
Are we seeing here a negative mix as developed markets outperform emerging markets? These guys have  how much FX is in this Healthcare number Jeff? It's more than $100 million isn't it? Yes FX in Healthcare was $40 million of translation in the quarter.
Okay.
And that's why the organic number is better than (52:53).
Yeah.
Now I think what we have going on in Healthcare they've got a real price challenge.
Price sequentially is down over a point.
They've continued to get base cost productivity.
Where we need them to focus is on product and service margins.
So it's not necessarily a mix issue.
You're absolutely right life science and bioprocess continues to grow.
What we need to get at is product and service costs within the core HCS business and that's what we're focused on driving.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just a final one.
Obviously Alstom there's not a lot you can say there but it's in the press that there's a deadline for your proposals and you've already made proposals.
Are we still working towards the middle list timeline for a decision or is that being pushed back to later in the quarter? I think the timeline right now is in early to mid-September I believe is where the timeline is Nigel.
And I think that's probably a pretty good timeframe.
Okay.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks a lot guys.
Yeah.
The next question comes from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes good morning.
Hey Andrew.
Just more Oil &amp; Gas.
So what are you hearing about your customers on oil and gas side? Are you getting pressure requests to be the consolidator of the supply chain? It just seems that people broadly want to deal with people with real balance sheets and people that can survive the storm.
Look Andrew I think that there's a certain amount that I think is going to be in play in that regard.
I don't think that is a recent phenomenon.
I think that started back several years.
And so there remains in the oil and gas business a real opportunity to drive better system efficiency between suppliers and the IOCs and the NOCs.
And we look at this cycle as a good opportunity for us to drive efficiency.
Okay and just a follow-up question.
Looking your organic growth rates and order growth rates and compare them to what we're seeing from the macro it just seems you guys are taking market share.
You're a very large company taking a lot of market share.
How long do you think you can do it without triggering a price response from your competition that's seemingly getting clobbered? Look in our world technology matters.
And so if you look at the Aviation business if you look at locomotives if you look at gas turbines if you look at Healthcare we have a great lineup of technologies that are quite robust.
And in the end that's the way you can gain good market position and margins at the same time.
And then on the service side I think our analytics are starting to play through both from a pricing standpoint and also from a productivity standpoint.
So that's another example of technology and what it can drive.
So I think...
So you'll look at it as a payoff on your investments over the past couple or many years.
Definitely.
I definitely do.
Thank you.
Great.
Jeff.
A few quick items before you wrap up.
The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
We'll hold our third quarter 2015 earnings webcast on Friday October 16.
And as always we'll be available later today for questions.
Jeff? Great.
Thanks Matt.
Again I think you guys see the portfolio taking shape and the hard work we've done.
But I really want to call out the great execution by the GE team in the quarter.
I think margins organic growth cash GE Capital portfolio re-positioning the GE team really did a great job of execution in the quarter.
So Matt back to you.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Ellen and I will be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like turn the program over to your host for todays conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings webcast.
We issued the press release presentation and supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
For todays webcast we have Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; Vice Chairman and CEO of GE Capital Keith Sherin; and our CFO Jeff Bornstein.
Now Ill turn it over to Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
The GE team had a good quarter and a slow growth in volatile environment.
Organic performance was strong and industrial revenue growth was up 4% profit was up 9% year-to-date industrial CFOA is up 23% and industrial segment margins were up 100 basis points.
Let me make a few comments on were seeing our markets more broadly.
The U.S.
is still okay and Europe is appreciably better.
Meanwhile growth markets are facing some headwinds in resource pricing and currency.
Nonetheless were positioned to win some big fourth quarter deals in these markets in locomotives and power aviation and power conversion which should support our growth objectives; and service provides a great buffer in times of uncertainty.
We made substantial progress on GEs portfolio transformation in the quarter.
Alstom has been approved by the European Commission and we expect this to close soon.
The Fed has approved the Synchrony separation and we expect to commence the share exchange next week.
The net effect of this should be to return about $20 billion to investors in the form of share reduction.
Our GE Capital portfolio sales are ahead of plan; and with the Wells announcement we now expect 2015 signings of $140 billion to $150 billion.
And we believe this will facilitate an incremental dividend from GE Capital of $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter or $3 billion for the year.
So if you look at our execution were tracking to meet or beat all of our critical goals.
Were reconfirming our earnings outlook that we gave in the second quarter when we boosted the low end of our range.
And our CFOA and cash return to investors will be at the high-end of our framework.
So Keith and I will now take you through a deeper dive on the portfolio moves.
For Alstom all the major regulators have now approved GEs purchase of Alstom with remedies.
Were comfortable with the outcome as the economic and strategic impact of the deal remains intact.
We will divest to Ansaldo the GT26 new units and the GT36 technology and 34 of 720 service contracts in the installed base.
We will retain the ability to do service for competitive units through PSM.
Financially we still expect to achieve $3 billion of synergies with $0.05 to $0.08 of earnings accretion in 2016 and $0.15 to $0.20 by 2018.
Alstom grows GEs installed base by 50%.
In addition they will substantially improve our position in renewables and grid.
Alstom will achieve a strong return for investors and we will give you more operating details on Alstom at a special meeting we plan to hold in late November.
Now over to Keith to give you an update on the GE Capital portfolio moves.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
As Jeff mentioned we have received formal approval from the Federal Reserve to move forward with the split off of Synchrony Financial as a standalone company.
This is the final step in a project which we started two years ago and is a key component in the transformation of GE Capital.
We cant talk about the specific financial terms of this exchange until we launch.
However to provide some context on the left side of the page we show the timeline and mechanics for the exchange.
We plan to launch the split exchange next week subject to market conditions.
The offer period remains open for 20 business days from the time of launch.
And at launch were going to set the offer terms for the exchange meaning the split discount that holders will receive on Synchrony stock when they exchange their GE shares plus the exchange cap ratio which is the maximum discount between GE and Synchrony shares set at the time of the launch.
The pricing for the split exchange will happen on days 16 to 18 and the offer closes on day 20 which would occur the week of November 16.
Based on precedents from other exchanges that have taken place and the current stock prices of GE and Synchrony we anticipate to receive proceeds of between $18 billion and $21 billion which translate to a buyback of 650 million to 750 million shares in GE.
The range in outcomes is determined by the split discount the exchange ratio and the movement of GE and Synchrony shares prior to and during the exchange up to pricing.
We anticipate that well record a gain in GE Capital in discontinued operations and that gain the size of which is dependent on the final split discount will be embedded in the proceeds for the buyback so well not have any impact on GECC Capital ratios.
I really like to thank Margaret Keane and her team for the terrific work theyve done to position Synchrony for this separation.
In the next 30.days we plan to retire 6% to 7% of GE shares.
Next Ill give you an update on our progress executing the plan that we announced on April 10th.
On the top left of this chart is an update on the portfolio sales.
We are ahead of plan.
And in the first six months since the announcement weve signed deals on $126 billion worth of ENI.
Since 2Q weve signed $58 billion worth of transactions the largest being the $30 billion sale of our distribution finance vendor finance and direct lending businesses to Wells Fargo which we announced earlier this week.
We gave previous guidance that we would sign $120 billion to $150 billion of deals by year-end and were now raising the low end of that range to $140 billion given the progress weve made.
We have closed $60 billion of sales to date and were on track to close $100 billion by year-end.
On the bottom left you can see our current view versus the goals that we established back on April 10.
Were ahead of plan on asset sales and we expect to largely be done with our exits by year-end 2016 instead of 2017.
Overall were on track to deliver the $35 billion of capital back to the parent.
You can see on the top right that our pricing to date on the $126 billion is slightly ahead of plan at 1.4 times price to tangible book.
And the deal that we announced with Wells earlier this week was also at approximately 1.4 times price to tangible book.
As a result of the accelerated sales we are giving up some of the future income from the total plan.
But overall with our asset and liability management actions including the debt exchange that we completed our current estimate of capital to be returned is still $35 billion.
In terms of timing of dividends as we close sales transactions in the fourth quarter we expect our Tier 1 common ratio to exceed 14% and we plan to pay a dividend of approximately $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter subject to our governance process.
That would result in $3 billion for 2015 which is $2 billion higher than the original plan.
In addition were on track for $18 billion of dividends that we previously said would come in 2016.
Our goal is to apply for SIFI de-designation which based on our view of transaction closings our target is to file in the first quarter of 2016.
If you combine the Synchrony split with the 2015 transaction closings we expect to end 2015 with around $175 billion of ENI around $200 billion lower than year end 2014.
I really like to thank the GE Capital employees who have accomplished a lot in the last six months and the team is focused on substantially completing the business exits by the end of 2016.
Let me turn it back to Jeff.
Thanks Keith.
And now Ill briefly go through GEs industrial operations.
Year-to-date orders are down 4% organically.
We faced some tough comps in orders compared to third quarter 2014 when total orders grew by 22% and equipment orders grew by 31%.
Organically developed markets are up 18% year-to-date with growth markets down 7% excluding a large one-time GE9X order.
Our year-to-date orders in China are up 1%.
Service grew by 6% organically and our progress was broad-based.
PowerGen services grew by 10% aviation spares grew by 28% and healthcare was up by 4% organically.
Power and water energy management and healthcare orders were up 9% organically.
However aviation and transportation has significant one-time orders placed in the third quarter of 2014 with GE9X and Tier 4.
These two products alone had $6 billion of orders in the third quarter of 2014.
Oil and gas orders reflect the impact of industry dynamics.
Our organic orders decline was 32% and is not unexpected.
We continue to compete well in the market and have not seen cancellations.
Importantly there are substantial equipment orders where weve been selected technically but they have been delayed.
So were confident in our market position.
Across the company we have a strong funnel of orders for the fourth quarter and we expect our orders performance to improve.
On execution the GE team executed very well in the quarter.
Organic revenue growth was up 4% with six of seven segments up.
Our relative position both in product and geographic diversity has never been stronger.
Globally revenue in the U.S.
was up 5% and Europe organic growth was up substantially while growth markets declined by 7%.
Year-to-date revenue was positive in ASEAN China Sub-Saharan Africa Latin America and Middle East and North Africa.
Meanwhile reasons like Russia Canada and Australia have been hard hit by natural resource dynamics.
Services were up 8% organically.
Growth for software and analytics was up 16% gaining momentum from our digital investments.
At minds and machines we launched Predix and now have more than 20 000 developers.
Were expanding partnerships with important customers like Boeing Exelon and BP.
Service growth was broad-based with power up 9% aviation up 17% transportation up 10% and healthcare up 3% organically.
Were winning with new products.
The H-Turbine has 67 technical selections with 21 in backlog.
Power conversion revenue grew by 15% behind multiple new product launches.
Our aviation engines are achieving market leadership by meeting customer commitments with superior execution.
We now have 10 000 LEAP engines in backlog.
Life sciences had 8% organic growth in the quarter.
And we have two important wins for bioprocess manufacturing in China.
We launched Current as a way to capitalize on 72% LED growth and the opportunity to build a strong presence in the C&amp;I energy efficiency space.
Margins continue to be a great GE story.
Segment op margins grew 100 basis points with growth in gross margins of 80 basis points and weve expanded our value gap by $300 million year-to-date and expect this to continue.
Our product margins are expanding and the analytics continue to drive productivity and services.
Restructuring is delivering substantial benefits and in all we think our margins can continue to grow.
This is our tenth straight quarter of margin expansion so we have real momentum.
I would like to highlight the work of our oil and gas team as a good example of our execution.
In a tough environment with organic revenue declining by 7% they grew margins by 100 basis points organically and held earnings.
This will position them well in a volatile industry.
Now cash is also a good story for the year.
Industrial CFOA is up 23% year-to-date.
Industrial free cash flow is up 53% and as is typical we expect a strong fourth quarter where we expect a $2 billion reduction in working capital similar to last year.
The great portfolio execution mentioned by Keith will allow for upside in our cash performance.
Based on accelerated progress in capital asset sales we should be able to dividend an additional $2.5 billion to the parent in the fourth quarter and this would be $3 billion for the year.
This will put the company at the high end of our CFOA range.
In an effective Synchrony execution should return about $20 billion to investors through a share exchange.
And this will put us about $30 billion of cash returned to investors for the year through dividend and buyback.
We still expect appliances to close in the quarter.
This is not a complicated transaction.
Appliances is a highly competitive industry with at least seven manufacturers and 21 brands.
Electrolux wants to close and is working hard to do so.
So the GE balance sheet is very strong and we will finish the year with substantial liquidity.
And now over to Jeff to go through operations.
Great thanks Jeff.
Ill start with the third quarter summary.
We had revenues of $31.7 billion which were down 1% in the quarter.
Industrial revenues including corporate were down 2% to $25.8 billion.
Industrial operating plus verticals EPS was $0.29 up 16% year-over-year with industrial up 9% and the verticals up 50%.
Operating EPS number of $0.32 adds in other continuing GE Capital activity including the consumer segment headquarter run-off and other exit related items which Ill cover in more detail on the GE Capital page.
Continuing EPS of $0.28 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS $0.25 includes the impact of discontinued operations.
The total disc ops impact for the quarter was a negative $347 million which included $1 billion of exit related non-cash charges.
These charges are within the framework of $23 billion exit impact that we communicated in April.
Partly offsetting the charge was income associated with operations in CLL and real estate which will move to disc ops earlier in the year.
As Jeff said we generated $6.5 billion of CFOA year-to-date which was down 9% driven by lower GE Capital dividends.
However industrial CFOA was $6.1 billion year-to-date up 23%.
The GE tax rate was 17% bringing the year-to-date rate to 20% which is in line with our current estimate for the total year rate.
The GE Capital reported rate was a negative 6% in the quarter which includes tax benefits associated with the plan to shrink GE Capital.
The vertical tax rate was 0%.
As we communicated previously as we complete the GE Capital restructuring we expect the verticals tax rate to be low double-digits.
On the right side you can see the segment results.
Industrial segment revenues were down 1% on a reported basis but up 4% organically reflecting about 5 points of headwind from foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange was $1.2 billion drag on industrial segment revenue and $165 million impact on industrial segment op profit.
Despite this headwind industrial segment operating profit was up 5% and organically the industrial segments were up 9%.
GE Capital Vertical earnings of $351 million in the quarter were up 55%.
Next Ill go through the earnings walk.
Consistent with last quarter we included a walk of the different elements of our earnings so that the dynamics are clear given all the moving pieces with GE Capital.
Starting with the first column on the left and working down industrial operating net income was $2.6 billion and vertical income was $351 million for a total industrial plus verticals operating earnings up $2.9 billion.
The GE Capital consumer segment earned $795 million during the quarter which Ill cover later.
On the other GE Capital line we incurred $411 million of cost driven by exit related tax and restructuring charges headquarter run-off operating expenses and excess interest.
As a result total operating earnings were $3.3 billion.
Including non-operating pension costs continuing earnings were $2.9 billion.
Discontinued operations were a charge of $347 million which I discussed on the previous page.
Adjusting for these items net earnings for the quarter were $2.5 billion.
In the center and far right columns you can see the associated EPS numbers and the variance versus prior year.
Next page on one-times we had $0.02 of charges related to ongoing industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to drive the cost competitiveness of the company.
Charges were $346 million on a pre-tax basis and $244 million after-tax.
About 45% of those charges related to restructuring in our oil and gas business as we continue to execute on our cost-out program.
We had no industrial gains in the quarter.
On the bottom of the page you can see the fourth quarter estimate.
Were expecting gains from appliances signaling and embedded systems transactions in the quarter.
For the year we continue to expect gains in restructuring to be balanced on an EPS basis.
Weve increased our expected restructuring from $0.11 to about $0.14 due to the higher gains we expect for the year.
We have additional attractive restructuring opportunities including Alstom which will offset the higher gains.
Now Ill go through each of the segments starting with power and water.
Orders in the quarters were up 8% and up 13% organically.
Equipment orders were up 7% to $3.5 billion on strength in distributed power higher by 61% renewables up 2% partly offset by thermal down 6%.
Distributed power was higher driven by two fast track power deals in Indonesia and Ghana and our first order for six LM6000 PF+ units in Thailand.
The new LM6000 PF+ attains 56 combined-cycle efficiencies which is the highest in its class.
It takes half the time to install versus its predecessor and can startup to full power in about 10 minutes.
Renewables orders were up 2% up 14% excluding FX on strong international orders.
Unit volumes were lower at 821 versus 839 a year ago but megawatts were up 9%.
Thermal orders were down 6% down 2% in ex-FX.
We took orders for 22 gas turbines versus 23 last year.
The business booked 4 H orders in the quarter: two in Pakistan one in Korea and one in the U.S.
This brings our total H units in backlog to 21 with an additional 47 technical ones a seven-unit increase from the second quarter.
Service orders grew 8% to $3.4 billion driven by strength in PGS up 10%.
We continue to see success in our upgrade campaigns including AGPs drive load NOCs Op Flex all of which enhance the performance of our machines.
In the quarter we booked 22 AGPs up four from the third quarter of last year.
Revenues in the quarter were up 1% and higher by 7% organically.
Equipment revenue was down 6% driven by thermal down 10% on 16 gas turbines shipments versus 26 a year ago.
And distributed power was down 30% on lower engine volume principally driven by weak demand in the gas compression market.
Renewables revenues were up 8% and up 19% excluding exchange on higher shipments of 735 wind turbines versus 642 last year.
Service revenues were strong up 9% led by PGS up 13% driven principally by upgrade sales.
AGPs totaled 22 in the quarter versus 18 a year ago.
Op profit was higher by 7% and up 10% organically.
Margins improved 100 basis points driven by service growth and cost productivity.
As we look to the fourth quarter no change to the framework weve given you on gas turbines and distributed power.
Wind is turning to the low end of the range we had given you previously of 3 000 to 3 200 turbines.
Next oil and gas the business continues to perform in a very difficult environment.
Orders in the quarter were down 38% and down 32% organically.
All segments saw lower orders given the constrained CapEx environment and project delays.
Equipment orders were down 60% with TMS down 57% driven by a large Canadian LNG push-out.
Subsea was down 81% with softness in both drilling and well stream.
Downstream was down 58% surface was down 49% on lower rig counts and M&amp;C was down 22% on softness in flow and process technology.
Service orders for the quarter were down 13% but down 4% organically principally driven by subsea and surface down 26% and 39% respectively.
And that was partially offset by TMS which was up 4% and up 20% organically on higher installations.
Backlog in the third quarter ended at $22.3 billion down 7% year-over-year.
Revenues in the quarter were down 16% to $3.9 billion and down 7% organically.
Foreign exchange had a $400 million impact on revenue.
Equipment revenues were down 18% and down 8% organically driven by surface down 36% and subsea lower by 12% down 3% ex-foreign exchange.
Organically TMS was down 3% and downstream was up 12%.
Service revenues were down 14% and down 5% organic with M&amp;C down 2%.
Op profit was lower by 12% versus last year and flat organically.
Foreign exchange was a $75 million headwind in the quarter.
The business continues to execute on cost and material inflation.
Value gap was positive with a very modest price impact.
Margins improved 70 basis points and 100 basis points excluding the effects of exchange.
Through three quarters revenues are down 13% and down 4% organically.
Operating profit is down 10% reported and up 5% organically.
We expect volume pressure to persist into the fourth quarter.
However given the strong execution on cost-out we believe that for total year organic op profit will be about flat year-over-year or slightly better versus the flat to down 5% guidance we provided earlier.
The team is making strong progress on achieving the $600 million of cost-out goal for 2015 and is well positioned to deliver $1 billion plus cumulatively of cost-out through 2016.
In aviation underlying travel demand continues to grow robustly higher by 6.6% year-to-date August with strength domestically and internationally.
The Middle East and Asia Pacific continue to be particularly strong.
Air freight volumes grew 2.6% through August.
Orders in the third quarter of $6.5 billion were down 35%.
The third quarter of 2014 included large orders received at the Farnborough Air Show.
Equipment orders were down 58% driven by commercial orders.
Last year we booked $3.8 billion of GE9X orders versus $600 million of GE99X orders this quarter.
GEnx orders of $600 million were up three times driven by strength in China and we had $800 million of LEAP CFM orders in the quarter.
Commercial engines backlog of just under $30 billion is higher by 22% versus last year.
Military orders were down significantly on non-repeat of international campaigns last year and soft U.S.
demand.
Services were very strong.
Service orders grew 13% on strong commercial spares growth up 28% at $39.5 million a day.
Military services were higher by 76%.
This was partly offset by overhaul volume being down.
Revenue in the quarter was up 5% to $6 billion.
Equipment revenues were down 6% with commercial down and military down 20%.
We shipped 64 GEnx units versus 65 last year and services revenue was up 17% with commercial spares higher by 22% and military up 16%.
Operating profit was up 7% driven by strong services volume and value gap.
Margins expanded 30 basis points in the quarter.
So solid quarter from the Aviation team.
The LEAP testing and performance remains on track with the first installs expected to be in service in mid-2016.
Next up is Healthcare.
Orders of $4.5 billion were down 4% reported but up 3% organically.
Geographically the U.S.
was down 1%; Europe was up strongly ex-foreign-exchange by 11% and down 5% reported; China was flat; and the Middle East grew 15%.
In terms of product lines Healthcare systems orders were down 7% but up 1% ex-foreign-exchange.
In the U.S.
orders were up 2% driven by strength in CT and MR which were higher by 10% and 15% respectively partially offset by weak x-ray.
The U.S.
appears to have performed in line with the market.
Europe was strong again up 7% organically.
Thats the fifth consecutive quarter of positive organic growth for us in Europe.
The Middle East grew 22%.
China was down 40% as orders continue to be impacted by lower public tenders.
The private-sector orders are growing at double-digit rates in China but off a much smaller base than the public market.
Life Sciences orders grew 11% organically and 4% reported.
Bioprocess grew 23% excluding FX with very strong demand in Europe up 42% and in China up 162%.
Healthcare revenues were down 5% in the quarter; up 2% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Healthcare systems was up 1% and Life Sciences grew 8% excluding FX.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 10% and down 4% organically.
Negative leverage was driven by lower value gap and higher new product spend which more than offset the cost productivity in the business.
Margins contracted 90 basis points in the quarter.
The third quarter was impacted by lower than expected volume in the growth markets and accelerated new product spend to drive future growth.
The business has seen strong customer interest in productivity analytics and as a result has accelerated their migration to the Predix platform and development of productivity applications.
In the fourth quarter we expect this level of higher product investment to continue.
We expect growth markets to remain challenging and developed markets to continue to show positive organic growth.
In Transportation North American carloads were down 2.2% primarily driven by lower coal and petroleum down about 9%.
That was partly offset by 2% intermodal growth.
Year-to-date rail volume is down about 1%.
Orders in the quarter were down 77% or about $3 billion as we expected driven by locomotives.
In the third quarter of 2014 we took a 3-fold increase or about 1 100 units in orders for Tier 4.
2014 large-order intake combined with the current global commodity cycle is pressuring demand for increment of locomotive power.
However we are working on several large opportunities and expect fourth-quarter locomotive orders to be much stronger.
Revenues in the quarter grew 3% driven by services up 10%.
Locomotive equipment revenues are up 11% partially offset by mining.
Operating profit was up 11% driven by volume productivity and deflation more than offsetting Tier 4 ramp costs.
Margins improved 160 basis points.
In Energy Management orders of $2.1 billion were up 2% and up 8% organically driven by strength in Renewables and our Power Conversion business which grew orders 16% up 26% organically.
Power Conversions Renewable orders were up over 4 times on deals won in conjunction with both GE and Alstom which offset the weak Oil &amp; Gas Marine segment.
Digital Energy orders were up 20% and Industrial Solutions was down 13%.
Revenues in the quarter were down 2% reported but up 6% exchange.
Organically Power Conversion was up 15% Digital Energy was up 8% and Industrial Solutions was flat.
Operating profit was higher by more than 2 times to $127 million in the quarter.
Higher earnings driven by strong cost productivity and value gap partly offset by negative FX.
Margins improved 390 basis points in the quarter.
In Appliances &amp; Lighting for the segment revenues grew 8% in the quarter with Appliances up 10% on strong volume and Lighting up 5%.
The U.S.
appliance industry was up 8% with retail up 9% and contract up 7%.
Lighting continued to grow LEDs.
LED revenue grew 65% partially offset by 15% decline in traditional products.
LEDs now account for 39% of Lighting revenue up from 25% a year ago.
Op profit in the quarter was up 88% driven by material deflation and cost productivity.
Next Ill cover GE Capital.
Our Vertical businesses earned $351 million this quarter; thats up 55% from prior year driven by transactional gains and lower annual impairments in our Aviation business partially offset by Oil &amp; Gas impairments in our Energy business.
Portfolio quality remained stable and GECAS finished the quarter with zero delinquencies and no AOGs.
Working down the page Consumer earned $795 million during the quarter up 28% on gains related to portfolio exits from the international platform partially offset by Synchrony minority interest.
Our share of Synchrony earnings was $493 million.
As in prior quarters CEO Margaret Keane will hold Synchronys earnings call later today.
As Keith covered we received approval from the Federal Reserve to proceed with the Synchrony separation and intend to launch the share exchange next week subject to market conditions.
GE Capital Corporate generated a $411 million loss in the quarter driven by GE Capital exit-related tax and restructuring charges excess interest expense and headquarters operating costs.
Discontinued operations ended the quarter with a $347 million loss driven by a $1 billion noncash charge associated with the execution of our portfolio exit strategy partially offset by operating results in the underlying businesses.
These charges are in line with the $23 billion total cost construct we shared with you in April.
Overall GE Capital reported $387 million of earnings and we ended the quarter with $176 billion of continuing ENI excluding liquidity.
The Verticals ended the quarter with $78 billion of ENI excluding liquidity.
Our liquidity levels remain strong and we ended the quarter with $97 billion including $15 billion attributable to Synchrony.
As part of GE Capitals internal reorganization we launched a debt exchange to capitalize our international entity and to better align our assets and liabilities from a maturity and liquidity perspective.
The exchange was oversubscribed and we accepted $36 billion of new bonds which were price on October 5; and well settle the transactions on October 26.
Our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 13.7% which is up 230 basis points from the second quarter.
We expect to achieve 14% Tier 1 common ratio by year-end inclusive of the additional $2.5 billion dividend that Keith mentioned previously.
Just some highlights on the right-hand side of the page.
The Verticals are on track to deliver $1.5 billion of earnings in 2015.
Asset sales are ahead of plan with $126 billion signed and $60 billion closed.
Once completed the Synchrony exchange will trigger the Consumer segment to move to discontinued operations.
Given our significant progress we plan to apply for SIFI de-designation in the first quarter of 2016.
In the last six months Keith and the GE Capital team have continued to deliver operationally and are well ahead of the plan on the portfolio transformation we shared with you in April.
With that Ill turn it back to Jeff.
Thanks Jeff.
Just to conclude we have a few updates on the operating framework.
Weve kept the Industrial EPS expectations of $1.13 to $1.20.
If Appliances close we will be closer to the high end of this range; and our execution on our organic growth margins and corporate costs remain strong.
We expect the GE Capital Verticals to be at least $0.50 with more strength in GECAS.
Capital asset sales should be at least $100 billion with more coming in the first quarter.
CFOA should be about $16 billion.
And free cash flows plus divestitures would be about $15 billion assuming that Appliances closes.
And we expect to return $30 billion to investors about reflecting the impact of Synchrony.
GE is executing on its investor commitments and is on track for its 2015 goals.
Our portfolio transformation is happening at an unprecedented pace.
We have a focused infrastructure business with leading positions in our markets and were positioned to grow faster than our competitors with a strong dividend.
Were growing operating and gross profit margins and making Corporate smaller.
We have nearly a $200 billion backlog of services that positions the Company well for any cycle and were transforming GE into the worlds premier digital industrial company in a unique position to drive outcomes for customers and grow margins.
Id like to take a moment to acknowledge the work of the GE team.
Last quarter we completed our largest Industrial acquisition completely repositioned GE Capital and launched one of the largest-ever IPOs.
At the same time were winning in the market and delivering strong financial results.
Im very proud of their work.
Now Matt back to you for questions.
Thanks Jeff.
Lots to talk about.
Lets open the lines up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
Is there a sense Jeff  and either Jeff I guess.
But Jeff Immelt is there a sense with the fall-off youve seen in orders that there is any risk we are entering a bit of an industrial recession particularly as it relates to growth markets? So you know Scott what I would say kind of going around the world is U.S.
gets a little bit better every day.
Europe is appreciably better.
Meanwhile growth markets are highly differentiated in terms of their performance and have some headwinds as it pertains to oil prices and things like that.
On balance Scott we see as much activity as weve ever seen.
The quoting activity the deal activity things like that is still quite robust.
Business for us in China is still pretty good which is a big market.
And so we still see a fair amount of opportunities out there even amongst the volatility.
So I really believe that we can still accomplish our long-term goals in the world we see today.
And then I would just remind you that weve got $200 billion backlog of services; its 70% or 80% of our earnings.
Its growing organically 8%.
So weve got a pretty robust underpinning of the total Company as we go forward.
But the quote activity is as robust today as it was six months ago or a year ago.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then its a little bit of a strange question but those of us who have followed you guys for a long time have seen I think a higher sense of urgency or at least an execution level thats been pretty high in the last year or so.
Like you said in the last six quarters you have beaten your margin targets or so.
What do you attribute? I mean you had a big change in compensation structure that kicked in in January.
I mean are we seeing just the benefit of past investments kind of pulling through? And how do you think about at least how do you attribute really this higher level of execution and how GE is different today maybe than it was just three years ago? So I would say Scott I would say again  great team.
The compensation plan clearly helps.
I think we made the investments three or four or five years ago that are helping us today in product lines and globalization and things like that.
I mean we dont  we have as robust of an NPI pipeline as weve ever had and were not dependent on any one country.
Weve got a very diversified country mix.
Thats some of the stuff that John Rice had done.
The last thing I would say Scott is look theres no way to describe what it feels like to run GE where the team knows exactly what it has to do over the next three years.
I mean our plan  we cant guarantee exactly what the macro environments going to be.
But between the GE Capital actions buying back stock organic growth integrating Alstom youve got a leadership team that knows precisely what we need to do for investors over the next three years.
And that is a place we havent been in certainly since the financial crisis.
That I think just helps everybody.
It helps people who own the stock and it gives the leadership team I think extra momentum as we go forward.
The next question comes from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Deane.
Hey I had been thinking it might be too early to ask about some specifics for your Oil &amp; Gas outlook for 2016 but you did just disclose the cost-out plan and the increase to cumulative to $1 billion there.
So hopefully you can share some of your assumptions maybe getting as granular as revenues and op profit for Oil &amp; Gas next year.
So you know Deane I would say in that its a market that is so visible and volatile I think Id start by reflecting a little bit on what weve done this year.
The team I think in a very tough environment has gotten after the costs has executed in the market has driven services.
So I think youd say if you reflect back on where we were in the fourth quarter last year and then where we sit today I think our Oil &amp; Gas team has done a fantastic job as it pertains to this year.
And then I think if we look forward and just  we dont assume that the market gets appreciably better.
We would say that revenue might be down 10% to 15% next year and that operating profit might be down 10% to 15% next year and that we hold margins in a tougher environment.
And thats  I think thats the kind of feel that we have.
And again we still want to go through and do all of our normal fourth quarter planning on the company but I just think its important to investors to have some visibility in terms of how we think about Oil &amp; Gas and triangulating backlog and things like that.
And just to clarify that 10% to 15% thats an organic number? Yes right All right.
Yes yes.
Good.
And then related to Oil &amp; Gas and you mentioned going back to the fourth quarter when oil was really still in a freefall  at the Outlook Meeting Jeff you said you could be opportunistic in looking at assets in Oil &amp; Gas.
And would love to hear what your thinking is today.
Is there any size parameters that you can share? Look guys we still like this industry.
I would go back Deane and  look we never as we built our portfolio in Oil &amp; Gas we never thought about it reflecting $120 for oil or anything else.
Our investment is really made along the lines of  we felt like the industry was going to be growing in technical intensity customer solutions that over time the Oil &amp; Gas business would look a lot like our Aviation business or our Power business or things like that and thats what led to the investments.
So were a long-term player in Oil &amp; Gas.
We like the industry.
Were committed to the industry.
I think as we look at opportunities and where we are today anything would have to hurdle above buying back our own shares.
And so well be opportunistic well be disciplined and we have an alternative that we think is still quite attractive for us of buying back our own shares.
Good thats helpful.
And just last question from me is one of the moving parts in the 2015 framework that is outside of your control is the timing the assumption of the close of Appliances.
Thats really  thats in the hands of Electrolux; its in the hands of the regulators.
So could you just remind us what that P&amp;L impact would be if that close gets pushed into 2016? Yes Deane.
So youll recall we talked about something that looked like a $0.06 a share gain associated with Appliances.
So if it got pushed out of the year wed probably rethink a little bit about what were doing on restructuring in the fourth quarter; we would consolidate a full quarter of Appliance earnings which would be a bit of an offset.
And more likely than not that would probably entail a breakup fee.
So we still think were well within the range of $1.13 to $1.20.
But probably that would push us to the bottom end of that range versus being at the top.
So weve thought through that and weve also thought through it in terms of cash.
I think were fine.
Were closing on Alstom and doing everything we need to do around cash flow even without closing Appliances.
I think Deane the base assumption is still that we close this deal.
I think Jeffs given you  I think its always good to scenario-plan; but the base assumption still is that we finish.
I dont see any reason why we shouldnt.
But to your point its not completely under our control.
The next question is from Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Thanks and good morning.
Hey Steve.
Hey so since you started to talk about 2016 a little bit Im going to just push the envelope here.
The way Im looking at it anyways if you hit that midpoint around $1.15 to $1.20 you talk about on 2015 EPS it looks like $1.17 youre telling us youve got $0.10 from Synchrony; youve got something like based on the GECC buyback $0.06 to $0.08; youve got Alstom now youre talking about I think $0.06 minimum.
So without assuming any other growth from your Industrial business thats up like more than $0.20 there.
Then GECC Im not sure what you guys are thinking for that but were certainly starting to get into that well north comfortable of $1.50 especially if you could hold Oil &amp; Gas flat.
Is that  am I thinking about this in the right way? Well what I would say certainly the pieces youre putting together Steve kind of hang together right? I would say Oil &amp; Gas is going to be down next year; thats got to be the working assumption.
I think the focus Jeff and I are going to have is to try to offset that with lower Corporate as we think about next year; so we want to run Corporate lower.
And then I would say look were going to give you guys a full estimate on all the other pieces of our Industrial outlook in December.
But look weve got strong services strong services growth big backlogs.
And were going to win some nice orders in the fourth quarter and I just  I feel like were going to look pretty good next year in the world we see today.
So Jeff do you want to add No I just  I think you got it exactly right.
I dont think you can start with the premise of oil and gas flat.
Having said that Alstom is going to contribute EPS accretion is going to contribute no question about it lower corporate.
We expect to be better operationally in the segments and we expect EPS is going to grow double-digits next year for sure.
The next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks good morning.
Just Hi Nigel.
Hi Jeff.
I just wanted to dig into 4Q and obviously the orders primarily a function of the tough prior comp.
The back  the equivalent backlog is pretty flat with where it was in 3Q.
So I am wondering if you could just maybe put a finer point on organic into 4Q.
Youre running at 4% year-to-date.
Im wondering how you view organic into 4Q? Well weve got quite a range here on our expectation for fourth quarter orders.
But generally speaking we expect them the comp much better than what you saw in the third quarter both headline and organically.
So weve got some big orders in transportation some big orders in power and water were looking to deliver in the fourth quarter.
We expect aviation to be slightly better.
So we think sequentially the fourth quarter is going to look much better than the third quarter for sure.
Wait are we talking revenue orders Nigel? Orders Nigel.
Because I think revenue in Q4 is going to look fairly comparable to what its been year-to-date right.
Yes.
Yes.
So weve been running I think were at 4% organic revenue growth year-to-date.
My hunch is thats going to be pretty consistent with Q4.
The next question comes from Shannon OCallaghan with UBS.
Good morning guys.
Hi Shannon.
Hi so nice to see the higher GE Capital dividend for 2015.
With the Wells deal and Synchrony now done real estate ranged is 14% Tier 1 still the right base to be using given that all those things that are now sort of clearly on their way out? And how are the international consumer sales are there any things that would make you still be using 14%? Shannon this is Keith.
Id say thats sort of the framework that weve agreed to with the regulatory oversight that we have so I dont see us changing that until we ultimately arent under that same framework.
Right now as you know we ended the third quarter at 13.7%.
I think with the asset sales in the fourth quarter will go up about 14%.
We expect to dividend $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter based on those asset sales and our governance process.
And then were on track for what we said we do in 2016.
But I wouldnt  I dont see that threshold really changing until you have a different regulatory environment.
Thats why its so important for us to continue to shrink.
Thats why its important for us to target applying to not be a SIFI in the first quarter.
I think thats going to take some time.
And then when we get done it with that we still have our international regulators.
So I think you should assume that thats a threshold for some period of time for us and we need to continue to exit the businesses in a rapid pace and build the capital so that we can distribute it back to the parent.
The next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hey Julian.
Hi thanks just a quick question on healthcare.
The profits ex-currency were up in Q2.
Theyre down mid single-digit Q3.
And you talk about R&amp;D being hiked in the slide; so maybe just given update on the cost progress in Healthcare particularly given the volume outlook in emerging markets and the fact that pricing is still very challenging.
I think youd talked before about Healthcare profits growing this year.
I think theyll clearly be down; but maybe give us some look in terms of the cost base entering next year.
So I would say first just to echo part of your question I think the developed world is better so U.S.
and Europe are getting better.
The emerging markets are mixed for Healthcare but more headwind than tailwind.
What Jeff said in terms of really trying to convert our Healthcare IT business and get it on Predix and spend a little bit of incremental R&amp;D on that side of the business I think its something that we wanted to do this year to give us some momentum going into next year.
And then I think the business has a whole series of variable-cost productivity and product cost-out programs that are going this year that have yet to bear fruit that I would expect to roll into next year.
So I think  look I think the markets are challenging.
We did some one-time investment this year and its our expectation that the team can execute better going into  the rest of 2015 and going into 2016.
All right Id just  Ill give you a little color on the third quarter since you asked it.
Definitely price was a challenge in the quarter.
Were down 1.9 points of price.
So we had the negative $100 million of value gap.
That was definitely a challenge.
But the business has actually got pretty good productivity.
We were well over $100 million in total cost productivity in the quarter.
And really what swung here was volume was a bit lighter than we thought it was going to be largely emerging markets.
And we had about $50 million incremental spend on R&amp;D year-over-year to accelerate the programs we talked about and thats where the challenge came through.
The next question is from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Joe.
Hey so clearly there was an announcement recently that you guys have a new holder to your top 10 list.
I was just wondering how those conversations are going and whether there are any new incremental portfolio or cost opportunities that have come from it.
Look I would say Joe I think the white paper kind of lays out their thesis.
And I think thats  we dont agree with everything but its pretty consistent with what weve done and what were doing.
And so I dont think there would be much to add to that.
I dont know Jeff what would you? We are laser focused on margins and cost productivity as we should be reducing corporate costs.
That all lines up with Trians white paper.
And were about executing on orders and revenues so we can have that leverage fall through to earnings.
Industrial balance sheet pretty consistent with what weve said in the past and things like that Joe.
And that will be paced  the discussion around leverage will be paced by how quickly we get through the de-designation process in GE Capital.
The next question is from Christopher Glynn with Oppenheimer.
Thanks good morning.
Hey Chris.
Hey just further to Julians questions on Healthcare weve seen emerging markets become a much higher volume business over the past few years and developing markets had a lot of regulatory dust settling here.
So just wondering if there are any permanent evolutions or resets in the served markets there where we kind of rethink what levels Healthcare performs at over the next five years? I dont think so.
Obviously China has been a very strong growth market for Healthcare for quite a period of time.
Youve got to remember 74% of orders and roughly revenues come from developed markets still.
Even with all the emerging market growth weve had in Healthcare were still about almost three-quarters from the U.S.
Europe Japan.
So I dont think theres any change in the geographic footprint of where we think Healthcare is going or where the growth is going to come from.
Weve got some particular markets that are challenging based on commodities FX or politics; think about Russia the Middle East.
Places like Iraq are very very tough to comp year-over-year.
We actually feel a little bit better that China is stabilizing a little bit for Healthcare.
The performance this quarter sequentially was better and we think the tendering process is ultimately going to pick back up.
When you think about China the underlying fundamentals havent changed.
There is still 1.5 billion people.
Theyre still building hospitals.
The private market in China has grown 15% to 20% a quarter.
Its the slowdown in the public tender as part of the campaign the governments been running there has put some slowness into what weve seen in terms of order.
But I dont think theres much of a change in footprint here on a go-forward basis and were still three quarters developed market driven.
The next question is from Robert McCarthy with Stifel.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Rob.
Hi how are you doing? Good.
I wanted to ask a question just about if were heading into an industrial recession here  and you may disagree with that premise.
Could you just talk a little bit about the prospect for combating deflation? Because if were in a deflationary environment and we have a kind of a multiyear down-cycle where were kind of looking for a bottom in terms of volumes and cutting price I mean isnt the portfolio actually set up for that just given the installed base of equipment and the service streams you have? Maybe you could just comment on that a little bit.
So Rob again I come back and just  U.S.
a little bit better everyday.
Europe stable to up; and then emerging markets volatile.
Right? So I think thats  revenue passenger miles on aviation still positive.
Demand I would say if you are in the gas and wind business and power more positive than negative right? Oil and gas tough for sure.
U.S.
market in healthcare growing better slower in emerging markets.
In other words the first thing I would say is the picture is a slow growth and volatility picture.
And I think there is still pockets of growth out there pretty universally.
And then I would say look the fact that were big installed base recurring revenue model margin efficient capital efficient I think thats a positive for GE in this cycle.
And then our value gap continues to run positive right.
So the ability of us to kind of source well on the marketplace is a tailwind not a headwind.
I would just add the fact we have a $270 billion backlog is very very important in that kind of environment.
$200 billion of that in the service space right? So from a price perspective thats quite important.
We are all about product and service costs.
So to maintain our profitability and grow it and to be competitive we have got to drive it to the same dollars of deflation that you are suggesting.
So we are laser focused on this.
The product and service cost competitively as just as important as the actual technology were selling.
So we are on top of this.
The next question comes from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Jeff.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Hey just a couple cash and liquidity related questions.
First on the Capital side if stuff is going a little bit richer than you thought why not upside to the $35 billion of Capital return over the program? And then just on the Industrial side if you kind of work through the pieces youre kind of guiding 80% free cash flow conversion on Industrial.
If we start with CFOA and take out GE Capital dividend and account for CapEx its kind of an 80% conversion ratio.
Is there anything going on this year that kind of is conspiring negatively to that number? Should we see higher conversion into next year? Maybe you could just kind a walk us through those dynamics.
Hey Jeff.
This is Keith.
Ill just cover a little bit on the $35 billion.
As we said we do have a little bit of price that were getting price to tangible book so ahead of what our plan was by a bit.
And thats been offset by the fact that were selling faster.
We tried to say that on the page by  a lot of those transactions were estimated to be later in 2016 and into 2017 and by selling them early were forgoing that future income.
On the other hand in total were expecting about 1.1 times price to tangible book.
Were a little ahead.
You can see the U.S.
assets that weve sold mostly so far are selling at 1.4 times price to tangible book.
A little ahead of what we thought 1.3.
And then the rest of the assets we think if weve got them priced right overall will be just a little ahead of 1.1 times for the total $200 billion of sales.
So I think were right on the $35 billion and we feel pretty good about it.
Yes.
Excuse me.
On CFOA for the year we think our cash conversion ratio on CFOA and free cash flow for the year is going to be closer to 84% 85% not 80%.
So we actually think were going to have a decent performance on CFOA.
We talked to you about a goal to get to 95% over the next two to three years we are laser focused on that.
I didnt suggest at any point in time we were going to do that in 2015.
Great.
Jeff a couple quick announcements before you wrap up.
The replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.
Were going to hold our fourth quarter earnings webcast on Friday January 22 and were going to hold our annual Outlook Meeting on Wednesday December 16.
Jeff? So Matt again I think a great execution quarter for the team.
I just want to particularly congratulate all our GE Capital folks for great execution on the plan we laid out on April 10.
And really were thrilled about Synchrony the value the company.
We think this is going to be  the Synchrony transaction is going to be a great transaction for GE investors and for Synchrony investors.
So thanks Matt.
Everybody have a good day.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Ellen and I will be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like turn the program over to your host for todays conference Matt Cribbins Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining our fourth quarter 2015 webcast.
Earlier today we posted the press release presentation and supplemental on our website at www.ge.com/investor.
As always elements of this presentation are forward looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
Those elements can change as the world changes.
Today Im joined by our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; and our CFO Jeff Bornstein.
Now Id like to turn it over to Jeff Immelt.
Thanks Matt.
Let me start with some thoughts on the macro environment and GEs fit in it.
For the last few years Ive talked about a slow growth and volatile economy.
This is still my view.
In the fourth quarter across our own large industrial footprint orders grew are 1% organically and our backlog is at a record of $315 billion up 7% organically.
Our biggest industrial business which is power had organic orders growth of 29% in the quarter.
Ive a difficult time reconciling this with the mood that is in the markets.
Clearly oil pricing is a concern and will have an impact.
But our organic orders growth in the Middle East were up 14% in the quarter.
So our economic activity is ongoing.
I know there is a concern about emerging markets in total but our organic growth was up 7% in the quarter ex-Alstom.
And our business in China grew slightly organically in the year and backlog grew by 11%.
So we are seeing a lot of the economic volatility but there is still enough business out there for GE to hit its goals.
The GE team had a good quarter in a volatile environment total operating EPS was $0.52 up 27% and industrial EPS was $0.47 up 27%.
Orders were up slightly in organic growth as down slightly versus a year ago.
Total industrial margins expanded by 80 basis points and 2015 CFOA grew by 8% to $16.4 billion.
Industrial profit expanded by 3% organically.
We hit or exceeded all of our goals in 2015 organic growth was 3% with 80 basis points of margin expansion leading to 7% organic profit growth.
EPS was $1.31 up 17%.
We achieved this despite having $0.05 of FX headwind.
The verticals hit their plan and capital return $4.3 billion to the parent.
Our cash and free cash flow execution was ahead of plan.
We returned $33 billion to investors including the excellent execution with Synchrony.
We also executed a massive amount of portfolio change in the year.
GE Capital exceeds or ahead of plan with $157 billion of signings to-date.
The impact of Alstom was flat on EPS slightly better than expected.
Alstom had an impact on several segments and Jeff will take you through those results but on balance we like what we see in Alstom.
And last week we announced the disposition of appliances to hire for $5.4 billion.
This will create an attractive gain and allow us to significantly increase our restructuring targets in 2016.
So were committed to our 2016 framework in the face of macroeconomic volatility.
Now for orders.
Orders grew by 3% which was up 1% organically and as I said earlier our backlog is $315 billion up 7% ex-Alstom.
Alstom added $29 billion to our backlog.
Services grew by 5% which was up 3% organically and equipment grew by 2% which was down slightly organically.
Service orders were strong our power gen service orders grew by 13% ex-Alstom and commercial aviation service orders were up 14%.
Healthcare service orders were up 3% and Alstom orders were $2.6 billion.
We had some nice wins with Alstom in China on the hydro business several combined cycle gas turbine power plants with richer GE content.
And the Hinkley Point Nuclear Steam turbine in the United Kingdom.
On the product side of GE we also had some solid highlights.
Two Ill call out power booked 12 HA turbine orders in the quarter and we now have 33 in backlog.
In addition we have another 49 technical selections.
And in healthcare our MR orders grew by 18% in the quarter and our bioprocessing grew by 16% in the quarter.
So great results by those businesses.
Globally orders were generally positive growing 8% in total and 12% in the growth regions.
As I said earlier we had strengthened the Middle East and ASEAN and India and Latin America was also decent.
Including Alstom China was up 15% in orders in the quarter and backlog grew by 16% to $21 billion.
Order pricing was up 0.9% in the quarter and we have good pricing momentum in both aviation and power.
So overall our backlog and orders pricing gives us high visibility as we approach our organic growth targets in 2016.
So lets talk about the execution of the team and what you saw on the segment results.
Overall the team executed in a tough environment in the quarter organic growth was down slightly and for the year organic growth was up 3% with seven of eight segments growing.
Service remains steady up 5% in the year and 4% in the quarter organically.
The oil and gas team Id really like to call out because I think they executed very well in 2015.
But the 7% decline in revenue the organic operating profit grew by 1%.
And this is ahead of what we said last year.
Our team executed on restructuring they improved their value gap and they invested in their core franchise.
And we expect the team to continue to execute in 2016.
Looking at revenue in 2016 let me just give you a few metrics and some things to think about.
We primarily ship from backlog so orders and backlog growth matter.
In 2015 six to seven businesses grew backlog some substantially when we do our analytics around convertible backlog and business performance we see a path to 2% to 4% organic growth for 16 even with a very difficult oil and gas market.
The most robust part of our business is service.
Service backlog grew by 16% in 2015 and we expect another year of 20% plus growth in our digital applications.
Both of these support sustained growth in services.
We had another strong quarter and year-end margins for the year our industrial margins were up 80 basis points at the segment level and 110 basis points overall.
Services were up 40 basis points and equipment was up 20 basis points.
We continue to make good progress on value gap up more than $450 million on the year in cost productivity.
Mix was favorable in the quarter and in addition we have solid momentum for cost out.
Again due to the higher appliances gain we can do a record level of restructuring in 16 to fortify our framework.
Specifically we believe we can execute on an incremental $1.7 billion in the year which should yield incremental benefits.
Last year we discussed new compensation plans that was aligned with investors and delivered results Im convinced that this incentivized our team to deliver superior results in 15 and we have set our 2016 targets to drive our framework.
Our strategy and business model is paying off and we believe we can deliver strong performance in the face of economic volatility.
Now for cash CFOA grew for the year by 8% industrial free cash flow grew by 4% and total free cash flow grew by 14% to $13.5 billion.
Total year core industrial cash flow ex-Alstom was $12.6 billion up 3% and total year free cash flow conversion was 85% in line with our expectations.
GE capital dividends were $4.3 billion for the year and were still on track for $18 billion in dividends to the parent in 2016.
The balance sheet is very strong and the price for appliances was a pleasant surprise.
The business had been improving and there was strong interest in the business and a price of $5.4 billion gives us more than $1.3 billion of incremental cash.
For capital allocation we returned $33 billion in the year including Synchrony and looking at 2016 were still on track to return $26 billion to investors in dividend and buyback.
So before I turn over to Jeff let me reflect a little on the Alstom results.
Weve integrated too much of revenue all of the deal related cost and the impact of the joint ventures all for the first time.
There is inherent complexity as we go through so bear with us but in general I would say the business and our outlook and our execution are on track and were still excited about Alstom.
Thanks Jeff Ill start with the fourth quarter summary.
Revenues were $33.9 billion up 1% in the quarter.
Industrial revenues including corporate were up 3% to $31.3 billion.
You could see on the right side that Industrial segments were down 1% reported and down 1% organic.
Alstom revenue up $2 billion in the quarter was offset by $1.3 billion of foreign exchange and dispositions of $700 million.
Industrial operating plus verticals EPS was $0.52 up 27% and thats driven by industrial up 27% and verticals flat.
The Operating EPS number of $0.31 includes other continuing GE Capital activity including headquarter run-off and other exit related items Ill cover in more details shortly.
$0.26 of continuing EPS includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS $0.64 includes discontinued operations.
The total disc ops impact was a positive $3.7 billion driven by the $3.4 billion gain from Synchrony and earnings from the businesses held in sale.
As Jeff said we generated $16.4 billion of CFOA for the year thats up 8%.
Industrial CFOA was $12.1 billion down 1% but up 3% when you exclude Alstom CFOA and taxes associated with the disposition of signaling.
The GE tax rate was 5% bringing the total year rate to 14%.
The tax rate in the quarter was driven by the appliances transaction moving into 2016 tax benefits associated with integrating our existing service business with Alstoms business in Switzerland higher tax benefits principally on the signaling gain we had in the quarter and legislation making the U.S.
research credit permitted.
The reported GE capital tax rate in the quarter of 39% reflects a tax benefit on a pre-tax loss.
The tax rate for the vertical businesses was a negative 13% reflecting reduced the income at EFS and international tax benefits that will diminish as we complete the GE Capital exit plan.
Going forward as we complete the exit we expect GE Capital vertical tax rate to be approximately 10%.
On the right side of the segment results as I mentioned industrial segment revenues were down 1% reported and down 1% organic with foreign exchange and dispositions offsetting Alstom.
The foreign exchange was $1.3 billion drag on industrial segment revenue and $163 million impact on industrial segment op profit.
The power renewable and energy management businesses were impacted by the Alstom acquisition and Ill walk you through the impact on the next page.
At the December outlook meeting we said we would present industrial results including corporate operating cost.
On that basis industrial op profit for the quarter was down 6% reported but up 3% organically on strong corporate cost performance.
To give you context on the quarter organic revenue was down 1% was a little over $1 billion lower than we expected.
This was driven by power lower by about $350 million on expanded scope and BOP aero and reciprocating engines that did not close in the quarter about $400 million in renewables on low wind turbines which Ill cover more on shortly and $300 million of softness in oil and gas and $100 million of softness in convertible orders in our energy management business.
Most of the $1 billion was timing and we expect it to convert in 2016.
For the full year organic revenue was up 3%.
Whats laid out on this page is the impact of Alstom on the power renewables and energy management businesses.
You can see the reported op profit of the businesses in the first column.
The impact of Alstom in the middle column and the op profit and the Vs excluding Alstom on the right.
Power on a standalone basis would have been down 5% renewables would have been down 54% and energy management would have been up 4%.
The outsize impact of Alstom in energy management business is due to the JV structure of digital energy in the Alstom grid business.
We contributed positive earnings from digital energy to Alstoms business that had negative earnings.
Remember this is a 50-50 JV and we consolidate 100% of the revenue but record only 50% of the earnings.
In the case of energy management the 17% organic V reflects the organic performance for the power conversion and industrial solutions business which is how we will report organic for this segment going forward.
The organic V including digital energy would have been plus 19%.
In the quarter the EPS impact of Alstom was break even.
With a pre-tax loss of $234 million in the segments and an additional $160 million of deal cost and accounting items at corporate offset by a positive tax benefit.
Revenue was $2 billion and order were $2.6 billion.
As we look to 2016 no change to the guidance we gave you of $0.05 of EPS from Alstom.
Next Ill do the earnings walk as weve been doing for the last number of quarters.
So you understand the dynamics clearly and whats going on in the earning.
Starting with the first column on the left and working down industrial operating net income was $4.6 billion and vertical income was $438 million for total industrial plus verticals operating earnings of $5.1 billion.
On the other GE Capital line we incurred $2.1 billion of cost in the quarter.
This was driven by restructuring charges the preferred dividend payment headquarter run off operating expenses and excess interest cost.
We also took an impairments of about $800 million related to the Homer City power plant asset which Ill cover more on the GE Capital page.
As a result total operating earnings were $3 billion.
Including non-operating pension cost continuing earnings were $2.6 billion.
We had a $3.7 billion of income in discontinued operations principally related to the Synchrony gain.
Adjusting for these items net earnings for the quarter were $6.3 billion.
In the center and far right column you can see the associated EPS number and their variance versus prior year.
On the next page industrial other items from the quarter.
We had $0.04 of charges related to industrial restructuring and other items that we take in a corporate.
Charges were $567 million on a pre-tax basis with $160 million of those charges related to the Alstom deal cost and accounting items.
We also had a $1 billion of industrial gains in the quarter which equated to $0.08 of EPS at the transactional tax rates.
The pre-tax signaling gain was $622 million and the appliance breakup fee was $175 million.
Additionally we sold our embedded controls business in energy management and our clarient business in healthcare.
On the bottom of the page you can see the total year restructuring gains profile.
We incurred restructuring charges of $0.12 and had gains of $0.11 for a net charge of a penny for the year.
This was $0.02 better than we communicated in December driven by about a penny of lower restructuring primarily Alstom related and slightly higher gains driven by predominantly tax at the transaction level.
For 2016 we expect gains in restructuring to largely offset for the year however there will be a quarterly variability in the timing.
As Jeff mentioned we signed the appliances transaction which we expect to contribute about $0.20 of gain mid-year this year.
That combined with some smaller transactions should yield gains of about $0.25 in 2016.
We will use this opportunity to continue to invest in improving the industrial margins and cost.
This will benefit us not only in 2016 but will position us well for 2017 and 2018.
Now Ill go through the segments starting with the power business.
With the combination of Alstom into the power segment we have reorganized some of the sub-businesses so Ill take a minute to walk through these changes.
First the thermal business was renamed gas power systems.
This business includes gas turbines and steam and generators for combined cycle applications and additionally we moved the equipment side of our aero turbines business to gas power systems.
Second the power services business includes our PGS business and services related to aero turbines.
The distributed power business now includes just our reciprocating engines and the service businesses for Jenbacher [ph] and Walker Shaw.
Additionally as you know we have a standalone steam business that we acquired from Alstom.
Moving to the financial results orders in the quarter up $9.6 billion including $1 billion of Alstom orders grew 40%.
Excluding Alstom orders were $8.6 billion up 25% with equipment orders up 46% and services up 8%.
Within equipment orders gas power systems was higher by 60% ex-Alstom.
The increase was driven by orders for 55 gas turbines versus 41 last year and expanded scope including BOP for a large Saudi 7 AP order.
In the fourth quarter we took new orders for 12 HA turbines versus two last year.
Five units in the U.S.
four in Pakistan and three in Asia.
Our HA backlog now totals 33 with an additional 49 technical selections for a total of 82 units.
Aero turbine orders were down 14% on 43 units versus 50 last year and distributed power engines were lower by 12% with weakness in Walker Shaw gas compression partly offset by strong orders in the Jenbacher.
Equipment OPI was strong at 6.7% driven by HA turbine demand.
Service orders excluding Alstom grew 8% on higher installations growth in multi-year contracts and strong upgrades.
AGP sold 42 for the quarter versus 26 a year ago bringing a total year orders on AGPs to 119.
Alstom orders as I mentioned totals $1 billion including two steam turbines and 6 HSRGs one in conjunction with GE orders.
Ex-Alstom equipment backlog ended at $8.3 billion up 15% service backlog grew 4% to $53 billion.
In total power backlog ended the year at $62 billion ex-Alstom and $77 billion with Alstom.
Core GE revenues were $6.2 billion down 10% and down 7% organically.
Equipment revenues were down 25% driven by fewer gas turbine shipments foreign exchange and lower balance of plant.
In the quarter the business shipped 28 gas turbines versus 44 a year ago.
Total year shipments were 107 units lower units and lower BOP were driven by no repeat of the large Algerian deal in the fourth quarter of last year.
Service revenues were up 1% driven by power services up 8%.
AGPs with 35 in the quarter versus 24 a year ago bringing total shipments to 104 for the year.
Strength in power service was partly offset by lower distributed power service down 15%.
Alstom revenues in the quarter totaled $917 million with $255 million from equipment and $662 million from services.
GE core operating profit was $1.7 billion down 5%.
The decrease was driven by lower volume and partially offset by positive value gap.
Margins improved 140 basis points in the quarter.
Alstom operating profit was a loss of $80 million reflecting operations deal cost and accounting adjustments.
Given the scale of the Alstom consolidation on our first close things went reasonably well.
The core business came in a little lower on revenue than expected driven by the timing of BOP and aero engine shipments.
However orders were better than expected on strong demand for both H&amp;F products particularly in Saudi and Pakistan.
2016 is a big execution year with the Alstom integration shipping approximately 24 HA turbines and executing on our product cost strategy.
In total we expect to ship 110 gas turbines and 125 AGPs with 60% to 65% of these units shipping in the second half of the year in 2016.
Next Ill cover renewable total renewable orders were $2.5 billion in the quarter up 1%.
Excluding Alstom orders were $2 billion down 18% and down 10% ex-foreign exchange.
We took orders for 827 wind turbines versus 1 251 a year ago in the quarter.
The decline was a result of lower U.S.
orders partly driven by the strength in the fourth quarter of last year related to the PTC extension.
This year the PTC extension includes a multi-year phase out.
Orders were also impacted by the shift from the 1.x product line to the new 2.x and 3.x products that drive fewer units but more megawatts.
Additionally we had three deals delayed to 2016 for a total of 240 turbines or above $550 million of orders.
Orders outside the U.S.
were up 19% ex-FX and down 2% reported with strength in Europe the Middle East and South Asia.
Backlog in the renewables core business ended at $7.1 billion up 27% year-over-year.
Also renewable orders were $469 million in the quarter with a large hydro win of $400 million in China at the Three Gorges project.
Alstom added $5.3 billion of backlog to the renewables business.
Renewables revenue for the fourth quarter totaled $1.9 billion lowered by 16% and down 8% ex-exchange.
The Legacy GE business had revenue of $1.9 billion down 20% reported and down 12% ex-foreign exchange.
Core unit shipments were 847 in the quarter versus 1 081 last year.
This was lower than expected as two deals for 165 turbines pushed into 2016.
Operating profit ex-Alstom was $125 million down 54%.
The decline was attributable to lower volume of 234 units negative mix from the new 2.x product as we come down the cost curve and foreign exchange.
Alstom op profit was a loss of $69 million.
In 2016 we expect to ship about 350 onshore turbines including 250 of Alstom wind units.
As Jeff discussed earlier 2016 organic revenues should be high single-digits to low double-digits depending on the mix of unit shipped.
Core op profit should be flat to up slightly as the business focus on improving the cost curve for the new 2.0 and 3.0 megawatt product launches and delivering $100 million of Alstom cost synergies.
Next on aviation global passenger air travel continues to grow robustly up 6.7% November year-to-date both domestic and international markets are strong particularly in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
Air freight volume grew 2.3% November year-to-date.
Orders in the fourth quarter of $6.8 billion were down 16% commercial engine orders were down 47% as expected.
We booked $1.9 billion of engine orders including $100 million of GE90 $600 million of GenEx orders $400 million of LEAP CFM orders and $500 million of CF6 orders.
Commercial equipment backlog ended the year at $29.5 billion up 11%.
Military equipment orders of $353 million in the quarter were higher by two times on a large Navy F-414 order.
Service orders were higher by 9% with strong commercial spares orders up 10% to $39 million a day and CSAs were up 24% in the quarter.
Military services were down 20%.
Services backlog ended the year at over $116 billion up 15% versus last year.
Revenues of $6.7 billion were up 5% with commercial equipment revenues down 5%.
We shipped 59 GenEx units versus 77 last year driven by schedule.
We have no delinquencies to borrowing.
Military equipment revenue was down 1% and services revenue was up strongly at 18% driven by commercial services up 24%.
Operating profit grew 12% on strengthened services positive value gap and good cost productivity.
Operating margin rates improved basis points.
The Aviation team delivered another solid execution year for the year revenues grew 3% operating profit grew 11% and margins expanded 160 basis points.
Our share on each of our engine platforms is very strong and a LEAP launch remains on track for mid-year.
We expect another solid year from David Joyce and the team at Aviation.
Next is oil and gas.
The segment continues to operate in a very difficult environment and we continue to be focused on being hyper competitive on new opportunities and very aggressive on the cost structure.
For the fourth quarter orders of $3.3 billion were down 35% and down 28% organically.
Equipment orders were down 52% or 44% organically.
All segments had lower orders driven by delays in reduced CapEx spending with the exception of our downstream platform which grew orders 51% reported and up 84% organically.
For the other segments on a reported basis subsea was down 49% TMS was down 78% and surface was down 65%.
Service orders were down 17% and down 13% organically.
On a reported basis TMS was down 24% surface was down 29% subsea was down 35% and M&amp;C was down 8% partly offset by downstream which exclude service orders by 20%.
Not included in orders but included in backlog TMS signed four new long-term service agreements totaling $1.5 billion in the quarter.
Total backlog at the ended the year at above $23 billion which was down 9% versus last year and down 4% ex-exchange.
Revenues in the quarter were down 16% reported and down 6% organic.
Foreign exchange reduced revenues $437 million in the quarter equipment revenues were down 21% reported and 12% organically.
By business surface was down 49% TMS down 18% subsea down 15%.
Organically TMS was down 8% subsea was down 5%.
Service revenues were down 9% and flat organically with M&amp;C down 5% offset by TMS up 22% organically.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 19% and down 7% organic.
Foreign exchange in the quarter was a $93 million headwind.
The business continued to deliver on cost reductions and inflation which partially offset the negative volume and price.
Margin rates were down 70 basis points on an organic basis margins contracted 10 basis points.
The business executed in early and aggressive cost-out program beginning in 2014 delivering $600 million of cost out during 2015.
For the year revenue and op profit were down 5% and up 1% respectively and organic margin rates actually expanded 90 basis points.
For 2016 our best view for revenues and op profit continues to be down 10% to 15% most likely at the bottom end of that range given the outlook for the industry and our view of volume and price.
Our base plan at December outlook call for $400 million of cost out in 2016 to get to the $1 billion run rate over 2015 and 2016.
We are working another $400 million of additional cost out reductions to offset the likely lower volume of price pressure.
We expect the first half to be tougher year-over-year versus the second half and [indiscernible] orders team have executed very well in 2015 and we expect the business will continue to outperform on a relative basis in 2016.
Next up in healthcare orders of $5.2 billion were down 4% but up 1% organically.
Geographically orders in the U.S.
were down 1% Europe was down 8% and up 4% ex-FX and the Middle East region was down 4% and up 5% ex-FX.
China was down 6% reported and down 3% ex-FX.
Tenders in China continue to improve slowly year-over-year tenders were flat after several quarters of contraction.
In terms of business lines healthcare systems orders were down 6% and down 1% excluding exchange.
The U.S.
was down 2% driven by lower molecular imaging and X-Ray on tough comparisons offset partially by strong MR up 33% and ultrasound up 5% on new product upgrades.
Europe was down 8% reported but grew 5% ex-foreign exchange.
Europe was up 5% ex-FX for the year and have seen six consecutive quarters of organic growth.
China orders were down 11% reported and down 9% excluding exchange.
Our current outlook for 2016 is for orders growth in China as government tenders begin to rebound.
Life Sciences continued to performance very well.
In the fourth quarter orders grew 2% up 8% ex-exchange.
Within Life Science bioprocess grew 16% ex-FX was strengthening Korea China and the U.S.
Healthcare revenues were down 3% reported and up 3% ex-FX.
Healthcare systems revenues were lower by 4% reported and up 3% ex-FX and Life Sciences revenues grew 6% excluding exchange.
Operating profit was lower versus the fourth quarter of last year by 4% excluding exchange and lower by 8% reported.
Volume growth and cost productivity were more than offset by price and higher growth investments.
Margin rates contracted 100 basis points in the quarter.
In 2016 we expect John in the healthcare business to improve operationally in terms of earnings and margin rates.
Our outlook is for the Life Science business to continue to grow strongly and profitably and for HCS business to execute the digital transformation and aggressively reduced products and service cost.
In transportation North American carloads were down 6.4% in the quarter driven by a very weak carloads in call down almost 20% and petroleum down 13% intermodal volume was also down 1% in the quarter.
For the year volume was down 2.2% driven by commodities with intermodal higher by 2%.
Lower volume and operational improvements have improved velocity on the rails on average 2.4 miles an hour thats up 10% versus last year.
For our business orders in the quarter were very strong up 66% to 3.2 billion driven by equipment orders up 113%.
We took our largest order ever of 1 000 locos in India and also secure node for 100 Tier 4s in the U.S.
Service orders were down 6% at ex-signaling on lower overhaul volume driven by increased park locos.
Revenues were up 2% reported and up 11% ex-signaling.
Equipment revenues were higher by 17% 27% organically principally driven by locomotives partly offset by services down 8% on lower overhauls.
Op profit was higher in the quarter by 18% ex-signaling and up 8% reported.
Increased loco volume value gap and productivity drove earnings higher.
Margins improved 100 basis points reported and 120 basis points organically.
The transportation team delivered a tremendous year.
Excluding the signaling sale they grew revenues 7% operating profit 16% and improved margins 150 basis points.
They launched and delivered 425 Tier 4 locomotives on time on cost and the performance is significantly exceeded customer expectations.
2016 is going to be a more challenging year with softer demand in the U.S.
and in the commodity markets.
We shipped 985 locos in 2015 and expect to ship about 800 in 2016.
The team is executing an aggressive cost plan to address the lower volume.
We expect the business to be down mid-single digits on op profit in 2016.
On energy management as I mentioned earlier describing results for energy management is complicated by the contribution of our digital energy business to the grid JV.
For financial reporting purposes we report 100% of the grid JVs orders and revenues but only report 50% of their earnings.
Going forward we will report results on this basis but all our organic calculations will include only industrial solutions and the power conversion business.
Orders in the quarter were $2.6 billion up 15% reported of the $2.6 billion $1.1 billion was from the grid business with Alstom contributing $716 million and digital energy business contributing $342 million.
Digital energy orders were down 10% reported and down 8% organically.
Power conversion orders were down 17% and down 11% organically on no repeat of larger renewable orders in the fourth quarter of last year.
For the total year power conversion orders were very strong up 19% organically.
Industrial Solutions orders in the quarter were down 17% report and down 11% organically driven by foreign exchange and dispositions.
North America demand in the quarter was weak across all Industrial Solutions segments.
Backlog for the quarter ended at $11.7 billion.
Reported revenues of $2.4 billion were higher by 20%.
Grid solutions revenue totaled $952 million inclusive of $393 million of digital energy revenue.
Industrial Solutions revenues were down 8% and down 4% organically.
Power conversion was down 6% but up 9% organically.
Reported op profit for the energy management segment was $33 million which includes the effects of establishing the grid JV and Alstoms results.
Before the effects of Alstom as I covered earlier energy management earned $118 million of op profit up 4% driven by the productivity and the gain on sale in our medias business partly offset by lower Industrial Solutions volume.
The contribution of our digital energy business to grid JV combined with the Alstom grid operating results equaled the loss which we recorded at 50% or $5 million.
As we announced last week and Jeff spoke about it earlier we have an agreement to sell our appliance units to Haier which we expect to close mid-year.
Fourth quarter results for both Appliances &amp; Lighting had revenue essentially flat.
Appliance revenue was up slightly from last year and lightings saw a flat revenue and growth organically.
LED growth in the quarter was 28% operating profit for the segment was up 28% with very strong performance in appliances up 51% on strong cost performance and up 4% organically in lighting but down 10% reported driven by foreign exchange.
The appliance team had a strong year essentially doubling profits and expanding margins significantly.
Theyve also done an outstanding job managing the business through this disposition process.
Lastly Ill cover GE Capital.
Our Verticals businesses earned $438 million this quarter thats up 7% from prior year driven by operations and higher tax benefits partially offset by lower gains.
Portfolio quality remains stable and the aviation portfolio finished the quarter with zero delinquencies in only two AOGs.
Working down the page GE Capital corporate generated a $2 billion loss in the quarter principally driven by restructuring and other charges related to the GE Capital transformation.
Preferred dividend payments excess interest costs including the cost associated with the debt exchange we completed in October and headquarters operating cost.
In the current quarter we took an impairment of approximately $800 million on our Homer City coal-fired power plant in the U.S.
related to a decision to exit the investment overtime.
This investment was not strategic to the verticals go forward business and this actually aligns this portfolio more closely to the GE store going forward.
These charges within the framework of the $23 billion charge to effect the GE Capital transformation.
Discontinued operations which now includes the consumer segment generated earnings of $3.7 billion primarily driven by a $3.4 billion gain associated with the Synchrony split off as well as the earnings and gains from discontinued operation.
Overall GE Capital reported $2.1 billion of earnings and we ended the quarter with $167 billion of E&amp;I excluding liquidity.
The verticals ended the quarter with $79 billion in the E&amp;I excluding liquidity.
Our liquidity levels remains very strong at $91 billion.
Our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 14.5% which is up 80 basis points from the third quarter after paying dividends of $3.9 billion during the quarter bringing our total dividends in 2015 to $4.3 billion.
Assets sales remained ahead of plan and we ended the year with $157 billion of signed deals and $104 billion of deals closed.
Overall keeping that GE Capital team have executed ahead of schedule on all aspects versus the plan we share with you back in April.
We expect to be largely complete by the end of 2016 and are on track to file for CP receipt [ph] in the first quarter of this year.
And with that Ill turn it back Jeff.
So let me end by going through our operating framework.
This is the framework I showed in December.
Weve no change but increasing our goals for disposition cash.
I know a lot happened earlier in the year but 2015 closes out where we thought it would.
So lets start with organic growth of 2% to 4%.
We finished 2015 with $315 billion of backlog earlier outlined how we achieved those goals even in the face of a tougher oil and gas market.
Weve broad business and geographic diversity and service which is 80% of our earnings should continue to grow by 3% to 5% in 2016.
We had two months of Alstom in 2015 and so far so good we think our synergies were achievable and with the appliances transaction were now looking at the ability to fund incremental restructuring.
In addition this gives us upside to our disposition cash for the year.
All of our goals for GE Capital remain on track our dispositions are a year ahead of plan capital dividends are the key to returning about $26 billion to you this year and we plan to file for SIFI de-designation later this quarter.
Were acting to get more out of this economy.
Were aggressively managing our cost structure to capitalize on deflation.
We have a very strong balance sheet with substantial cash.
We have the ability to finance our industrial products which is a huge advantage.
Our diversity in both regions and markets allows us to outperform single purpose competitors.
We can move production to the lowest cost regions and capitalize on currency or excess capacity.
Weve all the elements to help ourselves in a tough economy.
Buyback capacity substantial restructuring funding and services growth and weve continued to invest.
Our long-term commitments for R&amp;D globalization investments like Alstom have built a huge backlog.
So just to recap some of our highlights for 16 double-digit EPS growth returning $26 billion of cash Alstom integration digital execution there is really a lot of value here in GE.
So Matt now let me turn it back to you for some questions.
Thanks Jeff.
Operator please open up the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
Good morning.
One of the things thats changed in the last couple of months is just the severe currency devaluations weve seen in some of the emerging markets out there but your order book in EM seems to be pretty good I mean are you pricing can you just give us a sense of kind of current and past are you pricing contracts in U.S.
dollars are you pricing them in local currency or is there a mix just a little color there? Okay maybe Ill do a little bit on the geographic side Scott and then give you a sense.
We had a very strong fourth quarter in the Middle East that was a lot driven by power pricing actually was a pretty good on those transactions for the quarter.
Id say on balance the pricing weve experienced on power rail aviation usually those show in the pricing and the backlog and the order book.
So I dont think weve seen really any diminution of pricing in the emerging market orders.
So you know guys our stuff is lumpy so there is big transactions but I dont -- we dont see anything.
Jeff would you want to add to that? Just a couple of things so what we do in China there has been very little albeit a little bit more lately the differences in exchange between the U.S.
to China are pretty di minimus a lot of our businesses that I gave you are dollar based and then obviously in oil and gas and energy management and a number of other businesses we do work in local currency.
And so Brazil where were in Brazil and Europe in the euro weve had a little bit of a currency impact and thats what you hear us reporting when we give you reported versus organic.
On the orders front I dont think weve seen that big of an impact and when you look at orders in the quarter particularly in power orders price has been very very good very strong particularly on the H turbine largely because were selling out slots.
That makes sense.
And then just moving to oil and gas how was $30 oil impact your 2016 outlook I guess what I mean is that you have I mean 2015 was pretty amazing with the cost out and you havent seen decremental margins at all in that business and is that sustainable and are there break points in oil prices where its just not sustainable any more to maintain that type of drop through? So again what I would say is that just on a macro comment there is still lot of efficiency opportunities we have in our oil and gas business both in the supply chain.
And so I think what Jeff talked about earlier in terms of the ability to do incremental restructuring is still out there and then I would just again segment our business into kind of project based business where were still in execution mode and thats probably 70% or 80% of our total revenues and then businesses like drilling and surface that are probably the most susceptible as oil pricing goes down to $30 were trying to stay ahead on the cost curve is going to be very difficult in the future and we just need to be flexible at a $30 environment the one we see today.
But thats a very small portion of our overall oil and gas business.
I would just add I would just expand a little bit on what Jeff said.
So if you think about the business long-term more contractual and project based stuff.
Turbo machinery downstream and subsea thats about 65% of our revenue in 16 and of those revenues more than 70% of those are in backlog.
If you add the M&amp;C business on top of that which tend to be more flow in convertible.
But its about roughly 50% exposure oil and gas and 50% to non-oil and gas thats 85% of revenue and when you add M&amp;C youve got about little bit north of 65% of next years revenues in backlog.
So to Jeffs point the real short-term exposure today anyways we look at is service and drilling and they are very susceptible to volatility around what they see for convertible demand in any period of time.
But its 15% of the revenue.
Again Jeff I'll come back and -- because of appliances guys we have kind of $2 billion plus of restructuring that wasnt in our plan when we stood in front of you in December.
So I am going to follow on with that.
So the way we think about it within the range of down 10% or 15% everything else being we maybe at the lower end of the range we may be closer to down 15% we came into the year we told you we had plans to take $400 million a cost out on top of the $600 million a cost out we delivered in 15 for a total $1 billion over the two years 15 and 16.
We are now going after an incremental $400 million on top of that.
So now we are trying to deliver $800 million of cost out to 2016 and appliances is an important part of our ability to do that.
So we are going to invest more aggressively in 2016 in restructuring the oil and gas footprint that we even did in 2015.
So that gives us Scott some ability to moderate potentially if revenues are even lower or the lower end of the range then we can moderate the impact on profitability.
Yeah sounds like appliances was timed just right.
So good luck congrats guys.
Ill step off.
Thanks Scott.
The next question is from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hi thank you.
Hey Julian.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick question firstly on Alstom the core business as you say lost money on the EBIT line in Q4 youve talked about $200 million of core Alstom profit in 2016 how quickly do you think the business goes back to profits or is it sort of a second half turn around on the core Alstom business? I think we expect it -- we are often running on the synergies as we speak having said that most of those synergies and most of the improvement in the core operations is going to happen with will accelerate over the course of the year.
I think we feel very good about the guidance we gave you in December around the outlook for Alstom in 2016 of $0.05 contribution that today feels very solid.
Now Id go back to what we said about 2015 on that call we came in almost line item by line item virtually right on top of what we told you were a little better in tax than we estimated.
But the other elements of the cost in the operations we talked about on that call is exactly where we came in and ended up Alstom in the fourth quarter ended up being essentially break even with tax or zero drag on EPS.
So I think right now we are on course and the benefits and the improvement will accelerate as you would expect over the course of the year.
I would echo with what Jeff said Julian.
Look as you guys can see this is a large complicated transaction to get it integrated.
But when we look underlying in terms of customer response and geographic opportunities and things like that I think this is everything we thought it would be.
So now we just got to get out there and execute.
Great thanks.
And then just a quick follow-up on healthcare the profits there were down I think about 9% in the second half of 2015 youre guiding profits up in 2016.
What is it thats really swinging there sort of from the second half to the next 12 months.
Look I think Julian when I think about healthcare in 2016 this should be low to mid-single digit organic revenue grower with margin enhancement thats what investors should expect in healthcare.
I think when you look at the second half of last year we allowed the business to spend incrementally on NPI to make some changes in their IT business to invest more.
So basically I think we allowed them to increase their spending in the second half.
That should be opportunities when we look in the future.
Better VCP better NPIs and I expect healthcare to have a decent 2016.
Were going to deliver a better product cost profile in 2016.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz with Citi.
Good morning guys.
Hey Andrew.
Jeff so can you talk about your ability to grow margin for the company in 16.
If you look at 4Q you had 110 basis points of gross margin improvement ex-Alstom despite the declining organic sales your value gap and mix give you 100 basis points of that improvement.
So given you higher margin services orders are growing faster than equipment and raw material costs are coming down could you sustain the 100 basis points you saw in the quarter from mix and value gap as you move forward? So great question.
Our goal what weve told forces year-on-year we have a target to improve margins 50 basis points thats true as well in 2016.
So the geography of where that improvements comes from I think it will be largely the same I think value gap will contribute a little bit less in 2016 to the margin expansion I think variable cost productivity or productivity general will or product cost if you will will contribute more.
And then corporate and SG&amp;A will also contribute in 2016.
So were still on the 50 basis points march at op profits and down through corporate costs or industrial margins.
But the mix between what value gap contributes and what we get out of productivity was going to change a little bit.
I would also say guys last year was the first year of our IC plan where we call the AIP.
More than the half of the businesses have gross margin targets they all have margin targets.
This has been really a god driver of these results and we think weve set the bar appropriate in 16 to get the same kind of benefits.
And then I would say if you mentioned services growth were equivalent thats important actually there is no question about it.
We need a big service businesses PGS and aviation to grow and deliver with it because we have these product launches.
So weve got the H turbine coming next year we got a little over 100 LEAP engines launching next year and we got the 2.x and 3.x wind turbines going.
So continuing the momentum and services is very very important to the overall story.
Jeff if I could just follow-up on service for a second your organic service orders slowed slightly in the quarter from 4Q versus 3Q but still good at 3% you guys are going at 3% to 5% service growth.
Can you talk about the sustainability of your service business especially in power in the current environment and how much is digital really helping is that seems like robust growth there? Yeah look I mean I would start again with the digital focus which is growing 20% not just in power but in other businesses but we also have very targeted programs in all of our businesses to go after the aged install base Alstom brings unique capabilities to the power business.
Aviation guys were still seeing good revenue passenger miles.
There is lots of opportunities for our aviation business to continue to grow.
Healthcare is actually after several years of flat revenue and services is actually grown 3% or 4% the last few quarters.
So were very programmatic in the service side.
I think we see that continuing into next year with digital being the number one driver.
And at the end of the day I think in an environment like this this is the bolus for the company is the installed base.
The only think Ill add Jeff is the upgrade.
So we think well do at least 125 AGPs next year in every one of the businesses is really pushing on the upgrade.
Thanks guys.
Great thanks.
The next question is from Andrew Obin with Bank of America.
Hi guy.
Good morning.
Hey Andrew.
Good morning.
Just the question on restructuring.
Now that you have this extra $0.20 from the appliances.
I am sure you did have some restructuring built into your number before because you were expecting appliance sale in the middle of the year.
But given that the gain brings restructuring and you have a lot more restructuring this year.
Does that mean that there is more cushion to the numbers or does that mean that the core guidance is actually reflecting more macro headwinds? Okay.
So in our core plan we expected to drill about $1.7 billion pre-tax of restructuring in 2016.
We will double that with appliances.
And so we will do a lot heavier restructuring first of all were going to try to accelerate a lot of what we were going to do in Alstom in 17 and 18 as much of that as we can actually were going to try to accelerate.
Were going to do more as I mentioned earlier in oil and gas and every one of the businesses were going to do more around the product service cost footprint of the company.
So it does both things when we spend that incremental money there will be some amount of benefit in 2016 but maybe even more importantly its a great base to work from for 2017 and 18 and it will help us continue to deliver these margin improvements that you've seen.
I would add Andrew look.
Im going to say the same thing today that I said a year ago.
Every one of our businesses has a very detailed incentive compensation plan that internally just like last year rolls out to more than we talked about externally.
And thats the way weve run the place and thats why we continue to run the place.
And I just -- I look at the ability to do incremental restructuring as a good opportunity for us to continue to deliver good results.
And just the follow-up question are you guys seeing any signs of stabilization in China because that seems to be a big concern I apologize if I missed your remarks in the beginning.
Yeah I think for us that the first thing Id say there is no one China right.
I dont think macro anymore when I talk about China I think micro.
I think about aviation healthcare power mining thats how I think everybody is got to start thinking about China.
Now aviation remains super strong right.
I think on the power side its going to become a gas more predominantly gas turbine market its been cyclical but I like how were positioned in the future in China there.
And the third business is healthcare healthcare has had a tough couple of years I think the sense of our team is that we feel that stabilizing by tough I mean its gone from up 10% to 15% to maybe flat to down slightly right.
So our team I think has seen some signs of stabilization there.
That to me is the swing or lets say on China but aviation is super strong even today.
Thank you very much.
Great thanks.
The next question is from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Hey Joe.
Good morning.
Good morning guys.
And so maybe following up on Andrews question slightly differently I guess as you go into 2016 and then take a look back into 2015.
Industrial EBIT grew very low single-digit this past year and as we head into 2016 there are a lot of headwinds whether its orders down mix is becoming a bigger headwind and then youve clearly oil and gas pressures are intensifying.
And so what Im trying to understand is how much of the incremental improvement in industrial segment EBIT is going to be driven by the restructuring actions that youre taking? Well.
Let me go back and try to help you with that in terms of what 2015 was.
So in the fourth quarter our restructuring efforts delivered a little over $220 million of benefits.
And those are restructuring have started in 14 and some of them were executed in 2015 et cetera.
And for the year that was about $1 billion of value if you will against margins.
In 2016 will roll forward and based on what we did in 15 and the benefits realizing in 2016 and the incremental spend in 2016.
I mean everything else being equal we would expect that more and more to flow to industrial EBIT in 2015.
And yes its part and parcel about remaking the competitiveness of this company around products and service cost and its critically important and our track record I think over the last couple of years of these businesses delivering back to margin improvements based on the restructuring spend I think its been on balance very good.
Yeah no thats fair and it has been good and it clearly should help provide a tailwind for 2017 and 2018.
Maybe one follow-up question Jeff just a reminder on $35 billion in the composition of the $35 billion dividend from the asset sales and leverage and has that changed at all just given the asset prices have come down a little bit at the start of this year? No so key thing is team have done an absolutely remarkable job executing against this plan as you know Jeff mentioned Ill just reiterate a little bit just to give base line everybody $157 billion of signings $104 billion of asset closings in 2015.
In 2016 well sign something on order of magnitude of another $50 billion in deals wed expect more than half of that to happen hopefully here in the first half of the year and well close well get wire transfers for about another $100 billion of closings in 2016.
And so far were tracking slightly better on a price of intangible book what we presented in April of next year and we think everything else being equal as we sit here today with $50 billion of signings to go all which are in process that were going to end up at or maybe incrementally slightly better on the price to tangible book when we get through the end of this process hopefully at the end of 2016.
Okay thanks guys.
Ill get back in the queue.
Great thanks.
The next question is from Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Yes thanks and good morning.
Hey Steve.
Hey.
So you covered a lot of ground but one of the things on page four the simplification of SG&amp;A cost being flat in the fourth quarter just maybe run us through the dynamics there in terms of it coming down off of the prior savings youve been seeing in quarter-after-quarter there? Sure so we had $224 million of SG&amp;A structural cost out in the quarter that was down 7% year-over-year for the year were down about $800 million or about 6%.
And the reason you see it is not contributing to the margin performance is because that $224 million came out at about the same rate as volume came down in the quarter.
So its not that we didnt get cost out we absolutely did its not that we lost any momentum.
$224 million is about the middle of what weve been each of the last four quarters actually probably closer to last eight quarters its just the volume was down and so it didnt contribute.
We expect -- I think we said in December we expect to improve SG&amp;A to sales in 2016 and so you should expect it to show up on that line is contributing to the margin expansion in 2016.
As it did for 30 basis points this year.
Okay sounds good.
And then if I just want to clarify in the pricing again when you point to the 3.8% in power and you talked about the HA turbine driving a lot of that you guys are -- how are you thinking about like-for-like pricing versus mix is that HA is all like-for-like pricing if not driving the mix? Yeah thats all like-for-like.
Okay all right and then just Go ahead I'm sorry.
No go ahead.
I was just going to say I think what the team has done in this HA launch is pretty remarkable so all the growth in the heavy duty gas market is this class of turbine.
The gigawatts get added over the next couple of years 75% of thats going to come from this class of turbine.
Theyve gone from no share to a very high level of share and this is about $300 million of price in the quarter on the H and its effectively were selling slots out.
So its been a terrific story.
Okay Ill pass it on.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Steve.
The next question is from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Hey Jeff.
Good morning how are you? How are you? Great.
Hey just back to kind of the whole restructuring dynamic and kind of understanding the bridge into 2016.
So I think your guide for 16 roughly implies about $19 billion in segment op if we use the December construct.
So just building off $18 billion in 2015 with $1 billion in restructuring savings and Alstom of $600 million is that how we should be thinking about it so you have a kind of core erosion elsewhere in the portfolio of $400 million to $500 million? I dont think so Jeff.
I dont have that reconciliation in front of me.
Well get back to you on that but here is how we thought about the bridge is when we go from 15 to 16 well get incremental restructuring savings as a V we earned $1 billion of restructuring savings in 15 we think well be better there in 16.
But it wont be $1 billion better than it was in 2015.
Well get margin expansion and organic growth of 2% to 4% and the only decrement if you will as you describe it is we are overcoming the launch cost and the launch margins associated with the LEAP and the H the wind turbines et cetera et cetera.
So we will grow our profit next year.
I dont have the bridge exactly in front of me at the moment.
But Segment-by-segment power is up ex-Alstom.
Right.
Renewable is up ex-Alstom aviation up healthcare up transportation I think we said down slightly energy management up.
So segment-by-segment Jeff I think attracts the positive operating profit growth for next year.
Okay.
Roughly $19 billion is a good place to be though on the segment side? Yeah.
Yeah $19 billion -- its roughly 19 billion.
Okay great.
Little better than $19 billion.
Yeah.
And then just back to kind of the macro can you give us a little bit of sense on how much of your backlog is in Middle Eastern areas or kind of areas where youve got really resource pressures on government budgets and the like? I think the -- let me just.
I dont have a regional split on backlog now obviously our power business obviously from power generation perspective has got a big backlog associated with the Middle East our oil and gas business as a backlog thats associated with West Africa Brazil and the Middle East.
We have a big backlog in aviation associated with it.
Emirates Qatar Airlines et cetera.
I dont think in the case of power or aviation that we have concerns about our Middle East backlog in any way...
Yeah I was going to reflect on that to a certain extent I think Jeff weve always talked about the resource rich regions being more or less $30 billion or something like that for the company.
But in the fourth quarter we had a record orders quarter in Saudi Arabia.
Our business in Latin America has -- because again demand for electricity has grown 8% last year good aviation backlogs things like that.
So I think the diversification of the mix of businesses we have is still pretty positive even in regions like Saudi Arabia.
Right.
And then maybe just one last one.
The order price index info was helpful I wonder if you could share what us kind of the price impact on revenues in the quarter? Yeah.
So in revenues in the quarter we had price of about $150 million about $100 million of that came from power aviation was strong as well and then as you would expect healthcare had negative price of roughly $100 million.
Most everybody had modest positive price.
The next question is from Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Deane.
Hey.
Just had a couple of clean up questions here just to go back to the appliances deal weve gotten a lot of questions about this that the deal you struck with higher significantly more favorable than Electrolux gain of $0.20 versus $0.06.
How do the deal all come together I know they are now directly comparable.
But just give us a sense on how it played out? Again Deane I think we were we follow the process for Electrolux until December 7th.
So that kind of ran its course that gave us the ability to kind of look to see what other outcomes would be important for the business.
There was a tremendous -- after December 7th there was a tremendous amount of interest in the business.
I think which we have to keep in mind is that the EBITDA of the business is better over the -- while we were in the process.
The multiples in the industry improved while were in the process.
And I think what we always knew was true about the appliance business is that it had a favorable position in the North American market that was valued by people on the outside and thats what we saw in the 30 days kind of post for December 7th.
I would add Deane we wanted to move quickly because the business have been for sale for two years and its just there was a real reason for us to kind of get this transaction and were pleased with the way it turned out.
Yeah congratulations on that.
And just a last question from me I know youre out of the quarterly guidance business but given the expectations of the higher restructuring and they wont be time with gains.
What is the first quarter dynamics look like with regard to gains in restructuring? So today we think were going to have about $700 million of restructuring in the first quarter.
Well have some very modest gains in the first quarter.
So well have naked restructuring in the quarter of between $600 million and $700 million pre-tax in the quarter.
And do you want me to give full first quarter.
So here is when Id say is when you look at the profile for the year when we talked about gas turbines and power systems.
I mentioned the back that a lot of our volumes was in the second half of the year.
The first quarter in power business were going to be down significantly on gas turbines.
Last year we had the tail-end of Algeria and we have some Egyptian shipments in first quarter.
So even though were going to be up on shipments year-over-year for the total year for power systems the first quarter is going to be light on gas turbines year-over-year.
The next question is from Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
Hey Shannon.
Good morning.
Hey Jeff maybe a little more on the core margin expansion in the power business the 140 basis points I mean youve talked about positive value gap and mix.
What -- maybe a little more color there whats really driving that? Yeah a big part of it is the strength in their service businesses TGS was very strong in the quarter that was important.
We also shipped fewer gas turbines year-over-year in the quarter from a mix perspective that certainly helped them expand margins in the quarter the 140 basis points.
So the value gap was really strong.
I mean just some context here guys.
Our organic growth for the total company in the fourth quarter of 14 was up 9% organic growth for power was up 20% or something in the fourth quarter of last year.
And that was a lot of the Algerian shipments that we had that were product shipments in 14.
So kind of to Jeffs point we had lets say much more difficult comps from a revenue standpoint but much easier comps from a margin standpoint when you compare fourth quarter of 15 to fourth quarter of 14.
Okay.
Yeah that makes a lot of sense.
And then just on corporate cost I mean got some benefits there in the quarter I know its an initiative youre working on.
I mean are we kind of at a reasonable run rate now or is there a lot more to go there in 16? No were going to be down in 16.
So we finished the year with $2.1 billion of corporate operating cost.
We gave you a range of $2.0 billion to $2.2 billion.
Were running the place to the bottom of that range.
And no were not close to the end of what were doing around corporate.
The next question is from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Nigel.
Thanks good morning guys.
Again a little delay [ph] here so Ill keep this brief.
So just on back on the restructuring obviously a huge number for this year Jeff.
Should we -- youve got $0.08 in the next year 2017 for Alstom restructuring.
Should we assume that the bulk of that $0.08 comes into this year?<br> We I dont think it will be the bulk of it.
Were going to try and move as much of the restructuring into 16 as we can.
All of that restructuring you dont just write a check and then get the benefits its actually all kinds of execution around it.
So were going to try to execute as much of the restructuring list actions if you will that were planned there is a 17 actions were going to try to do as many of those in 16 on top of what we already planned as possible.
Okay thats helpful.
Ill add Nigel with this about of restructuring this year; were going to get some benefits yet this year.
The book when were going to come in 17 but well still get some restructuring actual benefits in 16 just based on the quality of projects weve got.
Okay thats helpful.
And then just quickly on the -- you gave a little bit color on 1Q and obviously 4Q is noisy with some of the project delays and Alstom accountings I am just thinking on 1Q do you still see the scope for some backlog push out into the back half of the year and to what extent that we still have some of these accounting issues on Alstom in 1Q? We are going to continue -- we are not done purchase accounting.
So we from an accounting perspective weve own the company for two months.
So weve done a significant amount of work getting the initial purchase accounting done but we are not complete yet.
And that really Im hopeful that will be done with all of that in the first half of this year.
And I think in terms of how our volumes lays out I mean were a little more back end loaded this year maybe than we were last year just away the order book wants to play out.
But I would say to a certain extent guys things like just the change in PTC probably pushed some wind turbines from 15 to 16 thats unforecastable but its generally a positive.
So again I think by and large we feel pretty good about how our backlog lays out and the integrity of the backlog.
Again we are not [indiscernible] about the oil and gas market and kind of -- we need to be fast on our feet as it pertains to how that business rolls out the rest of the year.
Great thank you Jeff.
Couple of quick announcements before we wrap up.
The replay of todays webcast will be available this afternoon on our investor website.
We are going to host healthcare investor meeting in New York City on March 11th and our first quarter 2016 earnings webcast will be on April 22nd.
Jeff? Yeah Matt thanks.
Again thanks again guys I think it was given the first time we closed Alstom.
This was more complicated than we like again that will get better as time goes on.
So it took us a long time to work through it.
But I think if you stand back and look at 16 weve got a lot of self help in place with restructuring big backlog our share repurchase and we feel good about double-digit earnings growth about returning a lot of cash back to investors and about really continuing to drive our strategy into the future.
So we feel great about the company and we look forward to having more conversations.
Great Matt thanks.
This concludes your conference call.
Thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.