Good morning.
My name is Brooke and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference will be recorded.
Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Sid Jones Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Jones you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts first quarter conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for 2013.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Now earlier this morning we released our first quarter 2013 results.
And hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
For those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter of $3 199 000 000 which was up 0.6%.
Net income was $144.4 million which was down 1% and earnings per share were $0.93 this year which is even with the $0.93 reported for the first quarter last year.
As we covered in our year-end conference call we felt that the first quarter of this year would be our most challenging largely due to the fact that Q1 of 2012 was our strongest of the year when sales were up 7% and earnings per share were up 16% and then partly due to the slowing revenue trend that we saw develop over the second half of last year.
Additionally we have 1 less sales day in Q1 of this year which equates to about 1.6% of revenue growth.
And it's interesting to look at our average daily sales performance over the quarter.
We got off to a decent start with January and February average daily sales being up mid single digit but then the March average daily sales was relatively flat consistent with the moderation in overall retail sales and we ended the quarter with an average daily sales increase of just over 2%.
And looking at the sales results by segment our strongest performance came from Automotive at plus 3.4%.
And Paul will cover this in more detail in a moment.
Industrial Electrical and Office Products each had modest sales decreases in the quarter with Industrial ending the quarter down 2% Office Products down 1% and Electrical down 5%.
And we'll make a few comments about the non-Automotive businesses starting with Industrial.
The first quarter of 2012 was Motion Industries' strongest quarter of the year by far when they were up 12% so they were going up against a challenging comparison.
However the 2% decrease in the quarter this year continues a deceleration in our Industrial growth rates that we saw develop over the second half of last year.
Among our top 10 customer segments 6 had increases in the quarter with automotive pulp and paper and lumber and wood products showing the strongest results.
But then 4 of our top 10 customer segments were down in the quarter with equipment and machinery showing the biggest decline followed by coal aggregate and cement.
Among our top 10 product categories 4 are showing year-to-date increases 1 is even and 5 are running behind through the first quarter.
So from both a customer and a product standpoint we're seeing some inconsistency and choppiness in our results somewhat indicative of the uncertainty and cautiousness that we see among a number of our customers.
With that said however we remain encouraged by the current levels of both industrial production and capacity utilization indices.
Despite the modest drop in March these have remained relatively constant over the past several months and they have proven to be a fairly reliable 6 to 9 month leading demand indicator for us.
And our expectation is for a gradual improvement in demand for our Industrial business over the remainder of the year.
Moving on to EIS our Electrical/Electronic company they had a challenging quarter with sales down 5%.
The electronic side of the business actually had a very good first quarter with sales up low double digits.
Unfortunately this is the smallest segment of EIS' business and their solid results were pulled down by a mid single-digit decrease in electrical and a double-digit decrease in the wire and cable segment.
The biggest factor in the electrical segment was a drop-off in demand in the alternative energy sector.
And the biggest factor contributing to the wire and cable decrease was a slowdown in the defense contractor business which we attribute to the near-term impact of sequestration.
However we do see some early signs of improvement in this side of the business.
And this combined with our internal growth initiatives still give us an expectation of positive growth for the full year from the Electrical/Electronic segment.
And finally a few comments about Office Products.
After the 3% sales increase in the fourth quarter of 2012 we were a bit encouraged.
And we saw low single-digit average daily sales increases in January and February.
However we experienced a drop-off in March and we ended the quarter down 1%.
Our independent resellers business was down modestly and our Mega or national account business was flat.
From a product perspective technology and core office supplies had small decreases in the quarter.
Furniture was flat and cleaning and breakroom grew nicely.
So from an overall perspective the office products industry remains quite challenging and we don't anticipate any material change in the near term.
However at this point we continue to expect that our Office Products team will deliver a modest sales increase for the full year.
So that's a brief overview of our Industrial Electrical and Office Products businesses.
And at this point I will ask Paul to give you an update on the Automotive operations.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
I'd like to add my welcome to each of you this morning.
I'm pleased to join Carol and Tom and have the opportunity to provide an update on the first quarter performance of our North American Automotive business.
Automotive continues to be the company's largest business segment and we ended the first quarter with a 3% increase with 1 less day in the month.
On a per day basis it puts us up approximately 5%.
Given that the first quarter of 2012 was our strongest sales quarter of the year then you add in the fact that the Easter holiday fell in the month of March this year we were not surprised by our results.
The 3% revenue growth in the first quarter includes flat comp store sales and continued positive sales contribution from our acquisition of Quaker City Motor Parts.
Sales to our commercial accounts the dominant segment of our business continued to outpace our retail sales.
Once again in the first quarter our results varied by region of the country with the traditional cold-weather regions lagging the other regions in the U.S.
These cold-weather regions did narrow the gap in the first quarter and they continue to gain positive momentum as we move through the second quarter.
We are approaching our 1-year anniversary of the acquisition of Quaker City Motor Parts.
Their first quarter sales contributions were in line with our expectations.
And we continue to be excited with the growth opportunities the Quaker City team will provide to us in the future.
As we mentioned earlier our commercial business continued to outperform our retail business in the first quarter.
Within our company-owned store group the commercial side of our business ended the quarter up 1% consistent with our growth in this segment in the previous 3 quarters.
Non-fleet-related business performed reasonably well generating a 3% increase.
It was led by solid growth from our 14 000-plus NAPA AutoCare centers and our major account business.
The fleet business was off slightly continuing a trend we have seen in recent quarters.
Both our average ticket value and our average number of tickets were relatively flat in this segment of our business for the quarter.
Turning to our retail business.
The sales environment continues to be challenging.
We were down mid single digit in the quarter which was comparable to our fourth quarter numbers.
Our average retail dollar invoice was up slightly for the quarter while our average number of invoices was down which again is consistent with prior quarters.
And while we're certainly not pleased with these results we believe they are consistent with retail sales trends both in the aftermarket and retail in general.
Our team has a number of initiatives in the works to address our retail sales and reverse the downward trend we've seen in recent quarters.
So as we look ahead to the balance of 2013 we expect to see increased demand in the aftermarket.
We are pleased to note that the consistent -- that consistent with the positive momentum in the northern half of the U.S.
we are also seeing a pickup in sales with some of our winter-related product categories such as batteries rotating electrical and our wiper business.
And while our brake business continues to be under pressure we are encouraged with the improved trends we are seeing -- we're beginning to see in this product category as well.
We have said throughout this recent trend of sluggish sales which dates back to the second quarter of last year that the lack of winter weather in 2012 would remain a headwind throughout the first quarter.
This proved to be the case.
We also said that we continue to believe the fundamentals of the aftermarket to be positive and this has not changed.
But first let's take a look at fuel prices a key driver for our business.
While prices reached a record record average highs in February prices came down considerably in the month of March.
In the quarter the average price for a gallon of gasoline came in slightly below first quarter of 2012.
Next the aging vehicle population now reported to be 11.1 years old continued growth in the number of older vehicles.
And the outlook for miles driven which saw a 0.5% increase in January after a very challenging December bodes well for all of us in the aftermarket.
And we continue to feel that NAPA is very well positioned to capture its share of this increase in demand generated by these positive trends.
So in summary we believe the North American automotive aftermarket provides us ample growth opportunities for 2013.
We remain positive about the core fundamentals of our industry and our NAPA team remains focused on driving positive growth in the final 3 quarters of the year.
So that completes our overview of the Automotive business in the first quarter.
And at this time I'll hand it over to Carol to get us started with our review of the financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul.
We'll start this morning with a review of the first quarter income statement and the segment information and then we'll review some balance sheet items and other financial items.
Tom will come back up to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
As we review the income statement as Tom mentioned total sales were $3.2 billion for the first quarter an increase of 0.6% from last year.
The sales environment remained challenging for us throughout the quarter.
And that said we remain confident in our growth initiatives and expect to see improving market conditions as the year progresses which will support stronger sales for us over the balance of the year.
Gross profit for the first quarter was 28.8% of sales down slightly from the first quarter last year and primarily attributable to the competitive sales environment across all of our businesses.
In addition we're not seeing much of an impact from inflation.
Cumulative pricing for the first quarter of 2013 was down 0.4% for Automotive up 0.5% for Industrial up 0.4% for Office Products and up 1.2% for Electrical.
We recognize the need to improve our gross margins over the balance of the year and we're committed to this effort.
Our ongoing initiatives to effectively manage supply chain costs increase distribution efficiencies and maximize our pricing potential offer us opportunities to make the progress that we need to see here.
This is a high priority for our management team across all of our businesses.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Total expenses were $700 million in the first quarter up 1% from 2002 (sic) [2012] and 21.9% of sales.
Our operating expenses as a percentage of sales are up about 15 basis points from the first quarter last year as we lost some leverage on our expenses for the quarter.
However we continue to control our costs through several measures including ongoing investments in technology which has positively impacted the operating efficiencies in our distribution centers and stores as well as supply chain initiative in areas such as freight and logistics.
Overall our businesses are managing their expenses very well and we're in a position to show improvement in this area over the balance of the year.
Now we will review the results by segment.
Automotive revenue was $1.54 billion and represents 48% of sales.
It's up 3.4% as Paul mentioned.
Operating profit of $121 million is up 5.7%.
So their margin grew 10 basis points to 7.7% from 7.6%.
We feel good about this increase on a 3% sales growth.
The Industrial Group had revenue of $1.1 billion and this is 35% of our total sales and a decrease of 1.7%.
Operating profit of $78.9 million is down 6.4%.
So we saw this group's margin decrease to 7.2% from 7.5% for the quarter.
This is primarily related to the decrease in sales.
Office Products had revenues of $420.1 million which is 13% of our total sales and down 1.4%.
Operating profit of $33.2 million is down 11.5% and their margin deteriorated to 7.9% from 8.8%.
The Electrical Group had revenue of $139.2 million and that's 4% of our total sales and down 5.4%.
Operating profit of $10.5 million is down 12.7% so some margin degradation to 7.5% from 8.1% for the Electrical Group primarily due to the sales decrease.
So our total operating profit was down 2% in the first quarter and our operating profit margin declined by 20 basis points to 7.6%.
This follows solid margin improvement in each of the last 3 years.
And again the decrease in the quarter directly correlates to the slower rate of sales growth.
The stronger sales that we expect to see over the balance of the year will support the expansion of our operating margins.
We had net interest expense of $3.4 million in the first quarter which is down from 2002 (sic) [2012] due mainly to the interest income earned on the increase in cash for the period.
Much of this cash was used for the Exego acquisition that we completed earlier this month.
And after combining our debt with Exego we expect net interest expense of approximately $30 million for 2013.
Total amortization expense was approximately $3.8 million for the first quarter which is consistent with the fourth quarter of 2012 but up from last year due to the Quaker City acquisition.
Likewise our amortization costs will also increase beginning in the second quarter due to the Exego acquisition.
The other line which represents corporate expense was $14.3 million expense for the quarter and that's up from the $13.4 million in the first quarter of last year.
We currently project our corporate expense to remain relatively in line with 2012 over the balance of 2013.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35% which has improved from the 35.9% last year.
We expect our full year tax rate for 2013 to remain at approximately 35% due to the favorable impact of the lower Australian tax rate.
Net income for the quarter was $144.4 million down 1%.
And EPS of $0.93 was flat with the first quarter of 2012.
Now I'll discuss a few key balance sheet items.
Our cash at March 31 was strong at $842 million which is up significantly from last year.
About half of our March 31 cash balance relates to the incremental borrowings necessary to cover the April 1 acquisition of Exego.
Without these funds our cash on hand was relatively consistent with both March and December of last year and we would expect to return to these more normal levels of cash in the quarters ahead.
Accounts receivable of $1.6 billion at March 31 increased 1% from the same period in 2012 on a 0.6% sales increase for the quarter.
Our goal is to grow receivables at a rate less than the revenue growth so we're relatively pleased with this level of receivables.
We will remain focused on this area throughout the year and we're very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at March 31 was $2.6 billion.
That's down approximately $42 million or 2% from 12/31 and it's up approximately 5% compared to March 31.
The increase from last March relates to the impact of our acquisitions in 2012 and our inventory was basically flat when you break that out.
Our team is doing a very good job of managing our inventory levels and we remained focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we moved into 2013.
Our accounts payable balance at March 31 was $1.8 billion.
That's up 15% from March 31 of last year.
The significant increase in trade payables again this year reflects the ongoing and positive impact of our extended payment terms and other payable initiatives negotiated with our vendors.
We're very encouraged with the improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital and days payable.
Working capital of $2.3 billion at March 31 is down approximately 12% from March 2012 as reported and is down 3% on a comparative basis after adding back the current debt.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a very high priority for our company.
And our ongoing efforts with these key accounts have resulted in tremendous improvement in our working capital position and cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at March 31.
Our debt at March 31 2013 includes the $500 million in term debt which we've carried for some time now as well as another $415 million in borrowings under our new multicurrency syndicated credit facility.
As stated earlier the new borrowings relate to the cash transfer this month for the closing of Exego and that brings our total debt to approximately $915 million at the end of the quarter.
This translates in total debt to total capitalization of 23% at the end of the quarter which is up from 15% at March 31 last year.
Looking ahead we expect our debt to increase by approximately $200 million in the second quarter upon the consolidation with Exego.
This will bring our total debt to approximately $1.1 billion and our total debt to capitalization to around 25%.
We would add that although we're comfortable with this level of debt in the near term we will likely use our strong cash flows to reduce our incremental borrowings over time although we have no exact timetable to do this.
In the first quarter of 2013 our cash from operations reached over $116 million.
And for the full year we currently project cash from operations to reach approximately $800 million to $850 million.
We expect free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends to be in the $400 million to the $425 million range.
The continued strength of our cash flows is encouraging and we remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority is the dividend which we have paid every year since going public in 1948 and we've now raised for 57 consecutive years a record that continues to distinguish Genuine Parts from other companies.
Our annual dividend of $2.15 per share for 2013 represents a 9% increase from the $1.98 per share paid in 2012.
And it's approximately 52% of our 2002 -- 2012 earnings per share which is well within our goal of a 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in CapEx was $13 million for the first quarter down from $17 million in 2012.
For the full year we expect our CapEx to be in the range of $140 million to $160 million which is an increase from the prior year amount of $102 million.
Much of this increase relates to the planned expenditures for Exego over the balance of the year although we did have an increase in our ongoing operations as well.
We would add that the vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization was $26 million for the quarter which is consistent with the fourth quarter but up from the first quarter last year primarily due to the amortization cost.
We anticipate depreciation and amortization to be approximately $145 million to $155 million for the full year which also includes the addition of Exego.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of our cash and are integral to the growth plans for the company.
We're excited about the growth opportunities we see at Exego and we will remain active in seeking new acquisitions for our businesses over the remainder of 2013.
Generally we would expect to target those bolt-on types of strategic acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally we have been active in the company's share repurchase program since 1994.
And although we bought minimal shares in the first quarter we did purchase 1.4 million shares in 2012 and we have another 12 million shares authorized and available for repurchase today.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but would expect to be active in the program over the balance of 2013.
We continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
In closing we want to thank all of our GPC associates for their hard work and dedication to their jobs and the success of Genuine Parts Company.
The first quarter presented its challenges but the GPC team worked harder than ever.
We're confident the hard work will pay off.
The company is well positioned to generate stronger sales and earnings growth over the balance of the year.
And as always we will support our growth with strong cash flow and a healthy balance sheet further maximizing our return to shareholders.
That concludes our financial review today and I'll now turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Carol and Paul for your updates.
So that's a recap of our first quarter performance.
As mentioned earlier going back to the beginning of the year we felt that the first quarter was going to be a challenge for us and that certainly proved to be the case.
However with that said we continue to feel good about our prospects over the remainder of the year.
And in fact would like to reaffirm the guidance that was provided in our March 11 call.
And our expectation for the full year is revenue increase in the 10% to 12% range and earnings per share to be in the $4.45 to $4.60 range.
As a reminder these figures include the recent completion of our Exego acquisition.
And achieving these results would be a solid performance from the GPC team in our opinion and we look forward to updating these figures as the year progresses.
At this point I would like to address your questions and will turn the call back over to Brooke.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from John Murphy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious can we look at the CapEx for the first quarter? It was relatively low versus the run rate you were looking at for the full -- your full year.
And $140 million to $160 million might be a little bit higher than we were modeling.
And I'm just curious is that a step up that could step down in the coming years? I'm just trying to understand where that might be in out years.
Well we do.
With our business we do look at stepping that number down if we need to.
And we were going to have an increase even without Exego this year because we do have several technology projects that are helping our distribution centers and our stores be more productive.
So originally we had stepped that number up from about $100 million to $115 million to $130 million.
And then with Exego we stepped it up just a little bit more.
So that's probably a pretty good run rate.
But again we can adjust that number as need be.
But we will continue to reinvest in our businesses with technologies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question.
I mean it looks like auto is doing -- is performing pretty well.
But if we look at the other 3 segments -- I know we're looking at some tough comps.
But as we progress through the year you clearly have some sort of comfort and confidence that things are going to improve.
I'm just curious if there's anything you're seeing in the market right now or what you saw in January and February that made March an aberration makes you comfortable sticking with your current guidance of some small improvement through the course of the year? John we do in fact see some improvement.
It's early in April yet but the mid-month figures are more in line on a per day basis with what we saw in January and February.
And as I said it is early but we're hoping that what we saw in March truly was an aberration.
And with that said also each of our management teams has got some very specific and focused initiatives to try to continue to drive revenue improvements.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly as we look at pricing and your ability to pass through price increases and pricing sort of in the end market.
I'm just wondering if you could comment on that in the first quarter and what you're expecting through the remainder of the year? We saw as Carol mentioned we saw some deflation in the Automotive side of the business in the first quarter.
We saw a very modest inflation in both Office Products and in Industrial.
And we saw just over 1% in the Electrical side.
As far as our ability to pass them on you may recall that in Automotive when we get a price increase we implement a price increase.
In the case of Industrial we do have some contractual arrangements so where we have a pricing window is where we can implement those price increases.
But I think as a general statement it would be fair to say that we're comfortable with the fact that we can pass any price increase along as long as we adhere to those pricing windows that are contractually negotiated.
As far as the remainder of the year our outlook right now would be for very modest price increases over the remainder of the year.
We don't see any indication at this point that there's going to be a significant push for price increases from our vendor community across each of the businesses.
And certainly we're not going to take one if we don't feel we can maintain our competitive positioning in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then truly just the last question.
Carol I mean as we look at the balance sheet I mean 25% debt to cap as you indicated you'd be once Exego is fully closed and consolidated really does not appear that aggressive at all and still fairly conservative.
But it sounds like you still kind of want to step back on that debt to cap number over time.
I mean is your philosophy going to be as the CFO and Tom obviously as the CEO you're weighing in on this too is of course -- but that you could potentially run with a little bit more debt than you have historically? Or do you want to get back to sort of that mid-teens debt to cap number? Is that sort of your target? I'm just trying to understand sort of your thought process on the debt that you're taking on here.
Well John I'll take the first stab at that and then Carol can help me out.
And I would say that -- keep in mind that at one point we were in the low-to-mid 30s with debt to total cap.
And while we are not uncomfortable at that level we found that it made more sense for us to pay that down and to use the cash to remove that debt.
As we go forward we'll pay the debt down unless we find a higher and better use of the money for shareholder value creation.
So we're not adverse to carrying more debt than we have the last few years.
But at the same time we think it has to make good long-term sense for the shareholders of Genuine Parts Company.
And I guess we're going to continue -- as we continue to support our priorities for cash as we talked about our cash flows have been just really strong lately and we still see some improvement there.
So if we can continue to support our dividends share repurchases strategic bolt-on acquisitions and our CapEx and then still be able to work on paying down that debt then that's what we plan to do.
Your next question comes from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Focus on the auto side of the house.
Can you just clarify how you think about x the day shift what the trend looked in January February and March? You mentioned that April is better.
Do you think with the northern regions and some of the cold-weather categories I mean do think that could simply be an anniversary of easier compares? Or do you think that some of the fundamentals are improving as well? Chris I'll take a shot at it.
This is Paul.
The -- and I'll start with your last question first.
When you talk about the -- our northern divisions which for us is comprised pretty much of the Eastern the Central and the Midwestern we have seen improvement in the first quarter of about 300 basis points from where they were tracking in Q3 and Q4.
So we are pleased to see some progress with those groups.
And we're seeing it even hold as we go into April as well.
So we're feeling better about that group.
And then you asked Chris about the average daily sales or 1 less day.
Certainly that had an impact in the first quarter as did how the Easter holiday fell coming into March this year versus April of a year ago.
And as we look forward Chris we -- certainly it's early yet in April but we are seeing a bit of a lift.
We're hoping for a bit of normalization of weather at some point which we all talk a good bit about.
But certainly hoping for a bit of normalization on the weather side.
And the comps do get easier no doubt.
But there's an awful lot of -- still an awful lot of deferred maintenance that's sitting out there that at some point has to come into the market.
Research Division</strong> And so when you say it's better in April that's average daily sales right? Because you would have had an Easter shift being I guess a positive in April? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so if the northern areas or the cold-weather regions improve 300 basis points sequentially in the quarter given that the comps stayed flat does that suggest that the other areas of the country actually slowed down? No.
No.
It doesn't.
I think what Paul is talking about is the delta between the northern operations and the rest of the operations.
So the northern operations are still trailing the performance of the remaining operations.
But the degree of change has narrowed in the first quarter.
if that helps explain that.
Research Division</strong> I think it did.
I guess if -- sort if the north improves sequentially on a relative basis but the comp -- but if the comps remain flat doesn't -- I guess doesn't that mean that the -- the total remained flat doesn't it mean that the other areas had to actually slow down? Well they haven't.
But what's happened is if we go back to the third and fourth quarters of last year the relative difference between the northern operations and the southern operations and the remaining operations the difference in performance would have been 500 to 600 basis points.
In the first quarter the difference in performance was closer to 300 basis points.
I guess the point we're trying to make is that we see the northern operations narrowing the gap with the remaining operations.
And if that continues we would think that that will continue to enhance the overall performance of the Automotive operations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so is there any way to think about how much maybe the spring pull forward? I mean I would assume on the DIY side of the business that the pull forward last year because of the weather how much that impacted comps maybe to the positive in 1Q last year and to the detriment in the second quarter? No that's a hard number to get to and we wouldn't hazard a guess on that.
We do know it was a positive influence in the first quarter results last year.
And we saw evidence of that as we get into the second quarter.
And perhaps that's a possible contributor to the fact that we're seeing the comps improve in April back to more what they were in January and February.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one just on that sort of sequential improvement.
Is that on the DIY side of the business as well? Improving but the DIY is still the weakest part of our business.
Your next question comes from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question and I just want to understand I guess the sales growth in Automotive slowed for my belief 4.9% to 3.4%.
That's in the context of a same-store sales growth that were at the same level and presumably the acquisition contribution from Q4 to Q1 was pretty consistent.
Is that 1.4 percentage point slowdown related to the calendar? Or are there any other moving pieces to understand? Matt I'd think it would be more related to the fact that we were short the day in the...
Research Division</strong> So the 1 day loss? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then I do want to address the question that Chris asked again because I'm having a hard time understanding it.
Presumably if the gap between 2 segments of your business starts to narrow and the aggregate trend is unchanged then presumably one got better and the other softened up a bit.
So is there another way to get to that outcome? Well I'll tell you rather than get hung up on it here we could -- I'm going to have Sid do some work on it.
And he can follow up directly with you or you can follow up -- and anybody on the call can follow up with Sid and we'll try to give you a clearer understanding of it.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then one other question please.
So you indicated that -- it sounds like there was this soft patch in March.
And I think you were talking about the Industrial business in particular but perhaps you saw it elsewhere as well.
And I'm wondering if you think about -- and you gave us great segment information for the quarter overall.
What are the parts of the economy or the kinds of customers that you saw participate in that slowdown towards the end of the quarter and to the extent that April looks a lot more like January and February.
Is it those same segments that recovered? Just interested in some of the moving pieces that are driving that movement.
Matt I can't parse it in such a way that I can tell you specifically which customer segments in the month of March.
I can tell you for the quarter that we saw comparative weakness in what we call equipment and machinery which is a big category for us.
And they would be largely OEM-type manufacturers.
And then we continued to see some softness in the mining and aggregate and coal segments.
And that was offset some by strength in automotive and we were encouraged by the fact that lumber and wood products continued to show some improving trends I guess following what we're all reading about the housing sector.
And then pulp and paper held up well for us in the quarter.
So -- but I can't address March specifically.
Your next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is on Automotive in the commercial space.
Your more retail-focused competitors continue to talk about moving in that space now we've seen this for some time.
Can you give us kind of a strategic landscape where you think you are right now in terms of share versus the others and what it's going to look like several years from now? I'll take the first stab at that Keith and maybe Paul can help out.
I would suggest that based upon the results we've seen with our 2 primary commercial initiatives which would be NAPA AutoCare and major account and the fact that we continue to grow those businesses and those businesses experienced I think pretty good growth for us in the quarter.
And I think based upon what we can gather anecdotally our growth in the commercial side of the business might have exceeded the growth of the overall commercial market through the quarter.
I think it would suggest to us that at a minimum we've held our own share and perhaps we even gained some.
And that's a continuation of a trend that we've seen for several years now.
Sometimes we get asked who's the share gainer who's the share donor? And we can't answer that categorically.
We can only base our comment on what we see that's publicly disclosed.
And I think it would suggest that the publicly-traded companies perhaps are gaining share.
And maybe it's coming from some non-publicly-traded companies.
As far as what happens going forward it's going to continue to be a very very competitive marketplace.
So there's no doubt in our minds about that and it's going to be a matter of who executes most consistently and most crisply going forward.
And I think trends in the industry would favor some of the larger players just because of the demands that are out there in terms of the overall investments in inventory the service levels the training you give people the technology all of the things that are important to a commercial account.
So I think they play to the favor of those who have the balance sheet and the logistical capabilities to meet those demands.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And looking out in the future is consolidation in your opinion going to play a big role here given that we probably have too many retail auto parts stores in the United States right now? Well I think the industry overall will probably experience some consolidation.
And I think the market dynamics and circumstances will force some of that over time.
It's not a new phenomenon.
We've seen quite a bit of that going on over the past several years.
So our sense is that that will continue.
Our next question comes from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Yes a quick question I guess sort of following-up on the last question.
And you commented that non-fleet commercial was up while fleet commercial was down somewhat.
Is there anything going on in the competitive landscape on fleet commercial? No I don't think there's anything necessarily competitive.
I think it more directly ties to what we see happening with freight movement.
If you look at the TSI the Transportation Services Index it actually was down.
I think it was down 1.2% or 1.8% in Q4.
We don't have Q1 numbers as yet but my guess is it was probably somewhere in that range.
So I think there's just been some modest slowdown in the amount of freight that's being moved.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up question on DIY.
You commented it's being the weakest category.
Are you seeing any correlation to improving weather to improving DIY? Does that seem to be a catalyst or is DIY just generally soft across the board? Well we are seeing some evidence of it in those parts of the country where we are having more normal weather.
If you go up into the Midwest we've got the issue with flooding that's going on there.
We just had another snowstorm that moved through there.
So that's an impediment to the DIY business there.
But if we come into the warmer climate states we do see DIY business a little bit better than what it has been.
But I would also say that we think the DIY business overall is probably off a bit from where we'd all like to see it just general economic circumstances.
Our next question comes from Dave Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Shaun Kolnick on for Dave.
Sorry to stick to the Automotive side again but some of your peers have called out the impact of the delay in tax refunds and the increase in payroll taxes on the DIY business.
Are you seeing those factors impacting the business in Q1? And if so has that started normalizing in April so far? I don't think we can pinpoint it that precisely.
But logic would suggest that the delay in payroll tax refunds could have an impact.
And certainly the higher payroll tax could have an impact.
If you think of a household that has a $75 000 household income let's say and they have to get by on $1 500 less in take-home pay they're going to have to adjust disposable income and spending patterns.
And I think yes that would be a contributor for sure.
The payroll tax refunds will normalize here.
But the impact of the increased payroll tax is something we're going to have to work our way through over an extended period.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up on a kind of bigger picture view on the auto business.
The store base has been fluctuating over the last few years but 2012 did see a pickup there.
Can we expect store growth over the next couple of years to continue? And what markets do you really see the most opportunity? Well we would suggest that you will see store growth at least from the NAPA side of the business.
And we've got some specific plans.
I don't think we'd want to necessarily disclose where we think the best opportunities are but I think you can look for us going forward to expand our store footprint something between 1% and 2% per year.
Our next question comes from Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
First I just want to make sure on the guidance that I got it right.
You said that it's unchanged and that -- I thought I heard you say that the sales was unchanged as well as part of that.
So could you just update us to whether those ranges by category that you gave earlier in the year I think it was 5% to 7% in auto and one of the biggest...
Yes what we had when we gave segment guidance I think what we said Greg was Automotive 5% to 7% Industrial and the Electrical 4% to 6% and Office Products 1% to 3%.
And then when we came out on March 11 we included contribution that we anticipated from Exego.
And that's when we raised it to the 10% to 12% overall.
I would say that the guidance we gave by segment the Industrial and the Electrical we would have a bias toward the low end of the ranges that we gave only because of what we saw through the first quarter.
We still think that Office Products can get into their range.
And again a bias toward the low end of it.
And I think we're comfortable with our Automotive guidance that we gave.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> That does.
That's perfect.
And then a second on the inflation/deflation front.
I guess it ties into gross margin a bit.
Auto deflation if I remember last year was down a little bit maybe 0.3% something like that.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> What's driving the continued deflation in auto either by category? And then does that mean that in your gross margin which actually looked decent in the quarter all things considered is it fair to say that auto gross margins would have been up and the others may have been down some or how should we think about that? We don't breakout gross margin by segment.
The -- what's driving deflation right now I think in Automotive are competitive circumstances.
And I think manufacturers are having to meet the competitive situations and it's resulting in deflation modest deflation but deflation all the same in our Automotive business.
Research Division</strong> So that could influence your top line negatively but does it -- is it fair to say that that means you can get continued sourcing cost savings to help gross margin in the auto business? I guess that's what I'm trying to figure out.
Not give us the numbers but just directionally speaking.
I think directionally you could say that -- let me back up.
Our expectation right now is that we will see gross margin improvement for Genuine Parts Company as we work our way through the year.
And in order to get that we're going to have to get contribution from each of our businesses.
But we do in fact think that we will show some gross profit improvement as the year progresses.
We went through -- just as a reminder we went through a several-year period where we actually had some gross margin degradation.
And we were able to offset it with some good SG&amp;A work.
Last year we had modest gross margin improvement.
And our expectation is that we will in fact see some gross profit improvement again in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that auto deflation seems to -- can you confirm that's a trend now? It's been around for at least 5 quarters.
Well it's been around for a while.
I don't know how many quarters but it's not a new phenomenon.
Our next question comes from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> So I just want to talk about Exego for a couple of minutes here.
As far as the strategy going forward any plans to bring the NAPA brand to the region and perhaps use it as a premium branded product within the region? Brian I'll take the first stab at that.
At this point no there is not a plan to do that.
And the reason why is that the business operates under the name of Repco.
And Repco is a name that's been around actually 2 years longer than Genuine Parts has been around and they are the #1 brand over there.
It's an iconic brand in their home markets.
So our plan would be to use our sourcing leverage combined sourcing leverage to enable them to continue to do what they do.
And they've got their own private label brand in addition to some manufacturer brands.
And we're going to continue to let them operate as Repco because they are in fact the most highly recognized brand in that marketplace.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just a question on the states within auto.
What can you tell me about maybe this quarter versus Q4 and Q3 from a product mix standpoint? I think you mentioned that average ticket was still up account was down.
Are you seeing consumers go back at all -- or some of your customers go back at all to the mid-grade and potentially high-grade products? Brian this is Paul.
We're seeing some shift but not that significant.
If you look at it by product category I think I mentioned earlier we're seeing strong growth out of our battery categories strong growth out of some of our electrical products wiper some of the winter-type related products which is a good thing.
The brake business continues to be challenging for us as it has been and I think for many in the industry but we are starting to show signs of some improvement in that product category as well.
Inc.</strong> And there's still -- there is still a reticence by your customer base though to move up market? I think that's a fair statement Brian.
Your next question comes from Scott Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Patrick Palfrey on for Scott.
Earlier in the call you mentioned that it's just a more competitive sales environment.
And I was just wondering if you're seeing that environment more pronounced in one of your segments over the other? I think it's probably the same across all.
And look we've been through different cycles before.
And things tend to get a bit more competitive when we see end market demand slow up some.
And everybody's trying to find ways to improve their relative positioning in markets like this.
So I don't think it's any more pronounced than what we've seen in other cycles but it hasn't diminished at all either.
Our final question comes from Efraim Levy with S&amp;P Capital.
Last quarter you said you thought that Q1 would be down and it was.
And then there was some thoughts that possibly -- and this may be specifically to EIS or I'm not sure it could be broader than that that it would be weak.
So firstly has your Q2 view changed? Well no.
We knew that -- actually what I think we said was that we thought the first half of the year would be more challenging than the back half of the year with the first quarter being the most challenging.
As we look toward the remainder of the year I think that if we look at the Industrial-related businesses their recovery will be a little slower than what we would expect in our Automotive business.
And frankly our Automotive business I think held up pretty well under the circumstances and considering the fact that we had all of the variables at play there.
So I think Automotive should fare well going forward.
I think the others will all improve their position as the year progresses.
But I think it will take -- it will be one extra quarter for Industrial and Electrical to probably get back to where they think they'll be.
Okay.
And you have your guidance for CapEx.
But I wasn't clear exactly what the reason was why it was down so sharply as a percentage in the first quarter versus last year? It's a timing difference.
It's a timing thing of projects.
So usually in the beginning of the year and dependent on weather and things like that you may have fewer building projects and things like that.
So it's really just a timing thing.
We're usually a little lighter in the first quarter.
And then honestly with the slowdown in business they may have delayed starting some things to start those in Q2 or Q3.
Okay.
And just one more.
In the past you've sometimes differentiated the aftermarket auto versus tire trends.
Is there anything to highlight in that segment? No I don't think we have any data that we could update you with Thank you.
That was our final question.
I will now turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
We thank you for your time and interest and your support of Genuine Parts Company and we look forward to talking to you in our second quarter release.
And if you need anything else please let us know.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes today's Genuine Parts Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Andrea and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts' First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to our host Ms.
Carol Yancey Senior Vice President of Finance.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts' First Quarter Conference Call where we will discuss our earnings results and our outlook for the remainder of the 2011.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman President and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol.
And I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
As we customarily do Jerry Nix our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and I will split the duties on this call.
And once we have concluded our remarks we will look forward to answering any questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our first quarter 2011 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $2 974 000 which was up 14%.
Net income was $126.5 million which was up 26% and earnings per share were $0.80 this year compared to $0.63 in the first quarter of 2010 and the EPS increase was 27%.
So we're pleased that the sales and earnings momentum that we saw throughout 2010 continued on into the first quarter of this year.
As a result we feel that we're off to a good start and we look forward to another solid performance in 2011.
A review of the results by business segment shows that our Industrial and Electrical operations continue to produce the largest increases.
Motion Industries our Industrial Distribution business was up 24%.
This is their fourth consecutive quarter of better than 20% increases and we are very pleased with the progress that is being made in our Industrial segment.
As we look at the numbers in a bit more detail acquisitions added 5% to the increase.
But importantly we continue to see that the good results and the ongoing operations are broad based across their business as evidenced by the fact that every one of their top 12 product categories is running double-digit increases year-to-date.
And as a group these 12 categories are up 25%.
And the same can be said about their top 10 customer segments.
Double-digit increases in each case.
And as a group these top 10 customer segments are up 30% through the first quarter.
And the top 20 individual customers have a collective year-to-date increase of 30% as well.
And finally all geographic areas are showing strong double-digit improvement throughout the first quarter.
So from a number of different viewpoints the Industrial business remain strong and with the industrial production and capacity utilization indices each continuing to remain at healthy levels.
And with good execution on the growth initiatives we're optimistic about our prospects in the Industrial segment over the next several quarters.
Moving on to the Electrical segment.
EIS turned in another strong performance as well with revenues being up 39% in the quarter.
This is their fourth consecutive quarter better than 30% increases so as with the Industrial business the Electrical segment remains quite strong.
The Seacoast Wire and Cable acquisition completed in September of last year gave us a nice boost in the quarter as did the increase in copper pricing but the ongoing operation still generated a strong 19% increase over the first three months of the year.
So the underlying business in the Electrical/Electronic segment remains quite healthy.
And as with the Industrial operations the increases across the customer segments as well as the product categories were broad based and consistent.
And we're encouraged by the fact that our primary external leading demand indicator the Institute for Supply Management Purchasing Managers Index remained well above 50 through February reflective of a continued expansion in the industry.
And this bodes well for our Electrical business in the months ahead.
S.P.
Richards our Office Products company was up 5% continuing a pattern of gradual improvement that started in the second half of 2010.
You may recall that Office Products was running 1% behind through midyear last year.
Then they were even in the third quarter plus 3% in the fourth quarter and now up 5% this past quarter so the trend is a bit encouraging.
As has been the case for some time now our sales for the independent Office Products resellers have outpaced our performance with the Mega Channel.
The Independent business was up high single digits in the quarter and we are pleased that this segment of our business has been on a gradually improving trend for five consecutive quarters now.
But then our Mega business continues to run behind prior year and this segment had a high single-digit decrease in the quarter.
On the product side all four of our major product categories technology office supplies furniture and cleaning and break room showed positive growth in the quarter.
This follows a similar pattern in the fourth quarter of 2010 and it's another indication to us that our Office Supply business is on a very gradual improving trend and we expect this to continue in the quarters ahead.
And finally a few comments about Automotive.
You will recall that this business showed good sequential progress on a quarterly basis during 2010 and we ended the year with a 9% increase in the final quarter.
We were pleased to see this carryover to the first quarter of this year with our Automotive operations being up 9% once again.
And this is essentially a same-store sales increase which we think shows good progress on the part of our Automotive team.
Both our independently-owned and company-owned store groups grew at steady rates.
And in looking at the detail within the company stores our Retail business was up 4% in the quarter our Fleet business was up 5% and our Installer business was up low double digits once again.
And we're especially pleased with the steady and consistent double-digit growth that we have seen in our Installer business for over a year now.
And this is largely attributable to the continued progress being made in our two primary installer initiatives NAPA AutoCare and Major Accounts.
You will recall that they both grew at double-digit rates in 2010 and this held true to the first quarter as well.
So good progress continues to be made in each of these important areas.
When we put it all together we feel that our Automotive team came through the first quarter in good shape and we're optimistic about their prospects over the remainder of the year.
So that's a quick overview of our first quarter sales results.
And at this point we'll ask Jerry to take a few minutes to comment on the financial performance.
Jerry? Thank you Tom.
Good morning.
I appreciate you joining us on the call today.
But first I'll review the first quarter income statement and segment information then touch on a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
We incurred a total sale to a record high at $2.97 billion and at 14% for the second consecutive quarter.
We're also encouraged by the positive sales momentum in all four of our business units which is a testament to the hard work by everyone across our organization.
We look forward to reporting continued growth over the balance of the year.
Gross profit for the first quarter 28.5% which is down 70 basis points from 29.2% in the first quarter last year.
Although we see many good things happening in our businesses this area remains a challenge for us due to several reasons.
For example competitive pricing pressures and changes in product mix across our businesses continues to negatively impact our gross margin.
In addition we are seeing a growing mix of sales through our national accounts and most of our businesses which generally come with lower margins but higher sales volumes.
We're implementing both buy- and sell-side initiatives to offset these factors and they should help stabilize gross margins in the coming quarters.
We're working to reduce supply chain costs increase distribution efficiencies and maximize pricing potential.
For the year our cumulative pricing which represents the prior increases to us was 0.5% in Automotive 0.6% in Industrial 0.9% in Office Products and 1.6% in Electrical.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Expenses of $657 million were up 9.8% from $598 million for the same period in 2010.
And as a percent to sales this marks a 90 basis point improvement to 22.1% versus 23.0% last year.
Decrease in expenses as a percentage of sales is largely due to benefit of greater leverage associated with our 14% sales growth for the quarter as well as benefit of our ongoing cost control measures.
We entered 2011 with approximately $55 million in permanent cost saving from previous initiatives to significantly reduced employee headcount consolidate facilities and more effectively manage freight routes and transportation costs.
Of our 12% headcount reduction in '08 and '09 we only added back 1% in 2010 including acquisitions.
And we've added another 0.7% with acquisitions thus far in 2011.
In addition our ongoing cost initiative have produced further savings of approximately $7 million to the first quarter this year.
These initiatives have addressed cost scenarios such as freight utility and warehouse management and we expect to see additional savings coming from these initiatives over the balance of the year.
These savings continue to positively impact our overall results and our management team understands we must remain focused in this area.
We'll continue to assess the proper cost structure of our businesses as revenue growth continues.
Tightly managing our expenses remains a top priority.
Now let's look at the business units by segment.
Automotive had revenue in the quarter of $1 404 900 000 that represents 47% of the total and is up 9%.
They had operating profit $97.9 million and that was up 10%.
So margin expansion from 6.9% to 7.0%.
The Industrial Group had revenue in the quarter of $999.8 million representing 34% of the total up 24.5% with operating profit $66.0 million up 35%.
So very nice expansion from 6.1% to 6.6% of sales on operating margin.
Office Products had revenue in the quarter of $432.7 million 14% of the total up 5% with operating profit $37.4 million up 2%.
So they had slight margin degradation 8.9% to 8.6% but that's still a strong operating margin.
The Electrical Group had revenue in the quarter of $139.8 million 5% of the total.
They were up 39%.
Operating profit $10.7 million (sic) [$10.07 million] up 48%.
So nice expansion there from 6.8% to 7.2% of sales.
Putting it all together total operating profit margin for the first quarter improved 10 basis points to 7.1% from 7.0% in the first quarter of 2010 as our improved SG&amp;A leverage was partially offset the gross margin compression.
We had net interest expense of $6.5 million in the first quarter which is down slightly from 2010.
And we expect our net interest to be approximately $25 million to $26 million for the full year.
In other category which includes corporate expense amortization of intangibles and non-controlling interest was $12.9 million expense in the quarter up slightly from $12.3 million in the first quarter last year.
The increase on this line is primarily due to higher expenses for incentive-based compensation such as bonuses and stock options.
And we continue to project the total other category to be in the $45 million to $55 million range for the full year.
Now this assumes consistent levels of incentive-based compensation over the balance of the year which we would expect to incur with normalized levels of growth.
For the quarter tax rate was approximately 34.1% compared to 37.9% for the first quarter in 2010 a decrease in the rate from last year is due to favorable adjustment associated with the expiration of a statute of limitations related to international taxes.
Currently we expect the tax rate for 2011 to be about 36.5%.
Net income for the quarter $126.5 million up 26%.
EPS of $0.80 compared to $0.63 last year was up 27%.
Now let's touch base on a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at March 31 of $466 million is up $132 million from $334 million in March 31 2010.
We continue to build our cash position from increased earnings and improved working capital and we've used our cash to fund several ongoing priorities such as the increase in the dividend capital expenditures acquisitions and share repurchases which we'll discuss in more detail in a moment.
We expect to continue to generate consistently strong cash flows and expect our cash position to remain sound.
Accounts receivable $1.5 billion increased 13% for March 31 2010 on a 14% increase in sales for the first quarter.
We're pleased to have shown progress in managing this account and remain satisfied with the quality of our receivables.
Our goal at GPC remains to grow receivables at a rate less than revenue growth.
Inventory at 3/31/2011 was $2.24 billion up approximately 1% or $25 million from March 31 last year.
That is including acquisitions.
In consideration of our sales growth we believe that our management team continues to manage this key investment very well and we'll remain focused on further improving our inventory levels over the balance of 2011.
We improved our accounts payable position again this quarter with trade payables increasing to $1.4 billion which is up 16% from March 31 in the prior year.
Primarily our progress in trade payables reflects the impact of increased inventory purchases associated with our higher sales volume as well as extended payment terms and other payable initiatives with our vendors.
With the improvement in our accounts payable position our DPO continues to improve and we remain pleased with the positive direction of this working capital account.
With progress in the key areas of receivable inventory and payables working capital is $2.5 billion at March 31 is down 5% from last year.
But for comparison purposes if we add back the $250 million current portion of debt at March 31 working capital is up approximately 4% from March 31 last year.
We're encouraged with our ongoing progress in managing working capital and our balance sheet remains in excellent condition.
After several consecutive years of strong cash flows we expect to generate strong cash flows again in 2011 and currently estimate from operations of approximately $700 million for the year.
At this level free cash flow after deducting capital expenditures and dividends should be approximately $325 million which is in line with last year.
We're encouraged by the continued strength of our cash flows and remain committed to our ongoing priorities for use of the cash.
These priorities are: first the dividend which we paid every year since going public in 1948 and raised for 55 consecutive years.
As you may recall in our February board meeting our directors authorized $1.80 annual dividend for 2011 up 10% from $1.64 in 2010.
This new dividend represents a payout of approximately 60% of our 2010 earnings per share and currently yields about 3% to 3.5%.
Additional priorities for cash includes the ongoing reinvestment in each of the four businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Capital expenditures $14.5 million for the first quarter is up from $10 million invested in the first quarter last year.
Currently we expect our CapEx spend to pick up over the balance of the year and be in the range of $100 million to $110 million for the full year with the vast majority of these investments weighted toward total productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization was $22.5 million in the quarter in line with 2010.
We expect D&amp;A to remain level with last year and be approximately $90 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing important use of cash and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
As you may recall on January 31 of this year we completed two acquisitions in our Industrial business with combined annual revenues of approximately $60 million.
We continue to anticipate additional opportunities for acquisitions over the balance of the year and remain disciplined in our approach to this element of our growth strategy.
Generally we're targeting those both on tax and acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million although there are certain exceptions to this rule.
In the first quarter of 2011 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 177 000 shares of our company stock on a company share repurchase program.
This follows the purchase of approximately 1.9 million shares in 2010 and today we have right at 15.8 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we expect to remain active in the program as we continue to believe our stock's an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
Total debt at March 31 2011 remains unchanged at $500 million and a $250 million credit facility maturing in November 2011 is accounted for in current liabilities.
The second $250 million in debt is due in November 2013.
And regards to the portion of the debt due this November we can tell you that we're currently well in the process of negotiating a new debt agreement and a private placement with several insurance companies.
We expect to have a signed agreement before the end of third quarter and we'll update you on that when we have more details.
Total debt to total capitalization at March 31 14.8%.
We're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
We ended the second quarter of 2011 optimistic that we could show continued progress in growing our sales and earnings over the remainder of the year.
Steady and consistent growth has defined Genuine Parts Company for much of our history and we remain committed to continuing this trend.
We'll continue to support this growth with a strong and healthy balance sheet sound cash flows further maximizing our return to shareholders.
That concludes our financial review and I'll conclude my comments by expressing our appreciation to all our dedicated GPC associates.
We're truly very proud of this group and can't say it enough.
I also want to thank our customers and suppliers.
We appreciate their continued support as well.
Tom back to you.
Thank you Jerry.
So that's a recap of our first quarter numbers and we're proud of the results that were produced by the GPC team.
Thanks to their efforts we feel that we're off to a good start to 2011.
Now as far as the remainder of the year is concerned we continue to be optimistic about our prospects in each of our four businesses.
There are a few uncertainties however including the increase in the price of gasoline specifically and the fragility yet in the economic recovery in general.
But to this point we seem to be weathering the situation fairly well.
Additionally we point out that our comps get even more challenging over the remaining three quarters of the year with revenues being up 13% over the final nine months of 2010 and earnings per share being up 22%.
With all of this in mind our expectations are to grow total revenues by 9% to 11% for the full year which implies an 8% to 10% increase over the remainder of the year and this is up from our prior full year guidance of 6% to 8%.
And this is based on Automotive being up 6% to 8%; Industrial 15% to 17%; Office Products 4% to 6%; and the Electrical/Electronic being up 16% to 18%.
And by achieving revenue increases in these ranges we think earnings will be in the range of $3.32 to $3.42 which is up $0.10 from our prior guidance of $3.22 to $3.32 and would represent an EPS increase of 11% to 14% for the full year.
At this time we'd like to take your questions and we'll turn the call back over to Andrea.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Scot Ciccarelli.
Question can you expand a little bit Jerry on the gross margin pressure? I guess when I kind of look at the P&amp;L for the quarter revenue was a little bit better than we were looking for.
But if there was a spot that kind of took us a little by surprise it was the gross margin and you talked about some pricing issues.
But is there anything else going on there? Is there some commodity impact? Or is it really just competitive pricing in various businesses? Or is there one business being hurt more than the others? No if there was just one thing it would be a lot easier to solve the problem.
This affects all four of our business units.
And as I mentioned we do have a lot of Major Accounts in all of them and while they have lower margin they generate a lot more volume.
But it's a pricing issue it's a purchasing issue it's a combination of all of those.
And some of the issues that we have in place we have some pricing software that we're looking at to improve that.
But if you look back Scot this was going on last year as well.
And so it's continued and some of that is just the nature of the economic climate that we're operating in.
A lot of our customers refuse to take any increases.
And at this point we push back on taking any increases as you could tell from the price increase that had been passed through to us.
But it may be some of it is commodity driven but we don't have anything that detailed on it at this point.
But there are a number of things that we're working at and I think we can stabilize that over the remainder.
It's not something you can correct in one quarter but it's something we can stabilize over the remainder of this year.
LLC</strong> Is the impact more severe in any particular category? Is it really across-the-board? No it truly is across-the-board.
Each of the business units one maybe down 20 basis points more than the others something like that but they're all down.
LLC</strong> I guess my only last question about that is you guys have obviously been operating this business very well for a long period of time.
Given the robustness of the recovery and the revenue growth that you're experiencing are you surprised at all that people are being so tough on the pricing right now? Not really Scot.
As you say a lot of the customers just are in the climate that they're pushing back on all the costs all the cost increases including the cost of a product.
And so are we frankly.
We're just not doing a good a job pushing back I guess as our customers are.
But Scot this is a concern of ours and I think we can address it if the gross margin stabilizes then we can certainly continue to take out in the SG&amp;A line to offset that as we did this quarter.
But yes I think as long as we're under that pressure we're going to continue to push back to our supplier as our customers are pushing back to us.
And Scot I think it's important to also to just emphasize something Jerry just said and that is we see the trends on the margin we're working on it and I'm confident we'll show some improvement.
But when we see the trends like they are we work hard on the cost side of it as well to protect the bottom line and we're pleased with the fact that we were able to keep our SG&amp;A growth to less than what our gross profit situation would dictate.
Scot I'm just glad you got that question out of the way right off the top.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Cristello of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Couple of questions for you this morning.
The first with respect to the guidance that you sort of updated it seems like you're seeing from the last call an acceleration not only in Motion SPR [S.P.
Richards] as well as EIS but you kept sort of the Auto expectations flat.
And I'm wondering is there something that gives you more confidence today from the visibility standpoint in those other three areas versus your Auto that perhaps is keeping you a little bit more conservative right now? Well we're looking at the Industrial and the Electrical/Electronic first you saw today the March Industrial production and capacity utilization numbers and they continue to remain at very healthy and encouraging levels.
So we feel pretty good about our prospects in each of those businesses for several quarters at least.
On the Office Products side we would just say that we have been able to show some sequential improvement since midyear last year and our expectation is that we'll be able to generate increases at least in line with what we've done over the past quarter or two.
On the Automotive side there's nothing that causes us to have any real concern other than the price of fuel.
And we don't know what the impact is going to be on that.
We've held up well thus far on the sales side.
It has impacted our SG&amp;A across all of the businesses.
But what we have seen in terms of outbound sales is we have seen some reduction in the demand for any discretionary type items and we saw that late February early March and on through the month of March.
But I think maybe we're just reading what the same things you guys are putting out in terms of some concern about fuel pricing and what it might do to demand.
But as I said earlier at least through our latest report in April things are holding up pretty well for us.
With respect to the Office category and I know there's been initiatives that you've had and it's certainly reflected in the results.
Is there anything else or more color you can share with us in terms of updating us on some of those initiatives and what's underway right now? Well I don't think we can get too specific on the initiatives that are underway.
I would say that the last two quarters we have seen 400 000 plus increases in service sector employment.
And that's the first time we've seen anything like that going all the way back to 2007.
So I think that the external demand is a little better than what it had been this time last year.
And then that coupled with some of the specific things that the Office Products team is doing I think give us some encouragement some optimism for the remainder of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America.
Actually John Lovallo on for John Murphy.
A few questions for you here.
And I don't know if this had been touched on earlier I got on a little bit late.
But are you guys sourcing any parts from Japan at this point in any of your businesses? We have a very small amount that comes directly from in country and we don't see as yet any disruptions there.
What we don't know at this point John is any component pieces that maybe some of our other vendors maybe sourcing out of Japan.
But we've talked to every vendor and at this point we think the supply line looks pretty good going forward.
We don't anticipate any disruption right now.
Okay fair enough.
And you talked about kind of your target range for acquisitions.
Anyway you said there could be some exceptions.
I mean do you see any kind of bigger kind of chunky acquisition targets out there? Not right now we don't.
We've got some discussions that are going and they're only discussions at this point.
But they're pretty much in the range that Jerry mentioned.
Okay fair enough.
And finally in terms of segment margins looking at the Auto business I mean do you think I mean how are you kind of thinking about that longer term? I mean are we at levels that are getting kind of peakish or do you see further room for expansion? We think that we can improve the operating margins in each of the four businesses.
We don't think that there's anything dramatic that's going to happen from one quarter to the next.
But we have stated before that our longer-term expectations for Automotive will be 8% to 8.5%.
And at this point we continue to think that that's achievable over a several year period.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers from JPMorgan.
This is actually Mark on for Chris.
I was hoping given unfavorability on weather in January can you maybe speak to some of the changing trends on a monthly basis? And then I guess it seems like you're not really seeing any impact from the rising fuel prices? Maybe if there's an idea or a number in your head perhaps that you think about that you see the consumer pullback a little bit in terms of mileage driven? Well taking the first part of the question first we did -- we were impacted by the weather in January and to a degree in February as well.
But we were able to recover from that impact in the latter part of February and on into March.
As far as the impact of fuel pricing we haven't seen it materially yet but that's not to say that we might not.
We have seen discretionary spending tighten up a little bit in the Automotive business and we think that there may be some further tightening that might come.
But the way we're structured our model is that we're 25% to 30% retail and we're 70% to 75% wholesale or commercial.
And the Commercial business will be a little less impacted by that than the Retail business will be.
But again looking sequentially at the quarter our weakest quarter on the retail side or weakest month on the retail side was actually in the month of March.
So that may be an early indicator but we're not ready to categorically say it's a trend.
Got you.
And I guess in terms of just the overall businesses it seems like in terms of your comments that there was a steady improvement from January February to March? I think that's right yes.
Okay.
And then I was hoping you might be able to talk a little bit about the Fleet business mid-single digits for a while now you start to comp some tougher comparisons in the next few quarters.
Do you think that's sustainable and maybe what you're seeing in the Fleet business? We were up in our Fleet business 5% in the quarter which we think just shows some good stabilization in that business.
And at this point based upon the indices that we track and talking to customers we think that that is sustainable over the remainder of the year.
We're not looking for a return to high single or low double-digit growth in that segment at least not in the foreseeable future.
But if we can continue to maintain something in the mid-single digits I think we'd be happy with that.
Great.
And then just my final question coming back to the Office segment the Mega has really been a drag on that segment in general.
Is there anything you're seeing now that gives you any sort of optimism on that part? Well if we look at the Megas the three primary ones and we sell -- understand we sell into the commercial side of their businesses not to the retail side.
So our sales patterns were more -- reflect what they're able to do on their Contract business.
And if you look back to last year you could see that for the most part it was a tough year on that business for them and our results reflected that.
We did see one of them turn low single-digit positive on the Contract business in the fourth quarter.
The other two remained low single-digit negative.
We have not seen first quarter results as yet but we think it's going to continue to be a gradual improvement there.
Our business is roughly 82% with the Independents and 18% with the Megas.
So right now we're fortunate that the Independent business remains reasonably healthy for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Ben for Matt Fassler.
Just again on the Automotive growth that you showed in the quarter it was unchanged on a year-over-year basis from what you've seen in 4Q.
And also in 1Q your growth was well above what has been guided to by your competitors which have yet to report first quarter results.
Do you think that your strong performance in the first quarter there is it more indicative of the industry overall holding momentum from the fourth quarter to the first? Or do you think it is more a function of your having gained share? I don't know that I could give you an absolute answer on that.
But what I would say is that it's clearly driven by the double-digit growth that we're getting on the Installer side of the business.
As I mentioned in my remarks we have seen double-digit growth there for four quarters now and we feel quite good about the job that our teams are doing in growing that business.
So we'll have to wait and see what the rest of the industry reports.
But the Installer business has been and continues to be pretty healthy for us and our expectation is that it will continue to be that in the quarters ahead.
Okay.
And then gross margins were talked about a lot but it seems that expense growth may also be accelerating.
The year-over-year change in SG&amp;A was much faster in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter despite the fact that sales growth was fairly similar.
So what is driving the expenses higher at this stage? And is it more of a temporary factor or is it something that is likely to remain with us? I don't think it's anything significant.
Certainly a part of that is increased fuel costs that we are absorbing.
And at this point we had less than 1% of the headcount that we reduced added back to support the 14% sales growth.
So we have to continue to be focused on the service to our customers.
We're going to have an expense increase I wouldn't expect to see it at 9%.
But then it also depends on the level of revenue growth that we see.
You will continue to see improvement in the percent of sales on the SG&amp;A side.
I can say that I think with confidence but what percent increase in the total category you're going to see we just can't give you an answer.
Just a little more color Jerry mentioned the fuel cost.
It was several million dollars in the quarter.
So it was significant it was material.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Montani of ISI Group.
Just had actually two.
The first was on the pricing side.
Looking out for this year obviously taking the sales guidance up effectively by 3% it looks like based on the pricing into you all which seems to be about 1% or less that that would be largely driven by volume.
Can you just talk about I guess in terms of first of all input pricing that you're seeing from your vendors how does that compare to what you had planned at this point and what is your outlook for the rest of the year in light of the 3% increase in the sales guidance? Mike I'll take that.
In terms of what we expect for the remainder of the year at this point we would say that there'll be more price increases coming over the remainder of the year than what we've seen through the first quarter.
We hear discussions and conversations today that a number of the vendors are looking for some price adjustments in and around the midyear time frame.
And we have some idea of the range in most cases so our expectation is that we'll see more impact as the year progresses.
But our expectation in the guidance is that we'll continue to enjoy reasonably healthy unit growth as well.
And the other question I have was on vendor rebates and just wondering if you can give us an update there? I noticed obviously a little bit of growth in inventory but not a lot.
Is there anything you can say with respect to what you might have seen so far this year and what your outlook is? Mike we were basically flat in what we accrued for in the first quarter.
We expect for the year to be up less than 10% in rebates for the whole company and we accrued that and we were right at 25% in the first quarter based on the best estimates we can make for the full year.
We're not going to grow our inventory to gain incentives.
So if business continues strong we'll hit those incentive targets just by the share purchases to support those sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer of Gabelli Capital [Gabelli &amp; Company].
Inc.</strong> It's Brian Sponheimer.
I want to stay in pricing here for a second.
So if we assume that inflation is going to pick up and you're going to have to pass on some pricing as the year progresses what mechanisms do you have to potentially keep margins flat? Or are we really looking at operating profit dollars staying flat while margins decline? I don't -- in terms of what mechanisms I think as price increases flow through the channel we'll have an opportunity not to just pass along the price increase but maybe to do some adjustments in the process.
So our hope and expectation frankly is that we will start to show some stability on the gross profit line and then continue to do a pretty decent job on the SG&amp;A line.
But we'll just have to wait until we get the opportunity to make some of those adjustments.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just in discussions with your installer group in the Automotive side and obviously there has been a supply disruption for a week parts coming out of Japan.
Is there any business at least for 2Q or 3Q that you think you can pick up whether it's -- it's obviously a warranty work whether it's on the customer pay or any dealer business that you may benefit from? Well we won't pick up anything on the warranty side Brian because they have to use OE part from their channel.
But on the customer pay if there are some supply disruptions and we do have an opportunity there and we have an opportunity both through our NAPA AutoCare and Major Accounts side of business.
And also if there are disruptions through the OE channels we have an opportunity with the dealers for non-warranty repair work.
So we think that may be a positive for us to one degree or another in the quarter or two ahead.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just one more if I may.
You had a very noticeable ad campaign for a sporting event during the first quarter of this year.
Is that something that we can continue to see throughout the remainder of the year and maybe a larger pickup in national advertising versus say radio or local television? Well first of all I'd complement our team on the NAPA side that worked with the agency to create those ads.
We've heard they're a bit edgy but we also know that they drove awareness quite well.
So I do think they're encouraged by what they saw in the results and you may see a bit more.
But you won't see anything dramatically more.
And then you'll see a lot of local advertising over the course of the year as well.
But all geared toward playing up the idea that our people that work on our stores are pretty knowledgeable.
They're good parts professionals and we're proud of them and we want to tout that fact.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Within Motion Industries as you look at your various end-user markets are there any that have been underperforming that could ramp up? I think a little bit of petrochemical which I think you do some there.
But is there anywhere that's -- you could see things improve over the next several quarters? Well the one area across our entire customer set the one area that continues to be challenged is any of the industries that are related to commercial or residential construction.
So we don't anticipate any material change in the demand patterns in those areas.
Conversely we do think that there are several that we could see continued strength and perhaps even a little further strengthening as we go forward.
Petrochem would be one.
Some of the oil exploration-related businesses could be another.
Some of the infrastructure-related businesses that might be positively impacted as we get into the warmer weather and see more of that work being done.
So we continue to remain quite optimistic about the prospects in that business over the remainder this year honestly.
Inc.</strong> On the residential commercial construction have you ever been able to narrow down how much of sales that represents? No because it's direct and indirect.
So no we don't have a number for you.
Inc.</strong> But most of it would be in Electrical and in Motion correct? Yes that's right.
Although I should say Automotive would have that too because we deal with a lot of independent contractors on the Automotive side.
Your final question comes from the line of Bill Selesky of Argus Research.
I just had a couple of quick questions.
With reference to the earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2011 does that assume any buyback activity or would buyback activity be incremental? That's got the buyback numbers in there.
Okay.
And I wanted to ask a question about inflation.
Can you tell me what you guys are seeing as far as price increases going forward through the remainder of 2011? Or what your forecast might be for inflation? We can't give you an absolute forecast or one number.
What we can tell you is that there is more discussion going on right now than what we have seen in some time in terms of vendors proposing and needing price increases.
We do think we will see more of an impact from inflation as we work our way through the remainder of the year.
Much of it I think will come in the second half of the year Q3 and Q4.
Okay.
And I just had one last question as it applies to headcount.
I think back in 2010 Jerry might have mentioned it you added back maybe 1% to headcount.
And so far year-to-date I think you mentioned 0.7% of an increase due to recent acquisitions.
Could you say how that would turn out by the end of the year? Well unless we make additional acquisitions I mean our intent is to keep that headcount growth that we took out out of there.
And unless we an additional acquisition or two depending on the size could add to that number but I don't see it growing over 1% again in 2011.
And there are no further questions.
I would like to hand the floor over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you Andrea.
We appreciate each of you joining us on the call today.
We're grateful to those of you that continue to support and have an interest in Genuine Parts Company.
We look forward to talking to you when we release our second quarter results or if anything happens of any significance prior to that.
Have a good day.
Thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is David and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Carol Yancey.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts' second quarter conference call to discuss our earnings results and the outlook for 2011.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in our company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman President and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol.
And I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
As we customarily do Jerry Nix our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and I will split the duties on this call.
And once we have concluded our remarks we will look forward to answering any questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our second quarter 2010 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $3 185 000 000 which was up 12%.
Net income was $151.8 million and this was up 22%.
And earnings per share were $0.96 this year compared to $0.78 in the second quarter of 2010 and EPS increase was 23%.
These are all record results for us so we feel that we had another good quarter with solid contributions from all 4 of our business segments and we're proud of the job that is being done by the GPC team.
Through their continued efforts we feel that we're positioned to have another good year in 2011.
A review of the second quarter results by business segment shows that our Industrial and Electrical operations continue to produce the largest sales increases.
Motion Industries our Industrial distribution business was up 19% in the quarter and they went over $1 billion in quarterly sales for the first time.
Acquisitions added about 3% to the Industrial increase in the quarter but importantly the ongoing operations generated a very healthy 16% increase so the underlying Industrial business continues to perform well.
And as we look a bit more closely at the detail of the results we continue to be encouraged by the strong performance that we see across the broad base of the Industrial business as evidenced by the fact that 11 of the top 12 product categories were up double-digits in the quarter and as a group they were up 19%.
And then each of the top 10 industry segments had double-digit increases in the second quarter and as a group they were up 26%.
A review of the top 20 customers shows a combined 25% increase for this group.
And one final point is that every geographic region was up double-digits in the quarter.
So as you can see the Industrial business remains quite strong and healthy and they end the first half up 22%.
And with the Industrial production and capacity utilization indices each continuing to look favorable we remain optimistic about the prospects for our Industrial business over the remainder of the year.
Moving on to the Electrical segment.
EIS had another strong performance with sales being up 28%.
Acquisition revenue added 10% to the quarterly increase.
Copper pricing had a positive impact of 4% which means that the ongoing operations were up 14% in the quarter which we feel is a solid performance.
As with our Industrial business the increases across the EIS product categories and customer segments are broad-based and consistent which is indicative of a healthy end market as well as a good job being done by the EIS team.
They closed out the first half up 34% and with Institute for the Supply Management Purchasing Managers Index remaining above 50 through June we're encouraged about EIS's prospects over the second half of the year.
Office Products was up 4% in the quarter.
This follows a 5% increase in the first quarter so a fairly consistent sales pattern through the first half of the year despite the continued moderation and demand in the Office Products industry.
As has been the case for a number of quarters now our sales to the independent Office Products channel have outpaced our sales to the Mega Channel.
The independent business was up 7% in the quarter and this follows an 8% increase in Q1 so a steady progress is being made with this customer segment.
But then this is being offset by continued decreases with the Mega Channel which was down 10% in the quarter.
On the products side we had growth in all 4 of the categories: technology office supplies furniture and cleaning &amp; breakroom which we are pleased to see.
This is the third consecutive quarter of positive growth across all 4 product groups simultaneously which is encouraging and we feel it's an indication that our Office Products business is on a very slow but gradually improving trend.
And finally a few comments about Automotive.
We're pleased to report another 9% increase for this segment.
This follows 9% increases in the fourth quarter 2010 and the first quarter of this year so a very steady picture here.
And we feel it's an indicative of the good job that is being done by our Automotive team.
And looking a bit more closely at the sales results within our company-owned store group we did see additional softening in our retail sales in the quarter.
After ending 2010 with a 5% increase in retail we were up 4% in the first quarter and then up just slightly in the second quarter so we have seen some weakening in our retail business.
And the biggest impact has been felt in the discretionary categories which we attribute largely to the higher gasoline prices and cautious consumer sentiment.
The nondiscretionary categories continue to perform reasonably well in the quarter.
On the wholesale side our fleet business was up 5% in the quarter similar to our first quarter results and our commercial and installer business was up low double-digit was again.
And this is largely attributable to the continued good progress being made in our 2 primary installer initiatives NAPA AutoCare and major accounts.
You may recall that these 2 programs combined represented about $2 billion in sales for us in 2010 which was up low double-digits over 2009 and they're up low double-digits through June of this year as well.
So we continue to experience good growth in these 2 important commercial programs.
When we put it all together we're pleased to be able to report another 9% increase for Automotive operations and we feel good about their prospects over the remainder of the year.
So that's a quick overview of the second quarter sales results.
And Jerry will now take a few minutes to comment on the income statement and balance sheet.
Jerry? Thank you Tom.
Good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
We'll first review the second quarter and 6-month income statement and segment information then touch on a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
A review of the income statement shows the following.
Total sales reached another record high $3.2 billion for the second quarter up 12% from last year and our fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit sales growth.
For the 6 months total sales of $6.2 billion up 13% from 2010 and as we head into the half last half of the year we remain optimistic about the continued positive sales momentum in all 4 of our business units.
Gross profit for the second quarter was 28.76% up 22 basis points from our margin in the first quarter this year while down only 12 basis points from 28.88% in the second quarter last year.
For the 6 months gross margin is now at 28.65% which is down 40 basis points from 29.05% for the same period last year.
This area has been a challenge for us for several periods now so we're pleased to see the sequential improvement to the overall gross margin and to also narrow the gap in the year-over-year comparison.
We had told you last quarter we're working hard to stabilize our gross margin by the end of 2011 and expect it to be operating on a relatively even run rate with the prior year so it's good to see us move in that direction this quarter.
As that said we have more work ahead of us so we continue to address ongoing competitive pricing pressures changes in product mix and a growing mix of sales to national accounts in most of our businesses which generally come with lower margin but higher sales volumes.
As discussed last quarter we had both buy and sell side initiatives to reduce supply chain costs increase distribution efficiencies and maximize pricing potential to help us offset these factors and further stabilize gross margins in the coming quarters.
Now in the meantime we will continue to offset any decreases in gross margin line with cost savings in our overall improvement in operating expenses.
For the year our cumulative pricing which represents the prior increases to us was plus 1.4% in Automotive plus 2.6% in Industrial plus 1.5% in Office Products and plus 3.6% in Electrical.
Now turning to SG&amp;A.
Expenses of $675 million were up 8.5% from $622 million for the same period in 2010 and as a percent to sales improved by 65 basis points to 21.18% versus 21.83% last year.
For the 6 months in 2011 SG&amp;A stands at $1.3 billion a 9% increase from the same period in 2010 and at 21.62% of sales which is a 77 basis point improvement from last year.
We're encouraged that our expenses continue to improve as a percentage of sales and we attribute this progress to the combined benefits of greater leverage associated with our sales growth and ongoing measures to control costs.
As a reminder we carried over approximately $55 million in permanent cost savings from initiatives in '08 and '09 to significantly reduce employee headcount consolidate facilities and more effectively manage freight and transportation costs.
In addition since our 12% headcount reduction in '08 and '09 we added back 1% in 2010 including acquisitions and have only added another 2% with acquisitions thus far in 2011.
Furthermore our ongoing cost initiative reduced further savings of approximately $20 million through the second quarter of this year.
These initiatives continue to help us address costs in areas such as freight utility and warehouse management.
We expect to see additional savings from these initiatives over the balance of the year.
Our cost savings continue to positively impact our overall results and our management team understands we must remain focused in this area.
Tightly managing our expenses remain the top priority and we'll continue to assess the proper cost structure of our businesses as revenue growth continues.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
Automotive had revenue in the quarter $1 585.1 million up 9% and that represents 50% of the total.
They had operating profit of $138.8 million up 10% so nice margin expansion from 8.6% to 8.8%.
The Industrial Group had revenue in the quarter $1 051.3 million that's up 19% representing 33% of the total.
They had operating profit of $85.3 million up 42% so very strong margin improvement from 6.8% to 8.1%.
Office Products had revenue in the quarter of $418.0 million that's up 4%.
That represents 13% of the total operating profit $31.4 million up 3% with margins at 7.5% compared to 7.6% the prior year.
Electrical had revenue in the quarter of $136.8 million up 28% representing 4% of the total operating profit of $9.2 million up 32% with margins at 6.7% compared to 6.5% for the second quarter of 2010.
Now putting it all together total operating profit margin for the second quarter improved 40 basis points to 8.3% from 7.9% in the second quarter of 2010.
For the 6 months total operating margin of 7.7% is up 30 basis points from last year.
The improved expense leverage associated with our sales growth and our cost management efforts noted earlier have driven the increase in operating margin for both the quarter and the year.
We had net interest expense of $6.2 million and $12.7 million for the second quarter and 6 months respectively which is down slightly from 2010.
We continue to expect our net interest for the full year to be approximately $25 million to $26 million.
Other category which includes corporate expense amortization of intangibles and noncontrolling interests was a $16.8 million expense in the quarter and is $29.7 million for the 6 months through June.
Slight increase on this line for the quarter and the year reflects higher expenses for incentive-based compensation such as bonuses and stock options.
We continue to project the other category to be in the $45 million to $55 million range for the full year and that assumes steady levels of incentive-based comp over second half of the year which we would expect to incur with normalized levels of growth.
Tax rate for the quarter was approximately 37.2% compared to 38.0% for the second quarter in 2010.
For the 6 months our 35.8% effective rate compares to 38.0% for the same period last year with the decrease in rate due to favorable adjustment in the first quarter associated with the expiration of the statute of limitation-related international taxes.
Currently we expect the tax rate for 2011 to be about 36.5%.
Net income for the quarter $151.8 million is up 22%.
EPS of $0.96 compared to $0.78 last year up 23%.
For the year net income $278.3 million up 24%.
EPS $1.76 compared to $1.42 last year is also up 24%.
Now let's touch base on a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at June 30 of $517 million is up $105 million from $412 million at June 30 last year.
We've built our cash position from increased earnings effective asset management and cost reductions and we continue to use our cash to fund several ongoing priorities such as increasing the dividend capital expenditures acquisitions and share repurchases which we will discuss in more detail later.
We expect to continue to generate consistently strong cash flows through the balance of the year.
Accounts receivable $1.6 billion increased 16% from June 30 2010 on a 12% increase in sales for the second quarter.
This is a higher growth rate than we'd like to see as our goal at GPC is to grow receivables at rate less than revenue growth.
Fortunately we remain satisfied with the quality of our receivables but we have work to do in this area to get our trade receivables more in line with sales.
Inventory at 6/30 was $2.25 billion.
That's up approximately 4% from June of last year.
In consideration of our sales growth we believe that our management team continues to manage this key investment very well and we remain focused on further improving our inventory levels over the balance of 2011.
We improved our accounts payable position again this quarter with trade payables increasing to $1.49 billion up 16% from June 30 in the prior year.
Our progress in trade payables primarily reflects the impact of increased inventory purchases associated with our higher sales volumes as well as extended payment terms and other payable initiatives with our vendors.
With the improvement in our accounts payable our days payable continue to improve as well and we remain pleased with the positive direction of this working capital account.
Working capital of $2.5 billion at June 30 is down 4% from last year.
And for comparison purposes when we add back the $250 million current portion of the debt at June 30 2011 working capital is up approximately 5% from June 30 last year.
We're encouraged with our ongoing progress in managing working capital and our balance sheet remains in excellent condition.
Total debt at June 30 2011 remains unchanged at $500 million.
The first $200 million -- $250 million credit facility matures in November of this year and is accounted for in current liabilities.
We have a new signed agreement extending this debt at a 3.35% interest rate for another 5 years and we'll reclassify the debt to long-term upon the funding in the fourth quarter.
The second $250 million in debt is due in November of 2013.
Total debt -- total capitalization at June 30 14.6% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
Following several consecutive years of strong cash flows we expect to generate a strong cash flow again in 2011 and currently estimate cash from operations of approximately $700 million for the year.
At this level free cash flow after deducting capital expenditures and dividends should exceed $300 million which is in line with last year.
We are pleased with the continued strength of our cash flows and remain committed to our ongoing priorities for the use of the cash.
These priorities are first the dividend which we've paid every year since going public in 1948 and have increased for 55 consecutive years.
Our 2011 annual dividend of $1.80 per share represents a 10% decrease from $1.64 in 2010 and represents a payout ratio of 60% of our 2010 earnings.
Currently the dividend is yielding approximately 3.2% and historically yields 3% to 4%.
Additional priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of the 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Capital expenditures $27.2 million for the second quarter up from $18.1 million invested in the second quarter last year.
For the 6 months capital spending totaled $41.7 million for 2011 compared to $27.9 million in 2010.
We expect our CapEx spend to be in the range of $100 million to $110 million for the full year with the vast majority of these investments weighted towards productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization $22.9 million in the quarter $45.5 million for the 6 months which is in line with the same periods in 2010.
We expect D&amp;A to hold relatively constant with last year at approximately $90 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of cash and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
Our Industrial business completed 2 acquisitions in the first quarter with combined annual revenues of approximately $60 million.
We continue to anticipate additional opportunities for acquisitions over the balance of the year and remain disciplined in our approach to this settlement of our growth strategy generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $150 million range although there are certainly exceptions to this rule.
In the second quarter of 2011 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 900 000 shares of our company stock under the company's share repurchase program.
Year-to-date we purchased approximately 1.1 million shares and have another 14.9 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we expect to remain active in the programs as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
We remain optimistic in our outlook for the second half of 2011 and look forward to reporting continued progress in growing our sales and earnings.
We're committed to producing steady and consistent growth for the company and we believe we have the right people and the right strategy to do so.
As always we'll continue to support our growth plans with strong cash flows healthy balance sheet further maximizing our return to shareholders.
This concludes our financial review and I'll conclude my comments by expressing our sincere appreciation to all of our dedicated GPC associates.
We're extremely proud of this group and can't say it enough.
We also want to thank our customers and suppliers.
We appreciate their continued support as well.
Tom I'll turn it back to you.
Thank you Jerry.
Well that concludes our review of the second quarter and first half results.
And as mentioned earlier we're proud of the job that has been done by the GPC team thus far in 2011.
Now as far as the rest of the year is concerned we continue to be optimistic about our prospects in each of our 4 businesses over the remainder of the year.
End market conditions are generally favorable in each case and the growth initiatives for each of the businesses are well-defined.
Our current expectations are for the full year revenue growth of 9% to 11% which is in line with our prior guidance and this implies revenue growth of 6% to 9% over the remainder of the year with Automotive being up 6% to 8% over the remainder of the year Industrial 8% to 10%; Office Products 3% to 5%; and Electrical/Electronic up 10% to 12%.
And we recognize that our second half growth expectations are tempered down from where we are through June but some uncertainties remain which are beyond our control including the ongoing impact of the higher gasoline prices on miles driven and consumer spending the high level of unemployment and suboptimal job creation and the general fragility yet of the economic recovery.
Additionally our comparisons get even more challenging in the second half of the year with last year's revenues being up 13.5% over the final 6 months and earnings per share up 22%.
On the earnings side we feel that a range of $3.40 to $3.50 is appropriate at this time.
And this is up from our prior guidance of $3.32 to $3.42.
At the $3.40 to $3.50 range this would represent an EPS increase of 13% to 17% for the full year.
And with revenues up 9% to 11% for the year and EPS up 13% to 17% following the 11% revenue and 20% EPS increases in 2010 we would consider that a solid performance by the Genuine Parts team.
At this time we'd now like to try to address your questions and we'll turn the call back over to David.
David? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers of JPMorgan.
So a couple of questions.
First just from a top line perspective.
Clearly there are reasons to be cautious given the environment and the compares.
But I guess Thomas is it fair to say that you're not necessarily seeing anything right now that would cause that concern? Well that's fair and true.
The first half of July things look about like they did through the second quarter.
Okay.
And then as you think about the retail slowdown to up slightly in the auto business how much of that is just kind of April's weather? And I guess the other way to ask that is did you see a -- did retail rebound later in the quarter if you have that information available? No.
Our results actually were fairly consistent through the quarter.
We did not see any spikes or any big peaks or valleys.
We just think in looking at the outbound sales flow that it is more tied to consumer spending and to discretionary items.
And on the commercial side it looks like again you'll post I guess industry-leading sales growth on the commercial side of the business.
So I mean is it simply your initiatives are -- you lagged in '09 you had a good '10 on the commercial side.
Is '11 you recapturing that market share that you temporarily gave away in 2009? Is that how we should think about it? I think to a degree yes.
We actually feel that we started to recapture some of the market share in 2010.
And I just think our people have done a really good job in executing the strategies that they have to continue to have a strong presence on the commercial side of the business.
I think our execution is quite good right now.
Is there any competitive set that you would say that one more that you're being more successful taking share from one competitor versus the other? No I wouldn't say that.
Yes I just tried.
And then really the biggest question on the margin side is the Industrial margins.
And from a modeling perspective that was a substantial surprise.
So I was just curious as how sustainable is that? And then underneath that was there anything with vendor allowance dollars in this quarter or LIFO that would make that expansion more one-time in nature to this quarter? Chris this is Jerry.
No the latter part of that question no LIFO in that second quarter number.
There certainly is some impact on the vendor rebates.
We expect and just because revenue is better that we'll have a better year overall in rebates and so -- or up slightly in rebates in the second half.
How sustainable is that? Longer-term we've stated that our goal is to get the operating margins for the Industrial back to the 8% 8.5% range.
And with the sales strength that they've had in the last 18 months we think we can achieve that this year unless something falls off dramatically here in the second half.
But we feel good about what we're seeing in the Industrial side at this point.
So is that -- I guess as you look at kind of the trend in the Industrial margins back out to the year you had about an 8%.
The second quarter you did an 8.1% here.
So was 1Q the anomaly? Is there some seasonality that we should think about that just...
No a combination of both.
There are some seasonality but one the first quarter was a phenomenal -- phenomena as you call it.
And I think we're going to be in the 8% to 8.5% range.
But as things continue to improve in the Industrial side we won't tell them to stop at 8.5%.
If we continue to show strong revenue and get the rebate levels back to where they were then we can sustain that so.
Chris one additional comment.
The first quarter in the Industrial business is generally a lower operating margin quarter.
Last year in the first quarter we were at 6.1% this year 6.6% and then sequentially the quarters get a little bit stronger as the year progresses.
So the main thing for us and the focus of the management team is to keep the revenue line strong and continue to show quarter-over-quarter operating margin improvement.
And your next question comes from the line of John Murphy of Bank of America.
This is Elizabeth Lane on for John.
I just had a couple of questions.
You mentioned that the Automotive segment was fairly consistent throughout the quarter.
Was that the case for the other segments as well? Or were there particular months that stood out? No.
In fact we had a lot of consistency in all 4 of the businesses through the quarter.
And in fact the overall company on a per day basis we were up 12% in April we were up 11% in May and we're up 12% in June so quite stable.
Okay.
And second miles driven started to decline in the spring which is generally a negative indicator for demand for replacement parts and tires.
But the last data point that the FHWA has is April.
Do you have any sense of what travel trends have been like so far in the summer? And does it still look like that could be a little weak? No we're still operating off of the same data point that you are so we don't have anything more current than that.
And the only thing we can look at at this point is like on the retail side we can see the slowdown in the discretionary items.
And we know anecdotally in talking to our commercial customers that the consumer is getting the absolute needed repairs.
But they're trying to defer as much as they can at the time or currently.
But that's about as much as we know at this moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Cristello of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Tom one of the questions I want to discuss is sort of the acquisition environment.
And if the environment remains steady in the Industrial side and you continue to see progress results can you talk about what that implies for your ability to continue to get acquisitions done? Are the acquisitions opportunities still there? Are they getting better? Are they getting worse? And how should we think about it on a go forward basis? I'd say that for the past 6 to 9 months the opportunities I think have been relatively constant.
We have discussions going on.
We've been able to do 2 get 2 completed thus far this year.
We may or may not be able to get any more completed but there are discussions that are going on.
And we think the environment is going to remain about where it is or perhaps it might get a little bit better.
When you then look at sort of the overall operating environment you've posted very consistent results.
Do you still look at the data in the Industrial production and those type of numbers that sort of your gauge for how you are predicting your guidance for the balance of the year and what things will look like? Because I mean obviously going back to when we were hitting the financial crisis and the recession things seem to drop off quite materially.
And I'm just wondering has your visibility changed or the way you go about providing guidance any different than it was a few years ago? No not materially.
We look at the same data points that we've looked at historically.
We do try to stay in close communication with our customer base on a plant-by-plant basis to find out what their order backlogs look like and what their expectations are.
The combination of those 2 would suggest to us right now that our business the end market will remain quite healthy as we go through the remainder of this year.
The government came out just this morning with the June industrial production and capacity utilization numbers and they were very good and very steady.
So we feel good about the second half of the year in the Industrial business.
Okay.
And the Office Products side sort of a tale of 2 cities there.
I mean your independents are doing quite well.
Do you think that that is sustainable as long as nothing else changes from an economic perspective? Is there something that you've done that your peers haven't to sort of capitalize on that piece of business? No.
I think the first part of the question: Is it is sustainable? We feel yes.
We feel that the independent operators are cautiously optimistic about the outlook over the next couple of quarters.
The main concern is job creation in the Office Products business and we have seen some thus far this year and that follows a pattern that we saw develop in 2010.
And as long as that continues I think that part of the business should remain in line with where it is currently.
Okay and one question on Automotive.
You discussed sort of the sequential flattening going from plus 4% in the first quarter.
Are you doing anything different? I know over the past quarters you discussed the interest in wanting to increase your exposure increase your mix to the retail side in some emphasis there.
Has there been anything from either an advertising standpoint or anything you've done differently that you would say has helped even though it's flattening out that you've seen your business improve I mean from a mix standpoint? Maybe I need to ask the question a different way but do you kind of understand where I'm going with that question.
Well I think our advertising over the past several quarters has been sharper and more effective than prior to that so I give our team their high marks.
I think our e-commerce initiatives which we don't talk about too much but I think that they've done quite good over the past couple of quarters.
And our teams are working on story sets and new planograms and the things that we normally do on an ongoing basis.
And I think we're pleased with what's been done.
We don't think they're reflective -- we don't think our results are reflective of the good work that's been done in these areas.
And hopefully as things stabilize somewhat and we get a little bit more discretionary spending then we'll see the results reflected in our retail business.
The next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Scot Ciccarelli.
I guess my question is the Industrial's been very strong for a while.
And in fact it seems to be coming from various geographies and end markets are very broad-based.
When you see -- historically if you'd seen that kind of really broad-based strength how quickly can that really change on you? In other words does it start to kind of creep up on you? Or is there something that on a dime multiple businesses and end markets can really change? Well prior to the second week of October in 2009 we would've said it would be a very gradual -- or 2008 I should say would be a very gradual change.
But we saw in the fourth quarter of 2008 we saw a very quick drop-off but that was during the financial crisis as youll recall.
Right now we would think and expect that it will be more gradual and we'll have several points of indication as we go into a slower period.
And we don't see any evidence of that right now.
Scot historically we have tracked the Industrial production and manufacturing capacity utilization numbers with a 6- to 9-month time lag.
And that's been over numerous cycles into and out of slowdowns.
So you do normally have -- with that one exception Tom mentioned you do have some indication and some time that you can adjust.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess I'm just curious on -- I'm asking in for an opinion here.
I mean it sounds like there's a disconnect between what you're seeing at the end markets and obviously June was a little bit better but some of the more broader macro data out there.
What would you guys attribute that to? We don't really know.
We get asked this question a lot quite honestly and we read and hear the same media reports that you do.
There does seem to be a disconnect between what we read and hear and what we're experiencing in the marketplace.
And we try to just keep our teams focused on the opportunities that we have in the marketplace and filter out some of the negative things that we continue to read and hear about.
We don't want to be immune to them but at the same time there are plenty of opportunities yet before us in each of our 4 businesses.
And for us the key is just to continue to execute as well as we have been.
And your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> The sequential gross margin progress if we look at that by segment was there any one segment that stood out as you moved from first to second? Keith I'll take that.
No there's not.
And all of our business units have been under gross margin pressure and they all need to improve and they all have individual and specific plans to improve.
But no you can't look at any one segment and say the improvement overall came from that segment.
Inc.</strong> Is this progress is going to be hampered given the lower sales view you have for the second half of the year versus what we saw in the first half? I don't think so.
The initiative is the same regardless of the volume.
And we would not expect to see it hampered.
If it is we'd be disappointed.
Inc.</strong> So this is more internal stuff this...
That's correct.
And your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler of Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to engage you a bit on the pricing environment in the Automotive business both what you're seeing broadly and some follow-up on the steps you're taking.
You had done some work over the past number of years to increase your competitiveness there.
Just interesting in how that's -- interested that is in how that's playing out in the current environment.
Well the competitive environment is about as it has been and it's probably the way it's going to be and that it is it's a competitive industry and we just have to learn how to operate effectively in that environment.
As far as our price positioning I think that our price positioning is better than what it was back in 2009 and the early part of 2010.
Our teams are very very focused on watching what's happening in the marketplace and reacting on an ongoing basis to what's happening in the marketplace.
But we don't see any material changes on the horizon up or down.
Our expectation is that it will continue to be as competitive as it has been.
Got it.
And then as we think about the potential for operating leverage in that business your results overall are quite good.
The operating margins are up some.
The incremental flow-through I guess on the incremental revenue isn't that far above the base operating margins.
So as we think about the profit composition of the incremental sales does that reflect the pricing posture? Or is there a mix factor that contributes to that? Just to make sure we understand that.
Well there is a mix factor in there.
There are certain product categories that have different gross profit contribution and as we get more revenue growth from some of those categories that has an impact on the overall gross profit.
There are also customer categories that have different gross profit contribution.
I think Jerry made a comment in his remarks that we're doing very good business with major accounts throughout all of our businesses.
And generally speaking the gross margins are a little lower on those but the dollar volumes are significantly higher.
So it's a combination of product category and customer category shifting.
And your next question comes from the line of Gregory Melich of ISI.
[Technical Difficulty] Your next question is from Michael Ward of Ticonderoga.
A couple of things.
On the Automotive the cash business is still roughly 25% to 30% of the total? Yes sir that's right.
So that's suggesting professional mechanic is up somewhere around 12% or 13% again? Well I don't know.
I just said low double-digit.
We'll let you do the calculating.
Okay.
No for the professional markets so in the major account is one of the big areas I assume new car is still kind of low single-digits.
When you say new car I'm not following you.
The new car dealers I'm sorry.
Yes that's not a -- that's a big business in total but it's not a high percentage of our total volume.
Where are you seeing some of the strength? Is it any lines in particular or regions in particular? Are you selling more to older vehicles? Is the -- your content and the average age of the vehicle has it gone up with this aging fleet? It seems like you're outpacing the industry.
And so I'm just curious where the strength is coming from.
Well I mentioned in my comments more broadly speaking that NAPA AutoCare and major accounts are both growing in low double-digits and we're getting nice growth in those 2 important parts of our commercial business.
And then as far as we are selling it's more car parts it's more critical components.
As these vehicles continue to age they're experiencing higher frequency and also a greater demand for repair parts and I think we're benefiting some from that.
So are you getting the second and third generation on some of these components? In some cases yes we would.
In some cases.
Jerry you mentioned on the cost side I thought you said you were able to hold on to $55 million of the cost cuts that you made in '09 -- '08 and '09 and then you've added an additional $20 million in costs.
Is that correct? Yes the $20 million is from the current year.
And every year we go in with some cost-saving initiatives and that's what we've accomplished thus far.
And the $55 million you're right is from the '08 '09 time period.
Okay.
And then lastly do you have a share count for the end of the quarter? Yes we do hold on a minute Mike.
We're right at 152 million.
Yes we've got 151 812 000.
And your final question comes from the line of Gregory Melich of ISI.
This is Mike Montani on for Greg.
I just had a question for you on I guess the inflation that you're seeing right now.
Saw it looks like mixing it out across the divisions about 2% increase this quarter from vendors and to you all.
When you look at the 6% to 9% sort of back half top line guidance can you just help us understand number one how much of that might be inflation versus volume and then what you're hearing from the vendors? We would expect price increases to be a bit above where we are by the end of the year a bit above the second quarter numbers by year end.
As far as what we're hearing from vendors we have a lot of discussions with the vendors and they continue to think that they need some price increases.
Our posture on that is we're fine with that provided that we don't lose competitive positioning and provided also that they're applied simultaneously across all of their customer segments.
So we may see -- we will see those numbers go up a bit but I don't know that they would double between now and year end.
Mike let me just point out there's a danger in saying that the price increases average out to 2%.
You got Automotive at 1.4% and they represent 50% of our revenue and you got Electrical at 3.6% and they represent 4% of our revenue.
So I just caution you that it's not quite straightforward as that.
Understood okay.
And then just a follow-up on the gross margin rate.
Obviously you made substantial improvement there sequentially.
And I'm not sure Jerry if you can just give a little more color.
It sounds like a little bit better vendor rebates and also internal initiatives.
And I think you had some work you were doing with price optimization on the auto side.
Maybe is that one thing that's helping here? Or can you just share a little bit more? Yes it is a combination of all of that Mike.
The rebate certainly helped the Industrial side some.
We do have the pricing software that we're working into the Automotive side.
We've previously done that in the Office Products side.
So it's a combination of a lot of things and it's buy side and sell side and it's product mix customer mix.
There's a lot of tweaking and that's why it takes some time to get gross margin turn around to start to improve.
So it is a combination of all of those things.
But you're right the rebates did help show some improvement in the Industrial side.
Great that's helpful.
And just the last question I have was for the full year the outlook for $700 million of cash flow from ops.
I think year-to-date we're at about $250 million.
And typically it seems to be normally relatively flat 1 half versus 2 half.
Is there anything specific maybe inventories are up 4% and we should anticipate that that would be up less? Or how do you sort of get there? Yes if you look at this point last year that change there was a source of cash.
And this year it's a use of cash.
And we were down at June 30 last year at 2% in inventory and we're up 4% in inventory this year.
And then we were also last year I think the receivable was up 9% and you have 16%.
And I think you'll see some further improvement in that inventory number as well as receivables.
We're comfortable that the $700 million in cash from operations that we'll be able to achieve that.
And there are no additional questions in queue at this time.
David thank you for your job on the call today and we appreciate all of those that did call in.
We appreciate everybody's ongoing continued support of Genuine Parts Company and we look forward to talking to you if not sooner on our third quarter conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brooke and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]  I will now turn the conference call over to Carol Yancey Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Secretary.
Thank you.
Ms.
Yancey you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts third quarter conference call to discuss our earnings results and our outlook for the remainder of 2011.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman President and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
As we customarily do Jerry Nix our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and I will split the duties on this call.
And once we have concluded our remarks we will look forward to answering any questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our third quarter 2011 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3 286 000 000 which was up 11%.
Operating profit was $276.8 million and that represents a 19% increase.
Net income was $151.8 million which was up 15% and earnings per share were $0.97 this year compared to $0.83 in the third quarter of 2010 and the EPS increase was 17%.
These were all record results for us.
So we feel we had another good quarter.
It was solid contributions from all 4 of our business segments and we're proud of the job that is being done by the GPC team.
Through their continued efforts we feel that we are positioned to have another good year in 2011.
A review of the third quarter results by business segment shows that our Industrial and Electrical operations continue to produce the largest sales increases.
Motion Industries our Industrial Distribution business was up 18% in the quarter on top of the 29% increase in the third quarter of last year and then went over $1 billion in quarterly sales for the second consecutive quarter.
So our Industrial operations continue to perform well.
Acquisitions added about 3% to the Industrial increase in the quarter but importantly the ongoing operations generated a very healthy 15% increase.
So the underlying Industrial business continues to generate strong results.
And as we look a bit more closely at the sales detail we continue to be encouraged by the solid performance that we see across a broad base of the Industrial business as evidenced by the fact that all 10 of the top product categories were up double digit in the quarter and as a group they were up over 20%.
And then 9 of the top 10 industry segments had double-digit increases in the third quarter and as a group they were up over 20% also.
A review of the top 20 customers shows a combined purchase increase of over 20% for this group and one final point is that every geographic region was up double digits in the quarter.
These are consistent results and as you can see the Industrial business remains quite strong and healthy and they're running up just over 20% year-to-date.
And with the Industrial production and capacity utilization indices each continuing to look favorable we remain optimistic about the prospects for our Industrial business over the final quarter of the year and on into the early part of 2012.
Moving on to the Electrical segment.
EIS had another strong performance with sales being up 22% which is on top of a 31% increase in the third quarter of 2010.
Acquisition revenue added 11 points to the quarterly increase and represents sales from Seacoast Electric acquired in August of 2010 and Cobra Wire &amp; Cable which we acquired on September 1 of this year.
We expect Cobra to generate annual revenues of approximately $43 million and we are pleased with this strategic addition to the EIS business.
In addition to the acquisition boost that we got on revenue copper pricing had a positive sales impact of 3% which means that the ongoing EIS operations were up 8% in the quarter which we feel is a solid performance.
As with our Industrial business the increases across the EIS product categories and customer segments were broad-based and consistent which is indicative of a healthy end market as well as a good job being done by the EIS team.
Through 3 quarters they're up 30% and with the Institute for Supply Management Purchasing Managers Index remaining above 50 through September we're encouraged about EIS' prospects in the months ahead.
Office Products was up 3% in the quarter.
This follows a 5% increase in the first quarter and a 4% increase in the second quarter.
So we have seen a modest deceleration in our growth rates as the year has progressed.
As has been the case for a number of quarters now our sales to the independent Office Products channel have outpaced our sales to the Mega Channel.
The independent business was up 6% in the quarter and they're up 7% year-to-date so steady progress is being made with this customer segment.
But then this is being offset by continued decreases with the Mega Channel which was down 12% in the quarter and is down 11% for the year.
On the product side we had positive results in 3 of the 4 main product categories: office supplies; technology products; and cleaning and break room; and then we were down just slightly in the furniture category in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis each of the 4 product categories is positive and our Office Products company is up 4%.
While not up to our historical results we do feel that S.P.
Richards is performing in line or perhaps just a bit above the overall Office Products industry and we feel that it will take a more robust overall jobs recovery for demand in the industry to show material improvement.
And finally a few comments about Automotive.
We're pleased to report another 9% increase for this segment.
This is the fourth consecutive quarter of 9% increases and we feel that it is indicative of the good job that our Automotive team has been doing.
Within our company-owned store group our same-store sales were up 6.9% and this was driven by continued solid results on the commercial side of the business where we're up 8% in the quarter.
We did see a little improvement on the retail side ending the quarter at 2% after being essentially flat in the second quarter.
Within the Commercial segment we saw continued good growth in our NAPA AutoCare and major account initiatives.
They combined for a 10% increase in the quarter and they're up 10% on a year-to-date basis as well.
So the results from these 2 important programs remain strong.
Our fleet business was up 5% in the quarter following 5% increases in each of the first 2 quarters so a steady and consistent performance in this category.
And then our non-fleet Commercial business which includes AutoCare and major accounts was up low double digits in the quarter as well as year-to-date again showing a steady and consistent picture.
When we put it all together we're pleased to be able to report another 9% increase for our Automotive operations and we feel good about their prospects over the remainder of the year.
Now before turning the call over to Jerry it is perhaps appropriate to make a few comments about our recently announced plans to take a 30% ownership position in Exego group the leading automotive distributor in Australia and New Zealand.
Exego has annual revenues of just over $1 billion and they go to market through 430 company-owned locations in Australia and New Zealand.
This investment represents an important strategic initiative on our part which we believe positions the company for significant long-term growth opportunities in Australia and New Zealand as well as the potential for targeted growth in Asia.
The regulatory approvals required in Australia and New Zealand are well underway and should be completed within another 45 days or so.
We don't anticipate any issues and expect to close on the agreement on or about December 1.
As a result we do not expect this investment to have any real impact on our business in the current year.
Exego's leading market position and long and successful history serving both the DIFM and the DIY markets makes them a valuable partner to us.
In addition we've had the opportunity to study each other's businesses over the years and our fundamental values and commitment to the automotive aftermarket align very well.
We're also fortunate that the structure of the investment allows us to enter these new markets in a disciplined manner.
Genuine Parts Company has the option to acquire the remaining shares of Exego once it has met certain earnings thresholds which we anticipate to be several years away.
While a minority owner we intend to fully support Exego's growth strategies and learn even more about the future growth opportunities in Australia and New Zealand and the surrounding markets.
As a 30% stakeholder the return on our investment will be accounted for as minority interest income on our income statement.
For 2012 we estimate an earnings contribution of approximately $0.04 to $0.05.
We think this is a conservative expectation and we expect it to grow in each subsequent year.
So that's our update for today.
We're excited about this growth opportunity for our Automotive business and we will be happy to answer additional questions in the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
But first we'd like to ask Jerry to give you an update on our third quarter and 9-month financial performance.
Jerry? Thank you Tom.
Good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
We'll first review the third quarter 9-month income statements and segment information then touch on a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
A review of the income statement shows the following.
Total sales reached another record high of $3.3 billion for the third quarter up 11% from last year and our sixth conservative quarter of double-digit sales growth.
For the 9 months total sales are $9.4 billion up 12% from 2010.
And if you look ahead to the fourth quarter we remain encouraged by the continued positive sales momentum across our businesses.
Gross profit for the third quarter was 28.87% up slightly from our margin in the second quarter this year and in line with the 28.91% achieved in the third quarter last year.
This is significant as it shows that we met our objective of improving gross margin to an even run rate with the prior year a quarter earlier than we expected.
As for the 9 months gross margin at 28.7% compared to 29.0% last year down 30 basis points.
We're encouraged by the steady progress on this line and over the past few periods we expect and we expect our fourth quarter gross margin to hold at no less than our rate for the fourth quarter last year.
Going forward we would expect to show gradual improvement in our gross margins in 2012.
To accomplish this goal we'll continue to execute our ongoing buy and sell side initiatives to reduce supply chain costs increased distribution efficiencies and maximize pricing potential.
These initiatives are necessary to account the impact of factors such as competitive pricing pressures changes in product mix and a growing mix of sales to national accounts in most of our businesses which generally come to lower margin but higher sales volumes.
As we work towards further improving our gross margin we'll also continue to focus on our cost-saving initiatives and overall improvement in operating expenses.
For the year our cumulative pricing through 9 months which represents supply increases to us was plus 2.4% in Automotive 3.3% increase in Industrial plus 1.6% in Office Products and plus 4.8% in Electrical.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Expenses are $701 million were up 9.5% from $641 million for the same period in 2010 and as a percent of sales improved by 40 basis points to 21.4% versus 21.7% last year.
For the 9 months in 2011 SG&amp;A stands at $2.0 billion a 9.3% increase from the same period in 2010 and at 21.5% of sales which is a 60 basis point improvement from 22.1% of sales last year.
We're encouraged by the continued improvement in our expenses as a percentage of sales and we attribute this progress to the combined benefits of greater leverage associated with our sales growth and ongoing measures to control costs.
In addition to the favorable impact of prior year expense reduction initiatives which included a 12% headcount reduction in '08 and '09 our ongoing cost initiatives have produced further savings of approximately $30 million through September this year.
We've also added back just 3% of our labor force including acquisitions since the beginning of 2010.
These initiatives continue to positively impact our costs in several areas including freight utilities warehouse and infrastructure cost.
And in the current period serve to partially offset a $6 million expense associated with our third quarter retirement plan valuation adjustment which we had not anticipated at the time of our last earnings call.
We're pleased with our progress in effectively controlling costs thus far in 2011 and our management team remains focused in this area.
Tightly managing our expenses remains a top priority and we'll continue to assess the proper cost structure of our businesses as revenue growth continues.
Now I'll discussed the segment results.
For the quarter Automotive had revenue in the third quarter of $1 611 300 000 that was up 9%.
It had operating profit $141.2 million up 14%.
So nice operating profit margin expansion from 8.4% to 8.8%.
The Industrial Group for the quarter had revenue of $1 089 800 000 up 18% and our operating profit is $97.2 million up 33% so very strong margin expansion from 7.9% to 8.9%.
Office Products had revenue in the quarter $447.3 million that's up 3%.
Operating profit of $27.2 million up 2% with margin staying flat at 6.1%.
The Electrical Group had revenue in the quarter $143.3 million up 22%.
Operating profit $11.1 million up 33%.
So nice margin expansion from 7.2% in the third quarter last year to 7.8% third quarter this year.
Looking at sales by segment.
For the full 9 months automotive had revenue of $4 601 300 000 that represents 49% of the total.
That's up 9% and it had operating profit of $377.9 million up 11.5%.
So margins expanded 20 basis points to 8.2%.
Industrial Group had revenue for the 9 months $3 140 900 000 representing 33% of the total and that's up 20.5%.
With the operating profit $248.5 million up 37%.
So again strong margin expansion for the 9 months as well as the third quarter going from 7.0% to 7.9%.
Office Products had revenue for the 9 months $1 298 000 000.
That represents 14% of the total up 4% with operating profit of $96.0 million up 2.5%.
So margins down slightly from 7.5% to 7.4%.
The Electrical Group had revenue for the 9 months of $420.0 million.
That's 4% of the total up 29.5% with operating profit $30.4 million up 37%.
Again nice margin expansion from 6.8% to 7.2% of revenue.
So on a consolidated basis total operating profit increased by 19% in the third quarter.
Operating profit margin improved 50 basis points to 8.4% from 7.9% in the third quarter 2010.
For the 9 months total operating profit increased 18% and operating margin of 8.8% is up 40 basis points from last year.
Now this is solid progress for both the quarter and the year driven by the improved expense leverage associated with our sales growth and our cost management efforts noted earlier.
We had net interest expense of $6.2 million and $19.0 million for the third quarter and 9 months respectively which is down slightly from 2010.
We continue to expect our net interest for the full year to be approximately $25 million to $26 million.
The other category which includes corporate expense amortization of intangibles and noncontrolling interest was a $23.4 million expense in the quarter and is $53.2 million for the 9 months through September.
This quarter's expenses up approximately $10.5 million from the third quarter last year and primarily reflects the difference in a $3 million favorable retirement plan valuation adjustment recorded in 2010 and a $6 million expense recorded in the third quarter this year as mentioned earlier.
With the exception of this line item the expenses in other are relatively in line with last year subject to slight increases in expenses like incentive-based comps such as bonuses and stock options.
We currently project the total other category to be approximately $60 million for the full year.
Tax rate for the quarter was approximately 38.6% compared to 38.0% for the third quarter in 2010.
Increase in the rate was due to the nondeductible status of the retirement plan adjustment just discussed.
For the 9 months our 36.8% effective tax rate compares favorably to the 38.0% for the same period last year with the decrease in the rate due to the favorable adjustment in the first quarter of this year associated with the expiration of the stature of limitation related to international taxes.
We expect the tax rate for the full year in 2011 to be in the range of 36.5% to 37%.
Net income for the quarter $151.8 million was up 15%.
EPS a record $0.97 compared to $0.83 last year up 17%.
For the year net income is $430.2 million up 21%.
EPS $2.72 compared to $2.25 in the prior year which is also up 21%.
Now let's touch base on a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at September 30 of $535 million is up slightly from September 30 last year and remains strong.
We built our cash position from increased earnings effective asset management and cost reductions and we continue to use our cash to fund several ongoing priorities such as the increase in the dividend capital expenditures acquisitions and share repurchases.
We'll discuss each of these areas in more detail later.
We'd also add that in the third quarter we used $43 million in cash to fund our pension plan which is required from time to time.
We expect to continue to generate consistently strong cash flows through the balance of the year.
Accounts receivable $1.53 billion increased 10% from September 30 2010 on an 11% increase in sales for the third quarter.
This is an improvement from where we were last quarter and is in line with our company goal of growing receivables at a rate less than revenue growth.
So good to see some progress in this area and we also remain very satisfied with the quality of our receivables.
Inventory at 9/30 was $2.25 billion up 1% from December 31 2010 and up 3% or $68 million from September 30 last year.
In consideration of our double-digit sales growth we believe the management team continues to manage this key investment very well and we remain focused on further improving our inventory results over the balance of 2011.
We improved our accounts payable position again this quarter with trade payables increase in the $1.59 billion up 16% from September 30 in the prior year.
Our progress in trade payables primarily reflects the impact of increased inventory purchases associated with our higher sales volume as well as extended payment terms and other payable initiatives with our vendors.
With the improvement in our accounts payable position our DPO continues to improve as well and we remain very pleased with the positive direction of this working capital account.
Working capital of $2.4 billion at September 30 is down 10% from last year and for comparison purposes when we add back the $250 million current portion of debt at September 30 2011 working capital is basically unchanged from September 30 of last year.
We're encouraged with our ongoing progress in managing working capital and our balance sheet remains in excellent condition.
Total debt at September 30 remains unchanged at $500 million.
The first $250 million credit facility matures in November this year and is accounted for in current liabilities.
We have a new signed agreement extending this debt at 3.35% interest rate for another 5 years and we'll reclassify the debt to long term upon funding in the fourth quarter.
Second $250 million in debt is due in November 2013.
Total debt to total capitalization at September 30 were 14.7% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
While our several consecutive years of strong cash flow we expect to generate strong cash flows for the full year and continue to estimate cash from operations of approximately $700 million for the year.
At this level free cash flow after deducting capital expenditures and dividends should be more than $300 million which is in line with last year.
We are pleased with the continued strength of our cash flows and remain committed to our ongoing priorities for the use of the cash.
As noted before these priorities are our first to dividend which we paid every year since going public in 1948 and raised for 55 consecutive years.
Our 2011 annual dividend of $1.80 per share represents a 10% increase from $1.64 in 2010 and represents a payout of approximately 60% of our 2010 earnings per share.
Currently the dividend is yielding approximately 3.3% and historically had ranged from 3% to 4%.
Additional priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of the 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment and capital expenditures was $22.2 million for the third quarter down from $31.0 million invested in the third quarter last year.
For the 9 months CapEx is up slightly to $63.9 million for 2011 compared to $59.0 million in 2010.
We continue to expect our CapEx spending to be in a range of $100 million to $110 million for the full year with the vast majority of these investments weighted toward productivity and enhancement projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization $21.5 million in the quarter and is $66.9 million for the 9 months which is in line with the same periods in 2010.
We expect D&amp;A to hold relatively constant with last year at approximately $90 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of cash and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
In the third quarter our Electrical business completed the Cobra Wire &amp; Cable acquisition on September 1 and our Industrial unit made a small acquisition in July.
Combined with the Industrial's 2 acquisitions in the first quarter annual revenues for the acquired companies add to approximately $125 million and as Tom covered earlier we also recently announced our investment in Exego which is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
So we continue to find opportunities to do acquisition and remain disciplined in our approach to this element of our growth strategy.
We're excited about the growth potential of a large investments such as Exego but we will continue to primarily target those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $150 million range.
In the third quarter of 2011 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 1.2 million shares of our company's stock on the company's share repurchase program.
Year-to-date we purchased approximately 2.4 million shares and have another 13.5 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we expect to remain active in the program as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
We're very pleased with our third quarter operating results and must thank all of our dedicated GPC associates for doing such a great job.
We achieved our goals through their hard work and we just can't say enough about their commitment to the success of Genuine Parts Company.
As always we also want to thank our customers and suppliers.
We sincerely appreciate their continued support.
Looking ahead we remain optimistic in our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2011 and look forward to reporting continued progress in growing our sales and earnings and further improving our margins and working capital position.
We remain committed to producing steady and consistent growth for the company and we believe we have the right people and the right strategy to do this.
As always we'll continue to support our growth plans with strong cash flow and a healthy balance sheet further maximizing our return to shareholders.
Tom? Thank you Jerry.
Well that pretty much concludes our review of the third quarter and 9-month results.
And with sales up 12% year-to-date and earnings per share up 21% we think that our folks have done a good job thus far in 2011.
Now as far as the outlook for the final quarter of the year we continue to feel good about our overall prospects.
The underlying fundamentals in the Automotive aftermarket remain generally favorable and gasoline prices have moderated somewhat over the past few weeks.
Industrial production capacity utilization and the purchasing managers index are each at healthy levels creating a favorable end market climate for our Industrial and Electrical Electronic businesses.
The outlier for us is the Office Product segment where we anticipate continued sluggish demand across the industry for a while yet.
So the external conditions remain favorable in 3 of our 4 business segments currently.
However at the same time we are aware of the overall uncertainty in the outlook for the general economic climate and its potential impact on end market demand.
With all of that said our fourth quarter expectations are for our Automotive operations to be up 7% to 9% Industrial and Electrical to be up 10% to 12% each Office Products to be up 2% to 4%.
And this would combine for a 7% to 9% increase for GPC for the fourth quarter and will put us up 11% to 12% for the year.
And with revenue increases in this range we would expect earnings per share to be $3.51 to $3.55 for the full year which is an increase from our prior guidance of $3.40 to $3.50 and it would put us up 17% to 18% for the year.
From our perspective an 11% to 12% revenue increase this year on top of last year's 11% increase and an EPS increase of 17% to 18% this year following last year's 20% improvement would represent another good performance from the GPC team.
And as said earlier we're proud of the job that they're doing.
At this point we'd like to try to answer any questions that you may have and we'll turn the call back over to Brooke.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from John Murphy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Tom just a question that is sort of a more macro question.
In all of your businesses you guys are doing well and seen big increases.
Sounds like you're pretty encouraged about the fourth quarter.
Yet there's this constant fear among investors and obviously in sort of the popular press and sort of everywhere you look these days that there's another shoe about to drop.
I mean what gives you the comfort that you're going to see this strength in the fourth quarter? And do you believe that in your segments you're really gaining market share? Because it seems like there's partially some outperformance that's going on here as well because of market share gains.
Well John we're very much aware of what's being reported in the media.
We read the same periodicals and hear the same news reports and certainly the overall economy is not enjoying robust growth.
At the same time however what we're experiencing in the marketplace is better than what the overall economic indicators would lead us to suspect.
And in talking with our customer sets across all of the businesses the anecdotal information that we get is that everybody's aware of potential slowdown but for right now they don't see it in the day-to-day activity.
As far as market share I'd say that our numbers would suggest that we're holding our own in a minimum and perhaps taking a little bit in some cases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second question on the pricing environment.
I mean you indicated that there were some pockets of competitive pricing.
I'm just curious in the 4 segments what you're seeing as far as pricing and if you're able to take prices your input costs rise.
Well if we look across each of the 4 businesses price increases year-to-date in Office Products have been 1.6% in Automotive 2.4% in Industrial they're 3.3% and Electrical/Electronic they're 4.8%.
So we have seen some price increases and we have been able to move them forward.
You've heard us say before that we do have some contractual agreements with certain customers primarily in the Industrial and Electrical/Electronic business.
And in those cases we have some pricing windows that we need to adhere to.
So there may be a little bit of lag in the implementation of some price increases in certain cases.
But by and large we are able to move the prices through.
The overall pricing environment across all 4 of the businesses remains as it has been.
It's been pretty competitive but I think our teams have done a very good job of adjusting and making whatever changes they need to make in order to enable us to continue to move ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jerry just on the financing doing the $250 billion at 3 I think you said 3.35% for the next 5 years.
I mean is there a possibility that you would consider taking on some more debt here just 14.7% debt to cap.
Your stock looks inexpensive.
I mean would you consider sort of a potential slight levering up and recapitalization to maybe get more aggressive on share buybacks or potentially acquisitions? John I don't believe we would leverage the company to do a share repurchase program.
We've been doing share repurchases since 1994 and if something dramatic were to happen in our stock to cause a major weakness certainly that would be an option.
But we would be willing to leverage the balance sheet up to make more acquisitions and support the company's growth that way.
But I don't think you're going to see us leveraging the balance sheet to increase the share repurchase program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on Exego I mean you guys mentioned that might be a foray into growth overseas particularly in Southeast Asia.
Just curious if we need to wait for you to make the acquisition with the other 70% or as you're going through that earn out process could you actually do that execute on that growth before you own the remaining 70%? The first priority John will be to work with the Exego folks in driving their growth and frankly we're already underway with that.
And we like what we see in the very very early days.
So priority one will be further penetrating the current markets of Australia and New Zealand.
Priority 2 would be to move potentially into some of the surrounding markets.
And if in fact it made sense for the entity for Exego to do that then we would be very supportive of that.
But I think first and foremost we'll continue to follow the plan that's been laid out for driving the growth in their home markets.
Your next question comes from Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mark Becks on for Chris.
Focusing on the Automotive side that remains strong can you speak to some of the initiatives that you're implementing to drive market share? And also you mentioned the Retail business acceleration.
Can you talk to what's driving that? And was the improvement steady throughout the quarter? Well on the overall Automotive performance the main initiatives we would comment on are the same ones we mentioned in our prepared remarks and that would be our AutoCare and major account initiatives.
These are our 2 primary programs on the commercial side of the business and they continue to perform really well there.
So we just continue to pay a lot of attention to those and do what we can to drive the performance in each of those.
We would not want to get too specific in terms of the individual initiatives that we have there.
But we are pleased with our results thus far.
The retail side of it it was improvement but modest improvement.
We were up 3/10 of 1% in Q2 and we were up 2% in Q3.
So we wouldn't consider that a major comeback.
We're pleased to see a bit of a turnaround but we'd like to get a couple of more quarters under our belt with increased improvement on the retail side before we think that we've really made the turn there.
We continue to see a lot of discipline on the part of the consumer in their spending patterns.
And anything that's discretionary is being pushed off for the most part and it's only the critical parts that are needed that we're really seeing reasonable growth with at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know it's a little bit early but just looking at the aftermarket for 2012 do you think the same dynamics that we're seeing now such as industry sales exceeding kind of the historical growth rate of 2% to 4% and then also the commercial side of the business outpacing the retail do you think those dynamics continue? Well we think there's a good possibility that they will.
That the number of vehicles is relatively constant but the age of the vehicles continues to increase and even with miles driven being down modestly the wear and tear on those older vehicles has an incremental impact on parts demand.
So we do think that there is a possibility that we'll continue to see good demand in the market.
And then as far as the DIFM versus the retail again our expectation would be that that will continue to grow at a rate a bit in excess of the overall Retail business because of the complexity of vehicles and whatnot.
So we continue to be optimistic about the aftermarket for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just switching over to Industrial.
Obviously those end markets remain strong.
If the ISM or capacity utilization some of the metrics say you're looking at do slow what kind of reasonable growth rates should we be thinking about for that business? Depends upon how much they slow.
If they slow modestly I think that we can look for mid to high single-digit growth in that business.
If we see dramatic drop off as we did in the fourth quarter of 2008 and on into the early part of 2009 then I think we're going to be battling hard to keep our head above water.
But right now both of those indices look favorable.
They both improved as you probably know in the recent round of reports that came out.
So if we see gradual moderation we think we'll be able to show a pretty good growth.
But if we see major deceleration then we're going to be impacted like everybody else.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one final question for me.
Can you speak to really what's driving the EBIT margin improvement in Industrial? Did vendor allowances help out at all this quarter versus 3Q of last year? And then now just looking at the margin structure that side of the business you're bouncing up against kind of your target of 8% 8.5% EBIT margins.
Is there maybe your thoughts on that number? Mark I'll take that.
Yes it did impact our business.
We were up slightly in the rebates and allowances in the third quarter compared to third quarter last year.
It had an impact in gross margin maybe 10 to 20 basis points and some of that converged on down to the EBIT margin.
As far as your question about us achieving our goal of 8% to 8.5% you're right we are getting closer to that goal but that doesn't mean we can't change the goal after we get there we'll just raise it.
And that's just the nature of the beast here but we certainly want to make sure that we can achieve that 8% to 8.5% operating margin target that we set.
Your next question comes from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Patrick Palfrey sitting in for Scott today.
I guess last quarter you had mentioned that in terms of within auto commercial customers were starting to get the absolute needed repairs and foregoing as much as possible.
As gas prices have started to come back from $4 in May are you seeing that starting to change or is that still continuing? No I think that's continuing.
I think what needs to be done is getting done but not much more than that quite honestly.
Average ticket prices at repair facilities are up over what they might have been historically but the incidence of repair is flat to what it had been.
And then there's the tendency to look for lower-priced product or just the repair work that has to be done at that moment.
Next question comes from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> One question related to the gross margin side.
You talked about some initiatives.
You talked about gross margin next year possibly being up some.
Is there any more clarity or color you can shed on some of the potential initiatives you may be putting in place that will help you offset some of the competitive pressures and some of the other things you talked about? I don't think we can give you too much color on that Tony.
The initiatives are grouped into a couple of areas.
You got the buy side which we're working hard across all of the businesses and then you got the sell side.
And on the sell side you've got price and we've been working hard to elevate our level of pricing sophistication.
And then you got sell side mix which we are working on as well.
So there are basically 3 levers that we're trying to pull simultaneously and I think at this point we've got a degree of confidence that our team is getting a bit of traction in those areas and we feel that we should in fact stabilize as we get into the fourth quarter and then move a bit ahead as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Do you think what you've just gone through in this cycle and what you're continuing to go through in terms of your growth here of late has certainly I believe outpaced sort of what our expectations would have been and certainly held up well.
Do you think there's a widening of the gap between you and some of the smaller independents in the marketplace and sort of how you're viewed via your customers in general? Well we don't have hard data to support what I'm about to say but our feeling is that the larger companies perhaps are performing a bit better than some of the smaller companies.
And we think that that perhaps is going to continue as we work our way forward into 2012.
And frankly we think it's going to be kind of the environment we're going to be in for a period longer than that.
Research Division</strong> Is that a function of capital or balance sheet strength more than anything? Or is it just your ability to integrate your technology and sort of deliver a level of customer service that some of the smaller guys aren't able to do right now? I think it's a combination of all of those things and more.
I think it's just a confluence of things that are coming together currently and our feeling is that if we'll just continue to do the things that we know are important to drive our business that we should be able to perform in line with the market and hopefully just a little bit better than what the market performance is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe one last question.
When you talked about the SG&amp;A that you've taken out 12% or so in 2008 2009 and when you added back about 3% of labor since 2010 if we assume that the overall economy grows at a modest pace in the next few years are you at a level from an infrastructure standpoint that you would only have to add back minimal labor? And could you just remind me again where the majority of those labor cuts or 12% reduction took place via a segment breakdown? Well we don't have it by segment breakdown but it was pretty consistent across all of the businesses.
Going back to your first point we do think if we have modest growth any incremental headcount addition will be less than the growth that we're experiencing.
And we continue to invest as Jerry mentioned earlier we continue to invest in technological initiatives that we think enable us to do a better job without adding the incremental people that we might have had to in the past or they give us better information to manage the business.
So they're the primary investments that we're making today quite honestly.
Your next question comes from Ryan Brinkman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the top line at Industrial obviously the trend has also been very strong.
Last week Fastidol [ph] also reported strong 3Q sales but mentioned too that they were starting to see more recently some anecdotal signs of slowing.
And I know that you're encouraged by some of the macro indicators but is there anything -- I'm curious that you're seeing on the ground which could suggest to you that the strong sales growth could start to slow perhaps near term? Our expectation Ryan near term is that it should be more of the same.
And we based that on what our operators are telling us and they're getting it from what they're seeing in the customers' places of business.
Additionally we're just trying to talk with major customers and key suppliers to see what they're experiencing in the current environment.
And at this point we would just feel like it should continue at or about the pace we've seen in the most recent quarter.
So there's nothing yet that says that there's a drop-off.
That's not to say that it won't be there but we don't see it as yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I think this is a frequently asked question on your calls but I'm always interested in your answer and how it changes over time.
I know that dividend growth is the highest priority for capital allocation but how are you thinking right now about the balance between acquisitions and share repurchases? And does the Exego acquisition have any impact on the amount of capital you might allocate to North American acquisitions going forward or is that somehow separate? Ryan this is Jerry.
I'll take that.
No -- I'll answer your last question first.
It doesn't really have any impact on our position as far as going forward and continuing to make the acquisitions in the categories that we talked about earlier.
And yes there's always an ongoing discussion and a balancing act between the capital of allocated acquisitions and the capital allocated to share repurchases.
Our feeling is that we can do both.
Our feeling is that doing both is the best way to maximize the shareholder value and I think that we'll be able to be in a position to do so.
But there comes a time sometimes that the Genuine Parts Company is the best acquisition we can make.
So that's when we're more aggressive in the share repurchase program.
And there's other times that we feel that for longer-term growth we're going to have to invest in acquisitions and get 1% to 2% top line growth out of those acquisitions.
So that's the target for us.
I think we can do both.
Our plans and structure is to continue to do both.
Your next question comes from Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> So if I'm to understand this correctly you're seeing average ticket price go up in auto given the percentage of sales that's going to it and an older -- repairing an older vehicle but number of or ticket count is relatively flat.
If we're thinking about 2012 and let's say we get relatively flat gas prices and some sort of pure pickup in economic activity what confidence is there that you continue to see an increase in trend on the average ticket but you also have the boost from ticket count? Brian I'll take that.
Just a point of clarification.
That comment is specific to the repair side of the business our customer base and we don't know for sure.
But what we feel will happen if there's a relatively tranquil market is that over time people are going to have to get fixed some of the things that they haven't fixed here before.
So we would hope and frankly we would expect some increase in ticket count with no decrease in average value per ticket.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And that's a potential major positive as you're looking to 2012? We hope it plays out that way.
Inc.</strong> On the cash outside $43 million into the pension this quarter.
How much of that was due to change in discount rate 2010 to 2011 from last December? And potentially what -- how should we think about this directionally looking into 2012? Brian we take into consideration all the assumptions that you have to in making a contribution to the pension plan.
It is our plans and our intent to keep that pension plan 90% fully funded and meet all of those obligations.
We'll just have to wait and see where the market goes and what the assumptions that the actuaries come in with but our expectation now is that we will make another contribution in 2012 a similar size.
Inc.</strong> And sort of -- if I'm thinking about the $43 million that's what you're basically going to be putting in for the entire year or should we assume another contribution in the fourth quarter here? No.
At this point there shouldn't be another contribution in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if I may ask one more you talked about the breadth of strength on the Industrial side.
Any indication anecdotally that you won't necessarily see that 9 to 10 top industries performing at that same rate for the fourth quarter? Or should we just continue to see the same breadth across the industry? Well I think we'll see strength across all of the businesses.
And by the way the one industry that was not up double digit was up just over 9% and I think we'll see some similar consistency across the industries.
I don't know how long we can generate 20%-plus increases across top industries top customers top product categories.
But we don't have any indication right now of any slowdown in demand for our Industrial business.
One of the things that we try to stay abreast of our project work that our customers are planning to do.
We get 2 types of demands.
We get immediate demand when a piece of equipment is down and it needs a component to get it back up and then we also get some planned preventive maintenance.
And on those usually the customer will confer with us in advance to make sure we'll have the appropriate items that they're going to need for that maintenance.
And in terms of that project work we haven't seen any moderation in the backlog on those to this point and that gives us a little confidence as well that our business should hold up comparatively well as we work our way over the next quarter or 2.
Your next question comes from Michael Ward with Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> Just first off I may have missed this but did you give a breakdown on the performance on the Automotive side the professional versus the cash? If we look at the total commercial in our company store group it was up 8%.
AutoCare and major accounts combined for a little over 10% increase.
Our fleet business was up 5% and then if we look at our total commercial category which would include fleet and include -- or if we take fleet out I should say it would include major account and AutoCare as well as other accounts they were up low double digit.
Research Division</strong> Double digit okay.
And the -- I'm sorry did you say Retails business? Retail was up 2% after being up 3/10 of 1% in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a follow on the Exego transaction I'm just curious at what drove the transaction? Is it the structure of the market or is it the growth in Asia? I mean historically this is kind of your first investment outside of North America is that right? Well no.
If we go back to the mid-70s we actually made an investment in Europe but this would be the only thing we've done outside of that since the mid-70s.
We've known the people at Exego and its predecessor company for over 20 years.
About 2.5 years ago the CEO of that company was going to be in the U.S.
visiting with automotive companies and they asked if he could come by and visit with Genuine Parts Company.
We said certainly.
And we had a chance to kind of reconnect with the company.
We even though we've known them for over 20 years we've not had much contact prior to about 2.5 years ago for maybe the 3 or 4 years prior.
Since that initial visit we've had several additional visits with the CEO.
And then as things really started to look like there might be something that could be good for their shareholders and our shareholders we've had teams of people meeting here and there looking at opportunities and looking at what it could mean.
So we see a lot of commonality in the 2 businesses.
We see some growth opportunities in our home markets and the projected growth rates for Australia and New Zealand are a bit stronger than the projected growth rates for North America.
And then we also see the larger growth rates potentially in some of the Southeast Asian markets that Exego probably would be the right platform to use for expansion into those markets.
This does not at all signal any less confidence than what we've had in our North American business and we'll continue to I think do the kind of job that we have been doing.
In fact it's a vote of confidence for our Automotive management team that we feel that we can make this move and at the same time count on our North American team to continue to do the good job they've been doing.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] Does that explain it Mike? Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
I really appreciate that.
We have time for one last question.
Your next question comes from Michael Montani with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was going to ask about obviously the business is operating now with a lot of momentum.
And just hoping that you could share some insight Tom when you go back to Q3 and Q4 of '08 it seems like a challenge where at that time in Q3 Industrial is running up 7 but then went flat in the fourth quarter and there's obviously some unique things that happened then.
But if you think now about what you're hearing maybe specifically be it from volumes or from order backlog standpoint can you just provide sort of an update on how this is different? Well we don't see -- in the marketplace we don't see any indication yet of any material slowdown.
We don't see it in the data and we don't see it in the marketplace.
We started to see it in the data in the fourth quarter of '08 and we certainly were experiencing it in the marketplace.
And it was as I recall the second week on October of 2008 that we saw a dramatic drop off in demand in the Industrial side.
We don't see anything that would indicate that that type of drop off is out there.
And in fact we don't see a drop-off at this point.
So our sense is that we should be performing at reasonable levels at least through the end of this year and on into the early part of next year and then we'll just have to moderate what's going on and see how we react to whatever may happen but there's no indication of a slowdown at this point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as it relates to municipalities and state budgets we have had some concerns more macro related to those areas.
Can you speak at all to the trends you're seeing from those customer segments? And is there any color you can provide in terms of how significant they are? Obviously in areas like office or fleet and auto I would think there's some exposure there.
Well if we look at what those customer sets are going through obviously they're under a lot of pressure.
So they're going to be looking for the lowest viable cost for any of the product that they might buy from our Automotive business for sure the heavy duty side of it as well with some of the fleets that they run.
So we can see some downward pressure there.
At the same time there's some significant reductions in headcount that are being forced upon those customer sets some of which may come in areas that we deal with that might in fact moderate some of the downward pressure and maybe we can provide more service or better value for them rather than them doing it themselves.
The offset is that they're reducing headcount across their offices as well and that has an impact on our customer base.
We don't sell to any of these people directly but our customer set does and demands for them would be off some.
So I think it will be perhaps neutral for us on the Automotive side but somewhat negative on the Office Products side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And the last question that I had was just as it relates to price.
With the guidance of sales as sort of 7% to 9% top line is it fair to think of that as perhaps 2% to 3% of price and then volume 5% to 6% just given what we saw in this quarter or how would you frame that? I think that's a fair assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So perhaps we might have seen sort of a peak of inflationary cost into you at this point or is that...
We don't see much happening in the fourth quarter but we do know that in the first quarter of next year we will see some more price increases across some of the businesses.
But we don't think they're going to be extraordinarily high at this point.
Your next question comes from Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> On the Industrial segment are there any particular competitors that you're finding that you're displacing in any particular segments of that group? No those things ebb and flow.
We win some we lose some and sometimes we win from one and sometimes we lose to one.
So I think it's fairly constant and fairly normal to what we've experienced in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are there any particular subsectors in Industrial that stand out in your mind as being stronger than others at this point? Well for sure as we said 9 of our top 10 industry categories are running up double digit.
The one that's not double digit is up 9% but we've got some really strong things happening in some of the energy-related businesses some of the infrastructure-type businesses that we're seeing a little bit of positive right now.
Anything related to housing is not very strong for us but the remaining businesses overall are performing at a pretty high level historically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So mostly energy and infrastructure comes to mind? Some of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right...
Anything -- I might mention anything some of the original equipment manufacturers are doing quite well and we're benefiting and enjoying some of that success as well.
Automotive is good right now because it's coming back off of lower levels from prior years.
So it's pretty much across the categories with the exception of housing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
On the acquisition of or future acquisition of Exego the 3 players down there Autobarn Repco.
which is owned by Exego and Supercheap.
Repco has come from behind a little bit in terms of its customer satisfaction down there.
Autobarn has consistently led the group.
In the metrics that you're assuming or that are part of the deal for the rest of the acquisition of that group is part of that based on CSI improvement? And if so how do you think that they could go about gaining a little bit better on customer satisfaction? Well it's our future acquisition of the 70% will be indirectly tied to CSI improvement because it's based on earnings.
And earnings are going to be driven by improved revenue growth and that's going to happen because of improved customer satisfaction perhaps.
I'd rather not get into the specifics as to what some of the initiatives are.
But I would say to you that some of the things that collectively we and the Exego/Repco management team have talked about as areas of opportunity are being implemented now.
And the early results would indicate that we're probably on the right path with some of the things that we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Is the way that the market works down there is it similar to what you do up here in North America in terms of you have a delivery vehicle that goes out makes a milk run to various parts or garages does that kind of delivery go on also in Australia? Does that kind of service level exist? Yes.
It's not a milk run though it's hot shot delivery.
We here and there you've got to able to get a part to your customer within 20 to 30 minutes or there are other options for them.
So our emphasis is on making sure that we give that kind of delivery service consistently day in and day out week-after-week both here and there.
I will now turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you Brooke.
We thank each of you for joining us today.
We appreciate that and we appreciate your continued interest in and support of Genuine Parts Company.
We look forward to talking to you in the future.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jodie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Carol Yancey Senior Vice President of Finance.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts fourth quarter conference call to discuss our earnings results and the outlook for 2012.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
As we normally do Jerry Nix our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and I will share the duties today.
And once we've concluded our planned comments we will look forward to answering any questions that you may have.
And we're pleased to tell you that we look forward to having Paul Donahue GPC's recently-elected President joining us on our April conference call.
Now earlier this morning we released our fourth quarter and year-end 2011 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $3 014 000 000 which was up 7%.
Net income was $135 million which was up 14% and earnings per share were $0.86 this year compared to $0.75 in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the EPS increase was 15%.
And this enabled us to end 2011 with sales of $12 459 000 000 which was up 11%.
Net income was $565.1 million which was up 19% and earnings per share were $3.58 this year compared to $3 last year and that's an EPS increase of 19%.
Now we did see some moderation on our fourth quarter revenue growth and our 7% increase in the quarter was our lowest of the year.
However it is in line with the guidance that we provided at the end of Q3 and it is also on top of a 14% increase in the fourth quarter of 2010 which was our strongest quarterly performance of 2010.
It's important to say that we continue to feel good about the progress that we're making on the revenue side.
And then we were pleased to be up 15% in earnings per share in the quarter especially on top of a 21% EPS increase in the fourth quarter of 2010.
These are solid results in our opinion and as the full year -- as are the full year increases and our 2011 results follow a very similar performance in 2010 when sales were up 11% net income was up 19% and earnings per share were up 20%.
So back-to-back good years from our perspective and we entered 2012 with some positive momentum.
A review of the revenue results by business segment shows that our industrial-related businesses continue to produce the strongest performances.
Motion Industries our industrial distribution group; and EIS our Electrical/Electronic business were up 13% and 10% respectively in the quarter and they were up 19% and 24% respectively for the year.
In Motion's case the 19% increase for the year follows a 22% increase in 2010.
Acquisitions added 2% to the quarterly increase and 3% to the year-to-date results so you can see that the underlying industrial business remains solid.
And as has been the case for some time now these strong results are widespread across the business as evidenced by the fact that every geographic area was up double digits for the year.
Additionally our top 10 product categories had double-digit increases.
Our top 10 industry segments were up strong double digits as a group and our top 20 customers were up over 20% on a combined basis.
So the good results were broad-based and they were quite consistent from a product customer industry segment and geographic perspective and we're pleased with the overall sales strength and the balance that we see in our industrial business.
Moving onto the Electrical/Electronic segment at plus 24% for the year they obviously turned in another strong sales performance.
Acquisitions added 7% to the quarterly increase and 11% for the year.
And similar to the industrial operations EIS enjoyed strong results in a number of different areas as evidenced by the fact that their top 25 customers were up over 20% for the year and they were up 19% with their top 20 vendors.
Additionally every geographic area posted a double-digit increase.
So both Motion and EIS turned in strong results this past year and at the current levels of industrial production and manufacturing capacity utilization indices as well as the ISM Purchasing Managers Index we are entering 2012 under generally favorable conditions for each of these businesses.
Moving on to Office Products.
This is the one part of our business that continues to face the most challenging situation.
Office Products revenues were down 1% in the fourth quarter.
This follows 4 consecutive quarters of increases but in looking back over the year we did experience a decelerating sales pattern as the year progressed.
After being up 5% in the first quarter we were up 4% in the second 3% in the third and then down 1% in the fourth.
Now we were pleased to end the year up 3%.
But in looking at industry-wide results it's clear that overall demand has softened pretty significantly over the latter part of the year.
And looking a bit deeper into the numbers our business with the independent office products resellers was flat in the fourth quarter but we were pleased to see this group end the year with a bit single-digit increase.
Our Mega Channel business was down again in Q4 and it was down low-double digits for the full year.
On the product side office supplies technology products and furniture had modest declines in the fourth quarter.
But for the year technology products and office supplies had low-single digit increases while furniture was flat.
Cleaning and break room supplies enjoyed low-double digit increases both in the quarter and for the year so good progress continues to be made in this category.
But from an overall perspective conditions in the office products industry remain challenging and we expect demand to remain subdued for the foreseeable future.
And finally a few comments on Automotive.
This is our largest segment and they ended the fourth quarter up 6%.
This follows 4 consecutive quarters of 9% increases so our Automotive operations have been performing well for us for a period of time now and they were up 8% for the full year.
It's interesting to note that these quarterly and full year results are essentially same-store sales increases which we feel demonstrates the solid progress being made by our Automotive management team.
And looking a little deeper into the results of our company-owned store group we see that our commercial business continues to outperform our retail business and this has been the case all year long.
In looking at our retail business first we find that our average ticket value is actually up over the prior year but the number of retail tickets is down and we ended the quarter and the year with retail being up 1%.
On the commercial side both ticket counts and ticket values were up and we ended the quarter up 6% and up 8% for the year with both NAPA AutoCare and major accounts each finishing the year up low-double digits.
This is back-to-back double digit increases in these 2 important commercial initiatives which shows the good steady progress being made in each of these areas.
Our fleet business was up 4% in the quarter and up 5% for the year.
So when we put it all together we feel good about the progress being made by our Automotive management team.
We recognize that we have some work to do yet on the retail side of the business but the commercial results remain solid.
And following the Automotive segment's 7% increase in 2010 we feel that the 8% increase in 2011 demonstrates the good job being done by the Automotive managers and we enter 2012 with a degree of optimism about their prospects in the year ahead.
And then one final comment on the Automotive segment is that we did complete our investment in Exego on January 1.
You will recall that Exego was the leading automotive distribution company in Australia and New Zealand with revenues of just over $1 billion.
We paid approximately $150 million for a 30% ownership position with the option to purchase the remaining 70% at one point in the next 2 to 3 years.
We feel that this is a significant strategic move for us and we will account for the 30% ownership position as minority interest on our income statement.
So that's a quick overview of the revenue performance by business segment.
And at this time we'll ask Jerry to cover the financial results.
Jerry? Thank you Tom.
Good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
We'll first review the income statement and segment information then touch on a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up for your questions.
A review of the income statement shows the following: our sales results were strong throughout 2011 and total sales for the fourth quarter were up 7% to $3.0 billion.
For the full year we produced record revenues of $12.5 billion which represents an 11% increase from 2010.
We're proud of this accomplishment and especially pleased that all 4 of our business segments contributed to our growth for the year.
Additionally 2011 marked our 60th year of sales increases over the last 62 years.
This is the kind of steady and consistent growth we look for in our businesses and we're excited about the opportunity to improve on this record again in 2012 and beyond.
Gross profit in the fourth quarter is 29.6% of sales.
That's up sequentially from 28.9% in the third quarter and up 50 basis points from 29.1% in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
For the full year gross margin was also flat at 28.9% compared to 29.0% in 2010.
Achieving this level of gross margin for the year reflects pretty solid progress over the last few quarters.
As we turn to 2012 we'll continue to execute our ongoing buy- and sell-side initiatives to effectively manage supply chain costs increase distribution efficiencies and maximize our pricing potential.
This will be necessary to offset the impact of continued competitive pricing pressures and changes in product and customer sales mix across our businesses.
Regardless further progress in this area remains a high priority for us again for 2012 and our management team is very aware of and focused on this goal.
For the year our cumulative price which represents vendor supplier increases to us we were plus 2.6% in Automotive plus 4.1% in Industrial plus 1.6% in Office Products and plus 5.3% in Electrical.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Total expenses of $682 million were up 8.2% in the fourth quarter and were relatively flat at 22.6% of sales versus 22.5% in 2010 due to our solid operating performance in the quarter.
We're facing a very tough comp on this line in the fourth quarter and in addition our cost of incentive-based compensation and related benefits were higher than originally forecasted due to our better-than-expected results.
For the full year SG&amp;A of $2.7 billion was 21.8% of sales.
That's a 40 basis point improvement from 22.2% in the prior year.
We're pleased to show continued improvement in controlling our expenses as a percentage of sales again in 2011 as we had made tremendous improvement in this area in 2010.
We attribute this progress to the combined benefits of greater leverage associated with our sales growth and ongoing measures to control costs.
For the last few years we benefited from cost-saving initiatives in areas such as freight utilities and warehouse and infrastructure costs among others.
We estimate that savings in these areas added to slightly more than $30 million in 2011.
In addition after reducing our headcount by approximately 12% in '08 and '09 we've added back just 2% of our labor force including acquisitions over the last 2 years.
This is a pretty good testament to the hard work of our entire organization to effectively control costs as well as the positive impact of our investments in technology over the last several years.
These efforts have been meaningful to our overall results and we understand that we must remain focused in these areas as we move forward in 2012.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
Automotive had revenue in the fourth quarter of $1 460 200 000 that's up 6% and had operating profit of $89.9 million up 9% so nice margin expansion from 6.0% to 6.2% of revenue.
The Industrial Group had sales in the quarter of $1 032 700 000 that's up 13% and had operating profit of $89.1 million up 21% so very strong margin expansion from 8.1% to 8.6%.
Office Products had revenue in the quarter of $391.4 million.
That's down 1%.
Operating profit of $38.1 million was flat so they had slight margin enhancement to 9.7% from 9.6%.
Electrical Group had revenue in the quarter of $137.6 million and that's up 10%.
Operating profit of $10.3 million up 17.5% so nice expansion there from 7.0% to 7.5%.
Looking at the full year.
Automotive had revenue of $6.1 billion and that represents 49% of the total and an increase of 8% had operating profit for the year $467.8 million up 11% so again nice margin improvement of 7.5% to 7.7%.
Industrial Group had revenue for the full year of $4.2 billion representing 33% of the total.
That was up 18.5%.
It had operating profit of $337.6 million up 32% so very strong margin expansion from 7.3% to 8.1% of revenue.
Office Products had revenue for the full year of $1.7 billion representing 14% of the total up 3%.
Operating profit of $134.1 million up 2%.
So we had slight decline in margin but still very strong at 7.9%.
Electrical Group for the year had revenue of $557.5 million represents 4% of the total and that's up 24%.
Operating profit of $40.7 million up 32% so very strong margin expansion of 6.9% to 7.3%.
Total operating profit increased by 12% in the fourth quarter and operating profit margin improved 30 basis points to 7.5% from 7.2% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This increase was driven primarily by the improvement in our gross margin for the quarter.
For the year total operating profit increased 17%.
Operating margin was up 40 basis points to 7.9%.
The solid progress we made in 2011 is due to improved expense leverage associated with our sales growth as well as our measures to control costs noted earlier.
We're encouraged by this level of progress and optimistic for further improvement in 2012.
We had net interest expense $5.6 million in the fourth quarter $24.6 million for the year and both are down slightly from 2010 due to our new debt agreement which was signed in November and carried a lower interest rate.
We'll discuss our debt position later but we expect our net interest expense to decrease to approximately $20 million to $22 million for 2012.
Other category which includes corporate expense amortization of intangibles and noncontrolling interest was an $11.6-million expense in the fourth quarter and $64.8 million for the year.
The $1.9-million increase in the fourth quarter reflects the higher expenses for incentive-based compensation and related benefits that were discussed earlier as well as certain other items such as insurance legal and professional costs.
As we look ahead to 2012 we currently project the total other category to remain in the $60-million to $70-million range.
This assumes consistent levels of incentive-based compensation which we would expect to incur with normalized levels of growth.
For the fourth quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.8% compared to 36.3% in the fourth quarter in 2010.
For the year tax rate is 36.6% compared to 37.6% for the prior year.
Decrease in the rate for the year is primarily related to favorable adjustments recorded in the first quarter of 2011 that were associated with the expiration of the statute of limitations related to international taxes.
Currently we expect a tax rate for 2012 of approximately 36.5% to 37.0%.
Net income for the quarter $135.0 million.
That's up 14% and EPS grew 15% to $0.86 compared to $0.75 last year.
For the year net income $565 million up 19%; EPS of $3.58 compared to $3 in 2010 and that's also an increase of 19%.
We're very proud of our associates at Genuine Parts Company for helping us achieve record earnings in 2011.
Now let's touch base on a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at December 31 of $525 million is relatively consistent with cash at December 31 2010.
Our strong cash position was supported by the increase in earnings effective asset management and cost reductions.
We continue to use our cash to fund several ongoing priorities such as the increase in the dividend capital expenditures acquisitions and share repurchases which we'll discuss in more detail later.
We also used $58 million in 2011 to fund our pension plans as required from time to time.
Accounts receivable $1.46 billion at December 31 increased 7% from 2010 which is relatively in line with our sales increase for the fourth quarter.
Our goal at GPC remains to grow receivables at a rate less than revenue growth and we feel we made good progress toward this goal over the last half of 2011.
We'll continue to emphasize improvement in this area and we remain satisfied with the quality of our receivables.
Inventory at 12/31/2011 was $2.26 billion and that's up less than 2% or approximately $37 million from December 31 2010.
In consideration of our 11% sales growth for the year as well as inventory from acquisitions we believe our management team managed this key investment very well again in 2011.
We remain focused on further improving our inventory levels in 2012.
Accounts payable balance at December 31 $1.44 billion which is up 5% from December 31 in the prior year.
Primarily the increase in trade payables in 2011 reflects the impact of increased inventory purchases associated with our higher sales volume.
In addition you may recall we have successfully negotiated extended payment terms and implemented other payable initiatives with our vendors to improve our payables position over the last couple of years.
As a result our DPO improved in each of the last few years and we remain pleased with the positive direction of this working capital category.
As reported working capital of $2.8 billion at December 31 is up 13% from 2010.
But after adding back the $250-million current portion of the debt at December 31 2010 the comparable increase is only 3%.
So working capital is relatively consistent with the prior year and we are encouraged with our ongoing progress in managing our working capital in 2011.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition as we move forward into the new year.
Total debt at December 31 2011 remains unchanged at $500 million although it's certainly worth noting that we signed a new agreement in 2011 extending the $250-million credit facility which matured in November of 2011.
The new 5-year debt agreement carried a 3.35% interest rate and is now classified as long-term on the December 31 balance sheet.
The second $250 million in debt is due in November of 2013.
Total debt to total capitalization at December 31 15.2% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at the current time.
We generated solid cash flows again in 2011 with cash from operations totaling approximately $625 million and free cash flow after deducting CapEx and dividends of approximately $245 million.
Although slightly below the level we had projected for the year we are pleased with the continued strength of our cash flows and remain committed to our ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
These priorities are: first the dividend which we'd paid every year since going public in 1948 we've raised now for 56 consecutive years.
Effectively yesterday's board approval of a 10% increase in the company's annual dividend for 2012 to $1.98 per share from $1.80 per share paid in 2011.
The new dividend represents approximately 55% of our 2011 earnings per share and currently yields about 3%.
This is our second consecutive year to raise the dividend by 10% and over the last 5 years we've grown the dividend by a compounded annual growth rate of 6.3%.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of the 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures were $39 million for the fourth quarter up from $26 million invested in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
For the full year CapEx was $103 million compared to $85 million in 2010.
Increase in our CapEx spending was in line with our investment plans for 2011 and we currently expect our CapEx spending to increase further in 2012 to approximately $110 million to $125 million for the full year.
The vast majority of these investments will continue to be weighted toward productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation amortization $22 million in the quarter and $89 million for the year is consistent with this expense in 2010.
We expect D&amp;A to be approximately $90 million to $100 million in 2012.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing important use of our cash and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
In 2011 we completed 3 acquisitions at Motion Industries including Dayton Tool &amp; Supply (sic) [Dayton Supply &amp; Tool] and D.P.
Brown in January Terin [ph] Hydraulics in July.
At EIS we acquired Cobra Wire &amp; Cable in September.
Combined annual revenues for these acquired companies totaled approximately $125 million.
These new businesses had a positive impact on the Industrial and Electrical segments in 2011 and we believe they will contribute nicely to our results in 2012 as well.
You can see that between these strategic bolt-on type acquisitions and the investment in Australia's Exego as Tom mentioned earlier which was effective January 1 of 2012 we continue to find opportunities for acquisitions.
We anticipate additional opportunities for acquisitions in 2012 and we'll remain disciplined in our approach to this element of our growth strategy generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25-million to $125-million range although we've proven there are certainly exceptions to this rule.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 175 000 shares of our company's stock on the company share repurchase program.
For the year we purchased approximately 2.4 million shares and today we have approximately 13.5 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we expect to remain active in the program as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
In closing I want to thank all of the dedicated GPC associates for their hard work and dedication to the success of the company.
We are very pleased with our fourth quarter and full year performance.
2011 was highlighted by double-digit sales and earnings growth which were also record sales and earnings.
We enter the new year committed to growing sales and earnings generating solid cash flows and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
We're very proud of the many good things going on throughout our organization and also optimistic that we can carry our positive momentum into 2012 and beyond.
And that concludes the financial review so I'll turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Jerry.
Well that's an overview of our fourth quarter and 2011 results and we're proud of the job that was done by the GPC team this past year and we thank them for their efforts.
As we turn our attention to 2012 we're cautiously optimistic.
We are pleased to be coming off 2 good years in 2010 and 2011 and we feel that we have a bit of positive momentum.
And the underlying fundamentals continue to be encouraging in 3 of our 4 businesses.
At the same time however we see that gasoline prices remain at near historical highs with the threat of going higher in the months ahead.
This could have a direct effect on our Automotive business.
Additionally the higher fuel costs could impact consumer spending which will indirectly affect end market demand in our Industrial and Electrical businesses.
And as mentioned earlier our expectation is for sluggish demand in Office Products for several quarters yet.
So with all of that said our preliminary expectations are for 2012 revenue growth in the 6% to 8% range with Automotive being up 5% to 7% Industrial up 8% to 10% Electrical/Electronic up 8% to 10% and Office Products up 1% to 3%.
And with top line growth at these levels we would anticipate earnings growth of 8% to 12% which would give us an earnings per share range of $3.85 to $4 and we look forward to refining these numbers further as we progress through the year.
So that will conclude our planned comments this morning.
And at this point we'll turn the call back to Jodie and then take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you -- first on the Auto side there has been talk of some weather impact in December and it sounds like some of your peers saw some acceleration to start the year as perhaps they lapped some tough weather trends from January of a year ago.
Is that something that you are seeing in your business as well? Well we were affected to a degree by the weather in the fourth quarter.
And as we've said many times before we don't like to use that as any excuse for performance.
We're proud of the job that was done by our team in the fourth quarter even with the weather consideration.
We would expect our first quarter revenues to be up at least in line with fourth quarter revenue or maybe just a little bit better.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then also on the top line side in the Industrial business is there a change in the complexion of the types of products that are being bought? It sounded like previously perhaps it was more a maintenance product that people are buying for production purposes.
Are you seeing more of a capital-type investment from your customers? Or is it the same? I think the project work which is driven by the CapEx through our customer segment -- the project work is pretty consistent and has been for the last few quarters so we're pleased with that.
We use that as a little bit of an internal leading indicator.
So at this point we think the project work will stay relatively steady through the first half of the year and we're optimistic about what the Industrial Group can do over the first half of this year.
Research Division</strong> And then finally on the gross margin side did vendor or catalog allowances come into play in the fourth quarter? I know last year you had actually had a tough compare on the allowance side.
So I was just curious how that set up and if that ended up helping your gross margin overall.
Chris we did see a slight improvement in the incentives that we got versus the prior year.
We didn't get as much in the LIFO as we had gotten in the prior year so it was a number of factors that go into the improvement in the gross margin in the fourth quarter.
I would be misleading you if I were to attribute all of that to higher volume incentives.
They're just a number -- we've got some pricing software we're using as well as parsing better I think so -- but yes we saw some slight improvement in the vendor incentives.
We've gotten those incentives back up to about where they were prior to the recession.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First question.
As we think about the mix within each of your 4 business lines Industrial Office EIS and Auto and as the economy theoretically recovers over the next year to 3 years here and your business sort of naturally has some lifting I'm just curious.
Traditionally have you seen sort of a richening of mix meaning the products that you're selling into that kind of economic recovery might carry higher margins? Or is it something that's pretty consistent and you just get good operating leverage off the higher sales base? I'm just trying to understand mix versus operating leverage as the economy hopefully recovers here.
John I think that we might see some incremental benefit from product mix going forward.
One of the things that we've seen for the past few years has been the downward pressure on pricing and it's caused people to move down the value chain in terms of the products they're selecting.
And it's also had an impact on related sales and we're not selling as many of the related items in some of the businesses that we might sell in an improving economy.
So I think we potentially could benefit from that if the economy stays healthy going forward.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry Tom that would be most acute in the Auto business? Or would that be across all businesses? It's more -- I think it'd be more pronounced in Automotive and in Office Products and to a lesser degree in the other 2 industrial-related businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second question.
You alluded to pricing a number of times here.
I'm just curious what you're seeing from a competitive set there versus what you're seeing on the cost side because it sounds like you're getting some cost increases from your vendors but it doesn't sound like the pass-through has been that great.
I'm just curious what the competitive environment is for pricing that you're seeing in the 4 segments if it's continuing to get tougher.
It sounds like it.
No I wouldn't suggest it's getting tougher but I would say it's been pretty consistent for a period of time now.
It's competitive in all 4 of the businesses.
I don't think it's any more pronounced today than it has been and we don't expect it to get any better at least in the near term.
We are having some benefit on the purchase side of it the buy side of it and the margin improvement we're getting is somewhat attributable to buy-side improvement but also attributable to just doing a little better job ourselves in how we're setting resale prices.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly as we look at the op margin improvement it's been pretty good in the last 2 years but it's still light versus where you guys have been historically at sort of 9% to 10% on op margin.
I mean is there anything structurally that as we step forward over the next couple of years that you think would limit your ability to get back to that 9% to 10% range? Or is this really a function of where we are in the business cycle? John I think it's more of a function of where we are in the business cycle but I would also tell you that our target is continue to get 10 to 20 basis points improvement in our operating margin each year but that's going to be driven a lot by this gross margin issue that we talked about earlier and we seem to have turned the corner there in the last couple of quarters so we'll have to continue to show a gross margin expansion.
If we do that then we'll continue to show some improvement.
But the marketplace as Tom mentioned remains very competitive and for us to get back to those operating margins 10 years or so ago is probably not in the works.
But John I'd add to that our near-term goals and objectives have been to get the operating margins back to 8% to 8.5%.
We were up 50 basis points in 2010 40 basis points in 2011 and operating margin of 7.9%.
So we're approaching the bottom end of that target range.
Our expectation is that we'll cross into the 8% to 8.5% in 2012 and then as Jerry said we'll be looking for 10- to 20-basis-point improvement on a consistent basis going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one just last question on the working capital Jerry.
You guys did a great job of growing working capital just 3% I mean less than half of what sales grew.
I mean is that something we should expect is something on the working capital side that is a lot slower than what you're seeing on the sales line which is a good thing obviously? Yes I think so.
That's a major initiative we have and we've done a great job in a couple of categories in the last few years of payables and inventory.
We haven't done as good a job in receivables as we should have but we've got a number of initiatives going forward.
So yes I think you'll continue to see it growing at a rate less than sales certainly.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich from ISI.
Research Division</strong> On the Office Products the deceleration Tom that you mentioned through the course of the year is that just a demand end-through or pull-through that you're seeing? Or are you seeing that some of the Mega guys in particular maybe bring some SKUs back to help run their warehouses a bit better? Or is that sort of a like-for-like? No I think it'd be more the former than the latter.
And it seems at this point we're waiting and over the next 2 weeks we're going to get some additional insight as some of the other publicly traded companies report.
But at this point it does seem that demand decelerated really over the second half of the year more so than the first half.
And it also seems that the public sector is where we saw more deceleration than in the private sector quite honestly.
So that -- and we're getting that anecdotally from our customer base but that's where they're seeing more contraction in demand than in the rest of their customer set.
Research Division</strong> That's great helpful.
And then second Jerry the SG&amp;A obviously had some nice control and you went through some of the measures you've done the last 3 years to really get there.
But in the fourth quarter it did tick up quite a bit.
Was there anything unusual about the fourth quarter? Or you think you've just sort of reached the point that sales end up growing at this sort of 7% rate that it's just going to be impossible or near impossible to leverage SG&amp;A? Greg you're starting to sound like one of our operators now.
Certainly that's not the case at 7% growth that we can't make SG&amp;A improvement.
It was really we had underestimated accrual for the compensation and the good year that we had overall and there were a couple of benefit items that we had to catch up on in there as well.
But no we can continue to make improvement in the SG&amp;A side.
And Greg I'd just add that I think the guidance we provided earlier would indicate that when we said that we thought the revenues will be up 6% to 8% but the earnings will be up 8% to 12%.
Research Division</strong> So SG&amp;A is part of that.
It's not just gross margin bending gross margins you would say.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly in your guidance you gave the price that you saw this year.
And I guess as you go forward and think about 2012 what sort of inflation do you expect to see? Do you expect to see better worse? And maybe by categories if you can.
We're a little bit early in the year to be making categorical statements.
But at this point our expectation is that price increases in each of the 4 businesses will be roughly in line with what we saw in 2011.
We need a few more months to be able to tighten that up some.
But Jerry gave those impacts earlier and we're planning for about the same.
There may be some variance from one to the other but in total they'll be pretty close.
Greg just clarification about the same increase not the same level for pricing.
But it's about the same percentage increase.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know you've kind of given us an outline of expectations by segment but when you kind of look at the business and kind of the structural drivers in each one if you had to kind of pick a business that had the biggest upside and which one had the biggest risk how should we think about that at this stage? Well I'd say the industrial-related businesses have some upside.
At the same time if we see something happen that is negatively impactful on the economy there's some downside risk there obviously.
But I think there is some upside in the industrial-related businesses.
And if we had to force rank them we'd say that there's probably a little bit of downside risk in Office Products only because our expectation is that the first half of the year is going to be a little bit more challenging than the back half of the year.
And we're hoping that our planning for the back half of the year comes to fruition and proves accurate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then it sounds like Motion is experiencing basically strength across the board as you indicated.
Are there any verticals at all not humming along for those guys? Or is it really just every single major vertical that they're servicing that yet you're seeing very strong sales growth? We still see sluggishness in anything that's related to construction.
But all of the others remain very very positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question regarding NAPA and this is just kind of an industry question for your peers as well.
But if we were to start to get a meaningful rebound in the SAAR like we've started to see in terms of new car sales how do you think that impacts your NAPA business given your longevity in that industry and obviously all the data you've collected over time? Well first we'd like to say that we hope we do see some rebound in the SAARs.
We think that's long-term positive for the industry.
We don't think there's any material near-term impact if we do in fact experience that.
We've still got a long way to go as you know to get back to the 16 million 17 million vehicles that were sold back a few years ago.
It's an interesting thing right now.
We're at a point in time where approaching 3/4 of the vehicles that are on the road today are out of warranty.
And while we will see let's say 14 2 14 5 in new vehicle sales this year that's still going to leave a huge number of vehicles that are out of warranty and need to come into the aftermarket for repair and they continue to age.
The average age is 10.6 years today and it's going to continue to go up from all projections we see for the foreseeable future.
So we'd like to see new car sales rebound and continue to improve.
But at the same time we think the impact will be minimal if anything at all.
And the next couple of years -- if the economy holds the next couple of years should be pretty good ones for the aftermarket.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the Office Products side you talked a little bit about some of the top line trends in that division I think public versus private customers.
I was curious what perhaps you are seeing in terms of megas versus independents.
And then also on Office I noticed that the margins were the strongest in 4Q that they've been in several years despite the softer top line trend.
Perhaps you could comment on that as well.
In terms of the difference between the megas and the independents we ended the year up mid-single digits with the independent office products reseller and they had a pretty good year over the course of the year.
But if we look at it sequentially they too experienced some moderation in growth as the year progressed primarily in the last 2 quarters.
If we look at the Mega Channel we were down low-double digits for the full year.
So these are fairly consistent with what we saw in 2010 and we haven't seen any material change over the last 2 years.
As far as the margin I think we did a good job on the SG&amp;A.
We did in fact have a little improvement in our gross profit there.
And regrettably they did not hit their objectives from an incentive-based pay standpoint so the impact of them was not as favorable as it was on the rest of the business.
I'd also point out Ryan that Office Products' operating margins were over 9% leading up to the recession.
And in '08 and '09 they started to decline and it's a matter of getting their expenses under control with the top line growth that they have but they had a nice fourth quarter from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Can I just ask 2 real quick about how you think about the operating margin performance of your different divisions as we head into 2012? For example how do you think about incremental EBIT margins at your respective divisions? In 2011 the incremental margins at Industrial and at Electrical were significantly higher than the EBIT margin overall for those different divisions.
I assume that's because of a lot of vendor rebate recapture.
As we go into 2012 and you've guided to a little bit slower top line growth for those 2 different divisions should we continue -- should we expect to see continued very strong EBIT incremental? Or do you think that those could moderate a little bit next year? I'll try to answer that question in a couple of different ways.
First of all the margin improvement that we saw in Industrial was partly attributable to some incentives but largely and primarily attributable to good top line growth; some gross profit management; and also some really good SG&amp;A work.
So if we think about the 4 businesses going forward we're actually planning on incremental margin improvement at all 4 of the businesses.
The degree that we'll get in any one business is going to be somewhat driven by the level of revenue growth that we get.
If in fact we had another strong double-digit increase in Industrial then we'll get significantly more margin improvement there than if we have a low single-digit increase at Office Products.
But for internal planning purposes we're looking for all 4 of the businesses to give us some margin improvement in 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Mario Gabelli from GAMCO Investors.
Inc.</strong> Just a question Tom.
As you're looking out 3 years from now and as we think about your acquisition in Australia how big do you want the Automotive part of your business to be? Or how big could it be outside North America? Well assuming we go through with the option that we have for the remaining 70% that's a business of just over $1 billion.
And that company we hope will grow at high-single to low-double digit growth going forward.
So that'll be our primary international initiative using Exego or Repco as our platform company in Southeast Asia.
So we'd like to see it grow or outgrow or outperform the growth of our North American business but we're also planning for some healthy growth in North America as well.
Inc.</strong> But it's more likely to have that business be a platform for use of the balance sheet than a fourth or fifth leg in the U.S.
I think that's right.
I think that's a fair statement.
We'd like to stay in the 4 businesses we're in look for additional opportunities in North America but also explore what we consider to be good opportunities internationally.
Inc.</strong> Jerry this is just a tax question.
Some of us are modeling in a lower tax rate because the President is going to propose it not that that means that the guys that own the dividends will be helped.
But are you a full cash taxpayer U.S.? Yes we are.
Inc.</strong> So book and cash are almost equal.
That'd be correct.
.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Cristello from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question is when we look at sort of the Automotive side of the business and I know over let's say the last 5-plus years there's always sort of in that target of wanting to get some incremental growth on the company-owned store side but maybe that never transpired to the extent that you wanted.
Can you sort of update us on sort of your growth trajectory where you ended the year on company-owned and how we might think about that business as we move forward? Well we don't break out company-owned and independently-owned specifically Tony.
But I would say that as we go forward our expectation is that the company-owned may grow at a slightly faster rate than the independently-owned and more so because of some expansion initiatives that we have underway.
The last couple of years we have done more consolidating of some stores and to really strengthen the performance of the individual stores.
And I think our same-store sales growth would indicate that we've been reasonably successful in that venture.
But I think at this point we're looking forward to more aggressive company store expansion primarily in the markets we're already in and filling in those existing markets and leveraging off of those management teams.
And over the next couple of years I think that's what we'll see.
Research Division</strong> On the strategy of trying to capture a bit more of the retail sales side where do you think you are in that? And I know your business model is much more heavy on the sort of -- the "do it for me" or the commercial side.
Well I'd say that as you know we're 70% to 75% commercial and 25% to 30% retail.
At 20% to 25% of our total volume we do a fair amount of retail business but we think there's some upside there and we've got a couple of initiatives underway that are very early but are somewhat encouraging.
And we'd like to continue to grow the retail business at a minimum in line with what the overall retail segment is growing but preferably at a rate slightly in excess of that in the years ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one sort of housekeeping issue.
And maybe Jerry when you look at sort of the retirement and other retirement benefit liabilities that numbers appeared to sort of jump a bit.
Is there anything in that number that -- again if I missed your commentary in your prepared remarks I apologize.
No we didn't address it specifically but we do have a concern about where we're going with our pension liability and the pension expense.
That's driven by some assumptions that we really don't have any control over.
We did make a contribution of $57 million to our pension plan last year.
Right now we're looking at a smaller contribution in 2012.
But the pension expense we're projecting an increase on that.
So there is a lot going on in the pension liability pension expense side Tony.
And yes it is a concern and we're going to review every option that we have available to us.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hilgert from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of minor things first.
The depreciation and amortization is going up in 2012 which -- that seems logical given your additional investments in the business.
But I would've expected it to rise a bit more in 2011 versus 2010 instead of declining.
Was there something in there that I didn't catch in the call that -- when you were going through the numbers? No.
We would have probably had some projects that we were amortizing off that disappeared on us and we also would have had some intangibles that would have been included in that number that were fully amortized.
But it should increase you're right as we invest more.
We did squeeze down our CapEx numbers back during the recessionary period and we're building that back up to what we would consider normal maintenance CapEx of around $120 million a year.
And if that's the case then you're going to see our D&amp;A be around $90 million to $100 million.
Research Division</strong> All right okay.
On the working capital you have been doing a great job of keeping that to a minimum especially relative to sales.
The year-over-year change in working capital though there again I would've expected a bit more of a negative number given the receivables change and the investment in inventory.
And when I add up the numbers on the balance sheet I'm coming up with a much larger negative number than what's showing up there just a negative of $25 million.
Can you give us a little bit of detail about what's going on in that line? I'm not sure Richard that I understand exactly where you're going with that but our inventory was only up 2% on an 11% sales increase.
So we did show progress there and our receivables up 7% on a 7% fourth quarter.
Our payables we had an issue with payables.
We were up 5% in payables but we were up 26% in payables at 12/31/2010 because we had a number of vendors that we gave -- got extended terms from in 2010 and that's a onetime boost.
It's a permanent boost but it's onetime and then we've got some others that we're looking to put on our vendor payable program here in 2012.
So I'm not sure if that addresses what your specific question is but we certainly can address that offline.
Research Division</strong> Yes that'd be fine.
I'm just -- I'm referring to the negative $26 million in the cash flow statement in 2011.
When I look at the balance sheet items and sum them all together I'm coming up with a much larger negative number that's all.
Well that negative in that changes in operating assets and liabilities that's inventory payable and receivables and the big swing we had about a $200-million swing in our payables.
Research Division</strong> Right yes exactly.
That's why I'm saying I was thinking it should have been a larger negative than what it turned out...
Well we had improvement in the inventory but we'll take it offline with you.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
The last question I wanted to touch on was the long-term view in the Office Products business.
As you mentioned earlier prior to the great recession you were running high 9% operating margins there.
And we've seen the operating margins erode down into the 7% 6% sometimes range on a quarterly basis.
With the secular change that's going on in that business I'm wondering is pricing such that the cost structure of the business won't align with an operating margin to get to where you had been before? Or is this business long term one that we could see the margins get back into that 9% range? I think it will be a while if at all that we get back in that 9% to 10% range.
But in prior conversations or calls we've said that we did feel that with reasonable top line growth that we could get the operating margins back to the 8.5% range.
So that's our near-term objective is to get them back up to close to 8.5%.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to the presenters for their closing remarks.
Thank you Jodie.
We appreciate each of you joining us on the call today and we appreciate your continued interest in and support of Genuine Parts Company.
We look forward to talking to you in the future.
If not sooner then we'll be -- look forward to visiting with you on our first quarter conference call in April.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jodie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce Ms.
Carol Yancey Senior Vice President of Finance.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts First Quarter Conference Call where we'll discuss our earnings results and the outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time be with us this morning.
As we customarily do Jerry Nix our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of the call.
And we're especially pleased to have Paul Donahue our recently elected Genuine Parts Company President with us as well.
And once Paul Jerry and I have concluded our remarks we will look forward to answering any questions that you may have.
Now earlier this morning we released our first quarter 2012 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3 181 000 000 which was up 7%.
Net income was $146.3 million which was up 16%.
And earnings per share were $0.93 this year compared to $0.80 in the first quarter of 2011 and the EPS increase was also 16%.
So we are pleased that the sales and earnings momentum that we saw throughout 2010 and 2011 continued on into the first quarter of this year.
As a result we feel that we're off to a good start to the year and we look forward to another solid performance from the Genuine Parts team in 2012.
A review of the results by business segment shows that our industrial operations continue to produce the largest increases.
Motion Industries our industrial distribution business was up 12% in the quarter.
This is on top of their 24% increase in the first quarter of last year so it was a tough comparison.
But they handled it well and we continue to feel good about the progress being made by our Industrial operations.
As we look at their numbers in a bit more detail it shows that 11 of their top 12 product categories are running double-digit increases year-to-date.
And as a group these 12 categories are up 15% through the first 3 months.
And Motion had strong results from their top 10 industry segments as well.
As a group these top 10 segments are up 12% through March and this is on top of a combined 30% increase in the first quarter of last year.
The top 20 individual customers have a collective year-to-date increase of 14% and additionally the solid results are consistent across all geographic areas as well.
So from a number of different viewpoints the Industrial business remains strong currently and with the industrial production and capacity utilization indices each continuing to remain at healthy levels and with good execution of their internal growth initiatives we're optimistic about our prospects in the Industrial segment over the next several quarters.
Moving onto the electrical/electronic segment.
EIS was up 5% in the quarter.
This is down from the 10% increase that we reported in the fourth quarter and well off of the full-year 2011 increase of 24% but it's important to note that our first quarter 2011 increase of 39% was our strongest quarter of the year by far.
So it was a tough comparison.
But with that said there has been a moderation in demand for our Electrical/Electronic business over the past 2 quarters.
On the electrical side this is primarily attributable to a slowdown in the Renewable Energy segment.
And on the electronic side it is largely due to a slowdown in the Contract Manufacturing segment.
Our expectation is that these 2 segments of our business will lag the overall business through the first half of the year but they will then start to show a gradual recovery over the remainder of the year.
Importantly the core segments of our Rlectrical business such as Motor Repair and OEM manufacturing are performing well as is the Wire and Cable business.
Additionally our top 25 customers combined for an 11% increase in the quarter which is a solid performance in our opinion and we're also pleased to see that our average daily sales showed good sequential improvement as the quarter progressed which is encouraging as is the fact that the Institute for Supply Management Purchasing Managers Index continues to be well above 50 through March which should indicate favorable overall end market conditions in the quarters ahead.
And as a result we continue to feel good about our prospects for reasonable growth in this business over the remainder of the year.
Moving on to Office Products.
It was another challenging quarter for S.P.
Richards and they ended the first 3 months of the year down 1.5%.
After generating positive results over the first 3 quarters of 2011 we saw a slowdown in demand across the industry during the fourth quarter of 2011 which is now carried over to the first quarter of this year.
And looking at the results by customer segment the Mega Channel actually turned in the strongest performance in the quarter of plus 1% which was good to see but this was offset by a 2% decrease with the independent office products resellers.
On the Products side cleaning and break-room supplies continue to grow at double-digit rates while office supplies and furniture were down slightly and technology products were down mid-single-digit.
So clearly conditions in the office products industry remain challenging and the first quarter results fell a bit short of our expectations.
However while we don't anticipate any significant near-term improvement in the end market conditions we do continue to feel that our Office Products team will end the year with a slight sales increase with the second half performance being a bit stronger than the first half.
So that's a quick recap of the non-automotive segments.
And at this point we'll ask Paul to comment on the automotive operations.
Paul? Thank you Tom and I would add my welcome to each of you and say that I'm pleased to join Tom and Jerry this morning to review the first quarter performance of our Automotive business.
As you may know this is our largest segment.
We ended the first quarter up 6%.
This follows a 6% increase in the fourth quarter and an 8% increase for the full year in 2011.
So our Automotive operations continue to perform well.
We'd like to point out that these results are essentially same-store sales increases and this demonstrates the solid progress being made by our Automotive management team.
Let's begin with the result of company-owned store group.
We can tell you that our commercial business continues to outperform our retail business although we did see a marked improvement in retail this quarter relative to the trend experienced in 2011.
Turning to our retail business first.
The quarter ended up 6%.
This compares to a 1% increase in 2011 and we are encouraged by the strength we saw in our retail business in the first quarter.
On the commercial side the quarter ended up 7% which is fairly consistent with the 8% growth we reported in 2011.
And we're encouraged by the strong and consistent growth in our commercial business.
Our NAPA AutoCare and our major account business showed another quarter of double-digit sales growth and this follows back-to-back years of double-digit increases in these 2 very important commercial initiatives.
The steady progress in each of these businesses continues to drive our overall commercial sales growth.
Our fleet business was up mid-single digits again in the first quarter which is consistent with the growth we saw in this channel all of last year.
The underlying factors for the Automotive aftermarket remain positive.
A bit of an unknown is the impact of fuel cost and while fuel prices were up in the first quarter we've seen the average cost of a gallon of gasoline nationwide has fallen the past 2 weeks.
We've yet to see a significant impact either way but it's a factor that we'll continue to monitor.
So we continue to feel very positive about the progress being made by our Automotive management team and we begin the second quarter of the year optimistic for continued growth.
Lastly we'd like to discuss our acquisition of Quaker City Motor Parts which was announced back on February 28.
Quaker City is a long-standing NAPA distributor and the last non-GPC NAPA member.
They're headquartered in Middletown Delaware and service approximately 270 NAPA parts stores across the mid-Atlantic region of the U.S.
We expect to close on the acquisition May 1 2012 and we're excited about the opportunity this acquisition will produce for the Automotive Parts group.
Quaker City is an important strategic fit and it offers an excellent growth opportunity in the mid-Atlantic area.
They bring with them an experienced and talented management team and we are pleased to bring onboard such a high-quality organization.
So that completes our overview of the Automotive business in the first quarter.
And at this time I'll hand it over to Jerry for a review of the financial results.
Jerry? Thank you Paul.
Good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
We'll first review the income statement and segment information then touch on a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
A review of the income statement showed the following: Total sales in the first quarter were up 7% to $3.2 billion and this follows a 7% sales increase in the fourth quarter of 2011.
And this is the kind of steady and consistent growth we look for in our businesses and we're excited about the opportunity to improve on this record again at 2012 and beyond.
Gross profit improved by 8% in the first quarter and was 28.9% of sales up from 28.5% in the first quarter of 2011.
We've made good progress on improving our gross margin over the last few quarters including the most recent quarter.
We expect our ongoing initiatives to effectively manage supply chain costs increase distribution efficiencies and maximize our pricing potential to continue -- to generate continued gross margin expansion over a year -- on a year-over-year basis for the next several quarters.
Our management teams are committed to this effort.
We currently project a 10- to 20-basis-point increase in gross margin for the full year.
For the year our cumulative pricing which represents supply increases to us was a negative 0.2% in Automotive plus 0.3% in Industrial plus 2.1% in Office Products and a negative 1.0% in Electrical.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Total expenses were $691 million in the first quarter and improved to 21.7% of sales versus 22.1% in 2011.
We're pleased to show the continued improvement in controlling our expenses again this quarter as we made solid progress on this line in 2010 and 2011.
We attribute the improvement to the combined benefits of greater leverage associated with our sales growth and ongoing measures to control costs.
For the last few years we've benefited from cost-saving initiatives in several areas including warehouse and infrastructure freight and utilities among others.
In addition after a 12% workforce reduction in '08 '09 timeframe we've only added back another 2% to 3% to our labor force including acquisitions over the last 2 years.
Without the acquisitions our headcount is actually down about 1% over the same time period which we believe is a pretty good indication of the excellent job by our entire organization to effectively control costs.
This also reflects the positive impact of our investments in technology over the last several years.
These efforts have been meaningful to our overall results and for the first quarter of 2012 the cost savings across all our expense categories was approximately $10 million.
Effective cost management is an ongoing priority for us and we will remain focused on these efforts throughout the year.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
Automotive had revenue in the quarter of $1 493 500 000.
That represents 47% of the total and is up 6%.
They had operating profit of $114.6 million that's up 17% so a strong operating margin expansion from 7.0% to 7.7%.
The Industrial group had revenue in the quarter of $1 121 200 000 representing 35% of the total and was up 12%.
They had operating profit of $84.3 million up 28% so very nice margin expansion from 6.6% to 7.5%.
Office Products had revenue in the quarter $426.2 million representing 13% of the total down 1.5%.
Operating profit $37.5 million; up 0.3% so solid margin expansion considering the sales decreased from 8.6% to 8.8% of sales.
The Electrical group had revenue in the quarter $147.1 million represents 5% of the total and is up 5%.
Operating profit of $12.0 million up 19% and so excellent margin expansion from 7.2% to 8.1%.
Total operating profit increased by 17% in the first quarter and operating profit margin improved 70 basis points to 7.8% from 7.1% in the first quarter of 2011.
This is tremendous progress for us and we are especially encouraged that all 4 business segments contributed to the gain.
We're optimistic that we can show continued year-over-year operating margin expansion in the quarters ahead and currently expect our overall improvement -- an overall improvement of approximately 20 to 30 basis points for the full year.
We had net interest expense of $4.7 million in the first quarter and this is down from 2011 due to lower interest rate on our new $250 million debt agreement that was signed in November 2011.
We'll discuss our debt position later but we currently expect our net interest expense to be approximately $20 million to $22 million for 2012.
Other category which includes corporate expense amortization of intangibles and non-controlling interest was $15.5 million expense in the first quarter and that's up from $12.9 million in the first quarter last year.
Increase primarily reflects higher expenses for benefits legal and professional costs as well as the increase in amortization relative to last year.
We continue to project the total of the category to be in the $60 million to $70 million range for the full year which is consistent with 2011.
For the quarter tax rate approximately 35.9% compared to 34.1% for the first quarter of 2011.
Primarily the increase in rate is related to a favorable adjustment recorded in the first quarter of last year associated with the expiration of the statute of limitations related to international taxes.
Currently we expect our full-year tax rate for 2012 to be approximately 36.5% to 37%.
Net income for the quarter $146.3 million up 16%.
EPS improved to $0.93 compared to $0.80 last year and that's also up 16%.
We're very proud of the hard work by all of our associates at Genuine Parts Company.
They certainly deserve the credit for helping us achieve another quarter of strong earnings growth.
Now let's touch on a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at March 31 of $424 million remains strong although it's down 9% from $466 million in March last year and down 19% from $525 million at December 31.
Decrease in cash reflects a net impact of the increase in earnings effective asset management and cost reductions but is offset by cash used for the 10% increase in the dividend capital expenditures acquisitions and share repurchases over the last 12 months.
In the first quarter we used more than $200 million in investing activities primarily for the Exego investment in early January and the Light Fab  acquisition by EIS on February 1.
Accounts receivable $1.61 billion at March 31 increased 8% from March 31 last year and that's slightly higher than our 7% sales increase for the first quarter.
Our focus is on growing receivables at a rate less than revenue growth and we'll continue to emphasize the improvement in this area over the balance of the year.
I would point at that we remain satisfied with the quality of our receivables.
Inventory at 3/31 $2.26 billion and that's flat with inventory December 31 last year and up just 1% from $2.24 billion at March 31 2011.
Our team is doing a very good job managing our inventory levels and we remain focused on further improving our position as we move through 2012.
Accounts payable balance at March 31 $1.56 billion.
That's up 8% from December 31 and is up 14% from March 31 last year.
Increase in trade payables reflects the impact of extended payment terms and other payables initiatives negotiated with our vendors.
Improving our payables has been a priority for us over the last couple of years and as a result our date in payable has improved over this period.
We remain pleased with the positive direction of this important account.
Working capital $2.67 billion at March 31 is up 7% from March 31 last year as reported but is down 3% after adding back the $250 million current portion of debt presented last year which was converted and reclassified to long-term debt in the fourth quarter of 2011.
So we're encouraged with our ongoing progress in managing working capital and our balance sheet is in excellent condition.
Total debt at March 31 2012 remains unchanged at $500 million.
The first $250 million of debt is due in November 2013 and the debt for the new agreement signed in November of last year is due in November 2016.
Total debt to total capitalization March 31 was 14.7% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
We generated solid cash flows again in 2011 and expect to improve on that in 2012.
We currently expect to generate cash from operations of approximately $700 million to $750 million for the year and free cash flow after deducting capital expenditures and dividends should be approximately $300 million to $350 million.
We're encouraged by the continuing strength of our cash flows and we remain committed to our ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority is the dividend which we've paid every year since going public in 1948 and have raised 56 consecutive years.
As you may recall in our February board meeting our directors approved a 10% increase in the company's annual dividend for 2012 to $1.98 per share from $1.80 per share paid in 2011.
New dividend represents approximately 55% of our 2011 earnings per share and is our second consecutive year to raise the dividend by 10%.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of the 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures $16.9 million for the first quarter up from $14.5 million invested in the first quarter last year.
We continue to expect our CapEx spending for the full year to outpace 2011 and be in the range of approximately $110 million to $125 million.
The vast majority of these investments will continue to be weighted toward productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Appreciation amortization $23.0 million in the quarter compared to $22.5 million last year with the increase due to the growth in capital spending.
We expect D&amp;A to be approximately $90 million to $100 million in 2012.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing important use of our cash and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
In addition to Automotive's investment in Exego and the Quaker City acquisition covered by Paul we made a small acquisition in the Electrical business in the quarter and anticipate additional opportunities for acquisition over the balance of 2012.
We remain disciplined in our approach to this element of our growth strategy and continue to target those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in a $25 million to $125 million range.
We repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock in 2011 under the company's stock repurchase program with only minimal purchases thus far in 2012 and have approximately 13.5 million shares authorized and available for repurchase at the current time.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but expect to remain active in the program over the balance of 2012 as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
In closing we want to again thank all of our dedicated GPC associates for their hard work.
They truly are the best.
We're pleased with our first quarter performance and optimistic for continued progress in our results over the balance of 2012.
We're encouraged by the many good things happening throughout our organization that will support our growth and with a strong and healthy balance sheet and solid cash flows we are well positioned to further maximize our return to shareholders.
And that concludes our financial review so I'll return it back to Tom.
Thank you Jerry and Paul.
So that's a recap of our first quarter results and we're pleased to start the year with a solid performance and we feel that we are positioned to produce another good year in 2012.
As far as the remainder of the year is concerned we remain comfortable with the full-year revenue guidance that was provided on our February call.
At that time we said that we expected Automotive to be up 5% to 7% Industrial and the Electrical/Electronic to each be up 8% to 10% and Office Products to be up 1% to 3%.
Through the first quarter Automotive is right in line Industrial is a bit above and Office Products and Electrical are each a little bit below.
However we continue to feel that these are generally appropriate expectations at this time and this would give us a full-year revenue increase of 6% to 8% for the entire company.
On the earnings side our prior guidance was for earnings per share to be $3.85 to $4.
And at this point we feel that it would be appropriate to raise this to a new range of $3.93 to $4.05 which would be up 10% to 13%.
Additionally assuming that we close on the Quaker City Motor Parts transaction on May 1 as planned this would add approximately 1% to the full-year revenue and $0.04 to $0.05 to the earnings numbers.
So that will conclude our planned comments this morning and we would like to now address any questions that you may have.
And we'll turn the call back over to Jodie.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Elizabeth Lane on for John.
My first question is regarding the recent production disruption of CDT and Nylon 12.
And I'm just wondering if a potential global shortage of fuel lines and brake lines and other auto parts that use Nylon 12 is likely to have any kind of material impact on your NAPA business? No it will not impact our business in a material way.
At this point we don't see any supply disruption.
That's not to say we won't experience some as we move through the next few months.
But those 2 product categories are not large categories for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And second it looks like the Aftermarket Auto Parts business is doing pretty well but we keep seeing continued weakness in the tire replacement market in the U.S.
So what do you think is the disconnect there? And why are people buying certain replacement auto parts but not tires? I think it may have something to do with the financial situation of the consumer and if they can defer any maintenance type items they'll defer it.
And on the things that we see the outbound flow it's largely nondiscretionary and we see the strength there.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Ciccarelli from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Patrick Palfrey sitting in for Scott today.
I guess first off could you talk a little bit about why gross margins were so strong especially on the NAPA side of business.
Industrial I understand because it has more leverage but NAPA hasn't proven to work that way at least in recent times.
Patrick this is Jerry.
I'll take that.
Actually gross margins in the Automotive were not up for the quarter.
The other 3 segments' gross margins were all up and some of that -- the strong operating margin in the Automotive is strictly from the controlling of their SG&amp;A-type expenses.
Some of the contribution in the gross margin improvement in our Office Products -- they had a nice increase in gross margin and they did some year-end buys.
And you heard our numbers they had some inflation in the first quarter so that improved their gross margin.
And we have specific initiatives in all the businesses and they just started to pay off in the first quarter.
So we did see the 40-basis-point improvement in gross margin but that was not a contributing factor to the strong operating margins in Automotive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just another question if I may.
Within the Automotive business could you talk about the cadence of the quarter and maybe how the mild weather and gas would have affected sales trends? The quarter was relatively consistent.
The weaker of the 3 months was February.
The other 2 months were pretty consistent.
And then as far as weather impact we did see some impact on products like rotating electrical and some under-hood product but the offset might have been the fact that we really had quite a nice quarter on the retail side.
So the mild weather might have actually helped the retail business in our opinion anyway.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all if you think about the DIY and the commercial business just to try to understand the relative size of DIY.
To the extent that DIY picked up 5 percentage points or so from Q4 to Q1 and the aggregate sales increase was roughly unchanged is it that small a piece of the business that it can't really move the needle or is it a rounding factor? Or is there a third issue that would have kept the number flat even though DIY got down as good as it did? No.
The DIY business I think you probably will recall is 20% to 25% of the total business and the remainder of the business is on the commercial side.
Our commercial business performed well in the quarter.
Additionally we feel good about the progress that was made especially as Paul said in our 2 key commercial businesses: Auto Care and major accounts double-digit increases.
So it's just the way the numbers came together.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then within the Automotive business I'm interested what you saw.
If you think about failure and you think about maintenance and you think about discretionary obviously discretionary numbers aren't going to be that big of a business for you in general.
How did the trend look in the quarter and how did it concur to what might have seen in 2011? The trend on what Matt? I'm not sure I got the question.
Research Division</strong> I guess the mix among failure-related products maintenance-related products and then any discretionary that you might sell where you saw the relative strength within the Automotive business.
I'll try to take it from the latter part back.
The product categories that performed well for us in the quarter quite well were things like brake products undercar products showed good strength as the quarter progressed.
And then as I mentioned things like rotating electrical and some of the underhood categories were softer.
But the things that performed pretty well for us were in our opinion non-discretionary-type items that are things that needed to be replaced for vehicle safety or performance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the final question.
Your read on the Office product sector over the past several quarters has been spot on.
That being said it was very interesting that the Megas really showed that first signs of life for quite a while and the independents maybe more of a problem this quarter.
If you think about what drove the Megas to the extent that you can discern whether it's full forward on the manner of restocking or whether there might be a more sustained recovery evident in your businesses? We actually don't have a read on that Matt.
We're anxious to see the reports as they come out from the Megas and see how their contract segments all perform in the North American delivery segments.
But you know they strengthened a bit comparatively speaking in the fourth quarter.
They range from being down 1 flat to up 2 which was a stronger performance than what any other individual companies had experienced prior.
So we think that maybe they're doing a pretty good job right now.
They're comparing -- in our case they're comparing against some subdued results in the prior quarter.
So we don't know enough about it to know whether this is a trend or whether it's just the way it came together in the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Montani from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was going to ask on the Automotive side just following up on weather if I could for a moment.
Historically when you guys have seen perhaps bit more moderate temperatures in the winter would you say that that potentially could have a slowing effect as we get into the spring because there may not be as much breakage or is that sort of premature to speculate on? I think it's a bit premature to try to draw any conclusions like that.
The best thing that can happen for the Aftermarket is that when we get into this summer we get some extreme heat and that will create some additional demand in the Aftermarket.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess if I could follow up for a minute.
On AP to inventory ratio I mean you guys continue to make progress there now 66% I guess in total.
Can you give us a feel for maybe where the Automotive side of the business might be and how you would compared to some of your competitors there like Autozone.
Is it 110%? Mike this is Jerry.
We don't have that information to give you but you're comparing apples and oranges there.
We're a wholesaler with local distribution centers and we continue to push up vendors for extended terms and we'll continue to do so and some initiative we have there.
But we are just going to continue to push it out and we don't have a specific target.
We don't know where it will take us.
But every quarter we try to do better.
And I don't think it's reasonable for us to expect to take our terms out as far as some of the retailers have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the last question I had was on Quaker City.
Is there anything you can share at this point in time as it relates to potential purchase price or multiples on that? No not at this time.
Maybe as we get further along but not currently.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer from Gabelli and Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a question on Office Products here.
You really had an outstanding performance from an operating profit perspective in the quarter.
What levers are you pulling there to help keep that margin above that 8.5% level? And how sustainable do you think that that is going forward in maybe a 1% to 2% GDP growth-type environment? I'll try to take that one Brian.
I'll preface my comments by saying that from an operating point of view we think the Office Products team has done a terrific job and not just in this quarter but in the past year or so.
If we get any kind of top line growth in that business they're going to do a heck of a job for us.
Among the things that they've done a good job on would be managing their margins.
They're showing good progress in that initiative.
They've done a very good job on expense control in a number of different areas and we think that that will continue.
And if we can get revenue growth even in the low single-digits with all the good work that's been done over there on all these other categories I think that the margin will continue to show some improvement for us.
Brian I'd also point out that the cyclicality of their business the first quarter and the fourth quarter are strongest operating margin quarters.
So if we get to the second quarter and they drift under 8% that doesn't mean that they're not as good a job.
Inc.</strong> No I certainly -- we've got a long history of seasonality here.
I understand.
And just talking about share repurchases very light in the first quarter.
Anything driving that? Was it giving working capital build out it just wasn't a priority? Couple of things there Brian.
Certainly we've been conservative with our balance sheet and our cash knowing that we have the acquisition of Quaker City that we expect to close on May 1.
And then we have another acquisition a smaller one that we're looking at.
We will continue to buy shares and our intent for the year is to buy at least enough shares to cover any options that we grant.
And the board granted about 1.1 million 1.2 million shares in options at their last meeting.
And so we will still say it is fully our intent to buy at least that many shares in the year.
And we do try to buy on pullback and if we see that we'll be more active than we are at the current time.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And just one number that I missed.
The pricing for Auto within the quarter was that up 1%? Did I hear that correctly? That was down 20 basis point.
Negative.
Negative.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
This is Judy in for Keith.
I just want to clarify on the Quaker City acquisition that you're going to close in May.
You said that it's about 1% for the full-year revenue and 4% to 5% for earnings.
Was that for the full year? No that's not 4% to 5% that's $0.04 to $0.05.
For the full-year of earnings? For the impact of the -- from May 1 to the end of the year.
Okay.
That's from May 1 fine.
Okay.
And just to touch back on the Exego acquisition now that that's closed.
Are you seeing similar trends there with your core North American market or is there any difference between their commercial and retail or any areas you can improve there on that acquisition? If we look at it from a revenue standpoint of the Aftermarket in North America is a bit healthier heavier than the Aftermarket in that part of the world but the folks there are doing a good job in view of what the circumstances look like.
From an operating standpoint they continue to do a nice job there as well so they're performing in line with what our expectations were going into the transaction.
Okay.
So you're still looking for maybe about $0.04 to $0.05 contribution from that for this year? For this year that's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Mario Gabelli from Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> Unfortunately I've been grazing on other calls.
How much did you indicate you're paying for Quaker? We have not given that information out Mario and because it hadn't been determined.
There's still due diligence going on.
We expect to close at May 1.
And we'll have some numbers.
They will be in the 10-Q that we file in the Subsequent Events section.
Inc.</strong> All right.
And the number that was given in terms of increased earnings was that largely the range increase in part because of the initial inclusion of this acquisition or was it -- or does that exclude the increased number? That excludes the Quaker City.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So that would be -- that Quaker stated incremental to the range that was given earlier? That's right.
That's right.
Inc.</strong> All right.
And then just to hitchhike on the question of Auto Parts prices and I'll talk to you Paul maybe off the line about the changes in discount structure that may or may not be going on but what do you think the price increase for the basket of what you're selling would be like in the second quarter and for the full year? We would think that for the full year it's going to be positive not negative would be our expectation for the full year.
And at this point because...
Inc.</strong> So Tom I'm a little confused.
In other words it was negative 0.2% in the first quarter.
That will incrementally change and accelerate as you sell the constant mix constant number of units it's going to increase revenues? As the year progresses and I'd say at this point Mario well we think it would be something between 1% and 2% for the full year.
Inc.</strong> This is for Jerry.
I mean Jerry you look at the tale of 2 cities.
You read O'Reilly you read Autozone they're at 2.3x EBITDA in terms of leverage.
Any comments? We're not looking to match them in leverage.
We're pleased with our balance sheet.
But I would tell you we may have to incur some leverage with the acquisition of Quaker City.
Inc.</strong> Yes I understand.
That's for about 2 days.
I got it.
You're going to be at a billion-dollar run rate in EBITDA this year then? I hope that's correct.
Inc.</strong> Well come on.
You've got Quaker State (sic) [Quaker City] coming in.
How many stores? How many jobbing stores and how big is the D.C.? They've got 271 stores that they service and they've got 6 distribution centers in that mid-Atlantic corridor.
Inc.</strong> Tom what percentage of the NAPA system brand do they -- stores -- that are still open other than Quaker? Or is that the last -- that's obviously the last big one? That is it.
This will complete the initiative that's right.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So you started this what 30 years ago? There abouts if not longer.
We deliver and we're persistent.
Inc.</strong> We've got the drill Jerry I just now want to figure out what you're going to do going from Australia to New Zealand to China.
Your next question comes from Michael Montani from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up for you.
Was going to ask on the Automotive gross margins Tom or Paul if you can just elaborate a bit on why those gross margins were down in the quarter.
That seems to be a little bit of change from what last year's then.
No that's -- I don't believe that statement is accurate.
Our Automotive margins you may recall in prior calls we said were under pressure.
What we've seen is a steady progression but still not back to the point of stability.
And we would expect that we'll see some of that as the year progresses and they're just lagging the other 3 businesses in terms of the progression through this process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just if I could on Office Products I mean obviously the outlook seems more positive or constructive for the back half.
Is that primarily due to product line extensions or is there certain initiatives Tom that you can share with us? Well it's a combination of things.
There will be some product line extensions that we think will be beneficial.
There's some specific sales initiatives that we prefer not to get into on the call but some pretty impactful we think potentially impactful initiatives that will help us as the year progresses.
And we are hoping for some stability in the marketplace.
The data that we have would suggest that the Office Products industry still is experiencing modest contraction.
So we're hoping to see that turn here in the next quarter or 2 but we're not counting on it necessarily.
We're trying to do the things that we have direct control over but we're not in a position to give out specific sales initiatives.
[Operator Instructions] At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Jodie thank you very much.
We appreciate your joining us on the call today and we appreciate your continued interest and support of Genuine Parts Company.
We look forward to talking to you in our second quarter conference call if not sooner.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
That concludes today's Genuine Parts Company First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Amy and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ms.
Carol Yancey Senior Vice President of Finance you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts Company Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call where we will discuss our results and the outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Jerry Nix our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Paul Donahue our President; and I will each handle a portion of today's call.
And once we have concluded our remarks we will look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our second quarter 2012 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $3 338 000 000 which was up 5%.
Net income was $168.6 million which was up 11%.
And earnings per share were $1.08 this year compared to $0.96 last year and the EPS increase was 12.5%.
So although we did see some moderation in the rate of revenue growth from the first to second quarters which we will discuss more in a few minutes we think that our team did a good job on the operating side of the business in leveraging the 5% sales increase to an 11% increase in net income and we're pleased to report another solid quarter.
A review of the results by business segment shows that our strongest sales results continue to come from our Industrial and Electrical/Electronic segments.
Motion Industries is our industrial distribution company and they were up 8% in the quarter.
This follows a 12% increase in Q1 so we did see some deceleration in the growth rate.
But as a point of information the 8% increase this quarter is on top of a 19% increase in the second quarter of last year making for a challenging comparison.
But in our opinion they handled it well and they came through the quarter in good shape.
A review of the Industrial results in a bit more detail shows that the top 12 product categories were up 11% in the quarter and then the top 10 industry segments were up 8% and the top 20 customers had a combined 15% increase.
So from a product category industry segment and customer perspective the results continue to show good balance in the quarter with solid contributions from each of these 3 areas.
Through the first 6 months of the year our Industrial sales are running 10% ahead and we feel good about their prospects for the second half.
While we did see some moderation in the May industrial production and capacity utilization indices the June figures released earlier this week showed some improvement and the individual indices remain at historically healthy levels.
This combined with some strong internal growth initiatives caused us to remain optimistic about our Industrial business for the remainder of the year.
Moving on to the Electrical/Electronic segment EIS was up 9% in the quarter.
This follows a 5% increase in the first quarter so we did see some nice sequential improvement in this business which is encouraging.
Our wire and cable segment is enjoying the strongest growth while the Electrical and Electronics segments are more challenged.
Our biggest revenue issues in the Electrical and Electronic businesses are with sales into the solar and electronic contract manufacturing customer segments.
Both of these industries have experienced significant slowdowns over the past several quarters.
But even with that said our top 25 Electrical and Electronic customers were up 9% in the quarter.
This would indicate healthy conditions in other customer segments which was a big help to our overall results.
Through midyear our Electrical/Electronic business is running 7% ahead and we feel good about the progress that they're making.
With that said however the June Institute for Supply Management Purchasing Managers' Index fell below 50 for the first time in 3 years signaling a slowdown in the overall activity in the industry and we will be watching this closely in the coming months while at the same time working hard toward gaining additional market share going into the second half of the year.
Our Office Products business was down 1% in the quarter.
This follows a 2% decrease in the first quarter so it's been a challenging first half for our Office Products team.
And looking at the results in a bit more detail we were pleased to see that our business with the Mega Channel was up 3% in the quarter following a 1% increase in the first quarter.
But then this was offset by a 2% decrease in the quarter with the independent office products resellers group.
On the product side the cleaning and break room supplies category grew at high-single digits and we continue to make good progress in this area.
Furniture was flat and then the office supplies and technology categories reached down low-single digits in the quarter.
So clearly conditions in the office products industry remain challenging and were down just over 1% through the first 6 months of the year.
And then looking ahead we don't expect any material change in the overall industry conditions in the second half of the year but we do feel that our office products team is in a position to show modest improvements in their results over the final 2 quarters.
So that's a quick overview of the non-automotive segments.
And at this point we'll ask Paul to comment on the automotive operations.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
Good morning and I'd like to add my welcome to each of you.
I'm pleased to have the opportunity to review the second quarter performance of our Automotive business.
As most of you know this is our largest segment and we ended the second quarter with sales up 4%.
Our recent acquisition Quaker City Motor Parts contributed approximately 3% growth while our same-store sales added approximately 2% while currency exchange cost us 1%.
This follows a 6% sales increase in the first quarter of this year.
For the 6 months ended June 30 our Automotive business is up 5% over the same period in 2011.
So we remain encouraged by the underlying long-term fundamentals in the automotive aftermarket and we feel we'll continue to benefit from the solid growth opportunities well into the future.
The aging vehicle population now reported to be on average 11 years old and specifically the growth in the number of older vehicles bodes well for all of us in the industry.
We believe we are well positioned to capture our share of the increase in demand generated by this positive trend.
So as we take a look and further analyze our second quarter results we clearly experienced a deceleration in business over the last few months.
As several of our competitors have already reported April sales appeared to slow due to the mild winter temperatures and the possible pull forward of demand into March.
In hindsight this may help explain the strong 6% retail sales increase we reported in the first quarter.
The slowdown in sales continued into the month of May before it's showing some improvement in June.
So we experienced a challenging couple of months and we were very pleased to see a more positive sales trend in June.
Turning to Quaker City we are very excited about our acquisition of Quaker City Motor Parts and its accretive impact to our overall automotive results.
Just as a reminder Quaker City Motor Parts is a long-standing NAPA distributor and was the last non-GPC NAPA member prior to the acquisition.
They're headquartered in Middletown Delaware and service approximately 270 NAPA auto parts stores primarily in the mid-Atlantic region of the U.S.
Their second quarter sales contribution was in line with our expectations and we remain very encouraged by the opportunities that Quaker City will continue to provide to us in the future.
Turning to the results for our company-owned store group.
In the quarter our commercial business outperformed our retail business although both businesses experienced softer sales in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Turning to our retail business first the quarter ended down 2% and this follows a 6% increase in the first quarter.
Our average dollar value per invoice was up for the quarter but the total number of retail tickets was actually down.
As I mentioned earlier the overall sales decline likely reflects the pull forward of revenues into the first quarter.
However we would also say that we are not immune to the overall slowdown in U.S.
retail sales as reported earlier this week.
We had experienced 1% retail growth in 2011.
And at this point it would appear we should expect to see similar growth throughout the balance of this year.
Now let's take a look at our commercial business.
Sales in our company-owned store group ended up the quarter at plus 3%.
Our wholesale dollars per invoice were up but our overall ticket count was flat.
So the slowing in April and May impacted both our retail and commercial business and this is reflected in both our NAPA AutoCare and major account business.
We had consistently reported double-digit sales growth for the past several years in these 2 important commercial initiatives and sales for these 2 customer groups were up mid-single digits in the second quarter still solid growth but slower than what we have seen in recent periods.
Turning to our fleet business.
We were up 1% in the second quarter which is down from mid-single digit growth in the first quarter and the trends we saw throughout 2011.
So in summary demand in the automotive aftermarket slowed in April and May but then began to show some improvement in June.
We expect the June trend combined with our ongoing initiatives and the underlying positive factors for the automotive aftermarket to support continued growth for our Automotive business over the balance of 2012.
So that completes our overview of the Automotive business in the second quarter.
And at this time I'll hand it over to Jerry for a review of the financial results.
Jerry? Thank you Paul.
Good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
We'll first review the second quarter and 6-month income statements and segment information then touch on a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
Review of the income statement shows the following: Total sales had a record half $3.3 billion for the second quarter an increase of 5% from last year.
For the 6 months total sales $6.5 billion up 6% from 2011.
We're proud of our team for reaching this new sales level especially in a tough sales environment we experienced in the quarter.
And we remain focused on achieving continued steady and consistent sales growth over the balance of this year and beyond.
Gross profit for the second quarter 29.1% of sales that's up from 28.8% in the second quarter of 2011.
And for the 6 months gross margin 29.0% is up from 28.7% for the same period last year.
We've made solid progress on improving our gross margin over the last few quarters and attribute this improvement to our ongoing initiatives to effectively manage supply chain cost increase distribution efficiencies and maximizing our pricing potential.
Our gross margins have also benefited from incremental sales at incremental levels of vendor incentives over the last several periods and we expect to generate continued gross margin expansion on a year-over-year basis for the remaining 2 quarters of this year.
Our management teams across all of our businesses are committed to this effort.
For the year our cumulative pricing which represents supplier changes to us as Automotive is flat through 6 months Industrial is up 0.7% Office Products up 2.6% and the Electrical Group is a negative 0.2%.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Total expenses $705 million in the second quarter that's up 4.5% from 2011 and at 21.1% of sales versus 21.2% in the second quarter last year.
And for the 6 months total SG&amp;A expenses are $1.4 billion and that's up 4.8% at 21.4% of total sales compared to 21.6% for the same 6 months in 2011.
Throughout our organization we're very focused on controlling our expenses and attribute our steady improvement in this area to the combined benefits of greater leverage associated with our sales growth and ongoing measures to control cost.
For the last few years we've benefited from cost-saving initiatives in several areas including warehouse and infrastructure freight and utilities among others and our cost savings also reflect the positive impact of our investments in technology over the last several years.
Our management teams understand that tightly controlling our expenses is an ongoing priority for us and we'll continue to assess the proper cost structure of our businesses as we move through the year.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
Automotive had revenue in the quarter of $1 644 900 000 representing 49% of the total up 4%.
They had operating profit of $153.0 million up 10% so a very strong margin expansion there from 8.8% to 9.3%.
The Industrial Group had revenue in the quarter of $1 138 700 000 representing 34% of the total and up 8%.
They had operating profit of $95.1 million up 11% so a nice margin improvement from 8.1% to 8.3%.
The Office Products Group had revenue in the quarter of $413.3 million.
That represents 12% of the total and is down 1%.
They had operating profit of $30.6 million and down 2% so a good job there on the negative 1% sales to hold margins at 7.4%.
The Electrical group had revenue in the quarter of $149.4 million 5% of the total and up 9%.
They had operating profit of $12.9 million up 41% so outstanding margin expansion there going from 6.7% to 8.7%.
For the 6 months Automotive had revenue 3.138 -- $3 138 400 000 up 5%; operating profit $267.5 million up 13%.
So as mentioned earlier March is very strong at 8.5%.
Industrial Group had revenue for the 6 months $2 259 900 000.
That's up 10%.
Operating profit $179.4 million and that's up 19% so a nice 50-basis point improvement there to 7.9% operating margin.
Office Products had revenue for the 6 months $839.5 million down 1%.
Operating profit of $68.1 million also down 1% so a good job of maintaining their margins at 8.1%.
The Electrical Group had revenue for the 6 months $296.6 million and that's up 7%.
Operating profit $24.9 million up 29% so again for the 6 months adjusted for the quarter outstanding margin improvement to 8.4%.
Total operating profit increased by 10% in the second quarter and operating profit margin improved 40 basis points to 8.7% from 8.3% in the second quarter of last year.
This brought us a 70-basis point improvement in total operating margin in the first quarter this year.
And for the 6 months total operating margin of 8.3% is up 60 basis points from 7.7% last year.
We're very pleased with this level of margin expansion and expect to show continued year-over-year operating margin expansion over the following 2 quarters of the year.
That growth in our operating earnings was driven by the sales growth higher gross margins and positive expense leverage.
We had net interest expense of $5.0 million and $9.7 million for the second quarter and 6 months respectively.
This expense is down from 2011 due mainly to the low interest rate on our $250 million debt facility that we refunded that was renegotiated in November of last year.
We'll discuss our debt position later but we currently expect that net interest expense to be approximately $20 million to $22 million for the year.
Other category which includes corporate expense amortization of intangibles and non-controlling interest was $19.3 million expense in the quarter and is $34.7 million for the 6 months through June.
This was up from last year for both the quarter and year due primarily to the increase in amortization expense and increased cost for legal and professional services.
We continue to project the total other category to be in the $60 million to $70 million range which will be consistent with the prior year.
For the quarter tax rate approximately 36.9% which is slightly favorable to the second quarter in 2011.
Now for the 6 months the 36.5% rate compares to 35.8% for the same period last year.
Primarily the increase in the 6 months rate is related to a favorable adjustment recorded in the first quarter of 2011 that was associated with the expiration of the statute of limitations related to international taxes.
We continue to expect our full year tax rate for 2012 to be approximately 36.5% to 37.0%.
Net income for the quarter $168.6 million up 11%; EPS $1.08 compared to $0.96 last year up 12.5%.
For the year through June net income $314.9 million up 13% and EPS of $2.01 compared to $1.76 last year up 14%.
Second quarter was a record level of earnings for us and we want to recognize all of our associates at Genuine Parts Company for working hard every day to achieve this milestone.
We're proud of their accomplishment.
Now let's touch base on a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at June 30 $172 million and it remains strong although it's down from over $500 million in June last year and December 31 2011.
Decrease in cash primarily reflects the more than $500 million used for several investing activities this year including the January 1 investment in Exego a leading automotive distribution company in Australia and New Zealand; the Electrical Group's Light Fab acquisition on February 1; and Automotive's Quaker City acquisition that closed on May 1.
In addition cash was used in the first half of the year to pay for the 10% increase in dividend capital expenditures and share repurchases.
These significant uses of cash were partially offset by the increase in earnings effective asset management and cost reductions.
And we're comfortable with our cash position at June 30.
Accounts receivable $1.61 billion at June 30 increased 2.5% from June 30 last year on a 5% sales increase for the second quarter which is in line with our goal of growing receivables at a rate less than revenue growth.
We also remain satisfied with the quality of our receivables and will continue to emphasize this level of performance over the balance of the year.
Inventory at 6/30 was $2.33 billion an increase of approximately 4% compared to June 30 last year and up 3% from December 31.
This increase is attributable to the impact of our acquisitions thus far in 2012 and inventory is actually down slightly from both June and December when you break out the acquisitions.
We continue to believe that our team is doing an excellent job of managing our inventory levels.
We'll remain focused on this key investment as we move through 2012.
Accounts payable balance June 30 was $1.60 billion and that's up 7% from June 30 last year and up 11% from December 31.
Increase in trade payables reflects the impact of extended payment terms and other payable initiatives negotiated with our vendors.
Improving our payables position has been a priority for us over the last few years and has had a positive impact on our DPO.
We remain pleased with our progress in managing this important working capital account.
Working capital $2.45 billion at June 30 is down 3% from June 30 last year as reported and is down 12% after adding back the $250 million in current debt at June 30 2011 which was converted and reclassified to long-term data in the fourth quarter of last year.
Effectively managing our accounts receivable and inventory and payables is very important to us and our ongoing progress with these accounts has had a tremendous impact on improving our working capital position and our balance sheet remains in excellent condition.
Total debt at June 30 2012 remains unchanged at $500 million.
First $250 million in debt is due in November of 2013 and the debt for the agreement that was signed in November last year is due in November of 2016.
Total debt to total capitalization at June 30 is 14.6% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
We continue to generate solid cash flow and expect another a very strong year in 2012.
We currently estimate cash from operations of approximately $750 million to $800 million for the year.
And at this level free cash flow after you deduct capital expenditures and dividends should be approximately $350 million to $400 million.
We're very pleased by the continuous strength of our cash flows and remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority is the dividend which we've paid every year since going public in 1948 and have increased for 56 consecutive years.
The company's 2012 annual dividend of $1.98 per share represents a 10% increase from $1.80 paid in 2011 and represents a payout ratio of approximately 55% of our 2011 EPS.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of the 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures $34.5 million for the second quarter is up from $27.2 million invested in the second quarter last year.
And for the 6 months CapEx totaled $51.4 million compared to $41.7 million for the same period in 2011.
We had planned for this level of increase and continue to expect that CapEx spending for the full year to be in a range of $110 million to $125 million.
The vast majority of these investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization $24.7 million in the quarter and $47.7 million for the 6 months.
Both the quarter and the 6-month numbers are up slightly and we expect D&amp;A to be approximately $100 million to $110 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of cash and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
Thus far in 2012 Automotive's investment in Exego and the Quaker City acquisition as well as the small acquisition in the Electrical business as previously mentioned are performing as planned and contributing nicely to our results.
Looking forward we anticipate additional opportunities for acquisitions over the balance of 2012 and we remain disciplined in our approach to this element of our growth strategy.
Generally we target those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally in the second quarter we used our cash to purchase just over 900 000 shares of our common stock under the company share repurchase program and have another 12.6 million shares authorized and available for repurchase today.
I have no set pattern for these repurchases but expect to be active in the program over the balance 2012 as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
In closing we want to once again thank all of our GPC associates for their hard work and dedication.
We're extremely proud of the company's record-setting sales and earnings achieved in the second quarter and we look forward to reporting more growth in the quarters ahead.
Despite some uncertainty in the economy which we expect to persist for most of this year we remain encouraged by the many positive initiatives in place throughout our organization that will help support our ongoing growth.
And that concludes our financial review so I'll turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Jerry and Paul.
So that's a recap of our second quarter results.
And as said at the outset although we did see some deceleration in our overall revenue growth we feel that our team operated well with sales up 5% net income up 11% operating profit up 10% and operating margin improvement of 40 basis points.
And as Jerry just covered good work was done on the balance sheet side as well in the areas of inventory accounts receivable payables and working capital.
So from an overall perspective we feel that we had a reasonably good performance in the second quarter.
And with revenue up 6% for the first half and earnings per share up 14% we're positioned to have another good year in 2012.
Now as far as the full year outlook is concerned our expectation at this time for the full year is that Automotive will end the year with 5% to 7% revenue increase Industrial will be up 8% to 10% Office Products will be between down 1% and up 1% and the Electrical/Electronic will be up 6% to 8%.
And in total this would give GPC a combined revenue increase of 6% to 8% for the year.
On the earnings side our prior guidance was for earnings per share to be in the $3.93 to $4.05 range.
At this point we feel that an expectation of $4 to $4.10 is appropriate.
This includes the recently completed Quaker City acquisition and it would give us an EPS increase of 12% to 15% for the year.
So that will conclude our prepared remarks.
And at this point we'd like to address your questions and we'll turn the call back over to Amy.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just want to dig in on the Auto business a little bit more.
Is it fair to say that the -- and the x Quaker sales were up in the 2% to 3% range in June and there's been a lot of discussion around the heat here in July.
Have you seen any further acceleration due potentially to parts failure due to the heatwave? Chris I'll try to answer that.
The June results were the strongest in the quarter as Paul mentioned and I think your range is close.
As far as any impact from the heat we did see a little bit in the very end of the month of June and then we think we see some further impact in the early reports in July.
I might also tell you anecdotally that in talking with a number of our really good commercial accounts they saw the same pattern in the quarter that we saw in the early part of July.
The indication we're getting from them is that the big account is stronger and they're seeing a little bit of a pickup in their business which I think is probably reflected in our business as well.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if there is a good way for you to answer this but any thoughts you have would be appreciated.
O'Reilly talked about weakness in June and that's different from how you describe the pattern to your quarter.
Is there something about maybe the quarter end or geographic that would account for that? I don't think we can really answer that.
I think we'll just -- we'll all have to look at what happens over the next 90 days or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of guidance Quaker for the back half will add about what maybe 400 basis points to revenue growth in the Auto division? No that's high.
That's high.
It will be closer to 250 to 300 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Wasn't it about 3% for this quarter.
I mean you only had 2 months of the quarter.
Yes it will be closer to 300 basis point for the second half we think.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then final question.
In terms of Industrial the deceleration from 1Q to 2Q can you speak to any inter-quarter trends or maybe July trends that you see there? In terms of the quarterly trends the numbers were pretty consistent on a per day basis as we worked our way through the quarter so we didn't see much fluctuation at all.
Yes we did have deceleration but we also -- as I mentioned in the comments we were going up against a very strong quarter last year when we were up 19%.
So at this point we guided to 8% to 10% for the full year.
And I think we're pretty comfortable with that guidance which would indicate that our revenues will hold pretty steady over the remainder of the year.
And keep in mind we were up 19% in revenue in this business last year as well so the comps continue to be challenging.
Our next question comes from the line of Mario Gabelli with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Those previous questions were right on the Quaker state so I understand this.
What are the revenues from the day you acquired for the first 12 months so make my life easier Jerry? Well they've gone -- they average about $300 million on an annual basis.
Inc.</strong> And secondly what date did it close again? May 1.
Inc.</strong> And how much cash was out for that because I don't have the Q? No Mario we haven't given that out.
Inc.</strong> All right that's fine.
I'll figure it out Jerry...
I know you will but...
Inc.</strong> No the analyst Colin [ph] is on vacation so -- actually Brian is.
How many actual shares are outstanding when I get the Q on the cover? 156...
156.8 million.
Inc.</strong> So that's higher than the average? No I got you.
156.8 million was the weighted average for the 6 months.
I'm just looking at actual...
We will get back later with that when we find that.
Inc.</strong> No no problem.
When you say legal and professionals fees were stepped up during the quarter is that aborted deal fees or is that just looking at other acquisitions that didn't get capitalized or how does that ...
It's a combination of those -- our legal fees in some of the claims are there but if there's a lot of these legal fees that are associated with these acquisitions and some other acquisitions we may have looked at and not done.
And so there's nothing to set up.
Inc.</strong> Yes okay.
Got you.
Now ...
Mario going back -- excuse me Mario but going back to your prior question there are 155.1 million shares outstanding currently.
Actual.
Inc.</strong> Tom you and I are getting to have to report back to individuals so I have to do that.
One minor philosophical question.
Both Romney that's running for President and what's the guy's name -- Obama are both talking about a decline in the corporate tax rate.
Jerry you gave a tax rate.
Is that the same as your cash tax rate the 36.5% 37%? Yes.
In our case it's pretty close.
Inc.</strong> So if they were talking about a decline in the corporate cash tax rate down to 25% 28% at some point I got to look at what the givebacks are in the proposal.
So that would have an incremental increase.
Are there any other elements in your deferred tax account or anything else that we're doing that I should be sensitive about and looking at what if in fact they implement this program? Not that I'm aware of.
Now keep in mind one of the proposals at one point was that they do away with LIFO.
Inc.</strong> Yes that would be nice.
That would help your earnings.
Yes but it will also cost us some cash.
Inc.</strong> Such is life.
And they also did MAP-21.
And I don't want to get into MAP-21 on this call so I'll do it off-line on that in terms of the implications for your pension expense in cash okay defined benefits and whatever.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Liz Lane on for John Murphy.
You guys had a very strong operating margin in the Automotive segment and it looks like it was the highest it's been since about 2002.
Can you go through what some of the factors at work were and should we expect that kind of strength to continue? Yes.
I don't know that we can expect that strength to continue but there are a number of things that happened there.
And we've taken a lot of costs out of our Automotive operations back during the recession.
Those costs have not been added back in as revenue has grown.
And we also -- a part of that is we picked up some profit from the Quaker City sales that were not in the prior year numbers.
I would tell you though that the Exego acquisition that we have is not included in our Automotive numbers.
It's included in corporate that minority interest the 30% that we pick up there.
So it's not in the Automotive number but just basically a good job of operating to get those back up to 9.3% in the second quarter.
But I think more realistic number would be the 8.5% that we have achieved for the 6 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And actually you touched on something I was going to ask about too which was on Exego.
Can you give an update on how it's been performing relative to your benchmarks and does that income from -- so it doesn't -- does that income from Exego get baked into your $60 million to $70 million estimates on the other net line in 2012 or does that estimate exclude the minority interest? I'll take them in reverse order.
It is baked into the $60 million to $70 million.
And then in terms of their performance they're performing pretty much as they said they would and in line with our expectations so we're pleased with what's happening there right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I just have one more which is on Office Products.
I mean it looks that segment is still struggling from both a volume and margin perspective.
Are there any initiatives that you can discuss that that company is taking internally to try to boost that business or is it just at the mercy of the economic environment and high unemployment rate for the near term? Well we would not discuss specific initiatives on the call but we can tell you that there are certain actions that are being taken to try to capture additional share in what is really a very challenging marketplace.
We are dependent upon job creation reduction in office vacancies and just the general overall improvement in the economy.
But we have some very specific revenue initiatives that we hope will give us a little tiny bit of lift as we work our way through the remainder of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to start off by just asking about the guidance and any changes from Q1 to Q2.
Just to clarify when you guided both overall EPS and revenue at the end of Q1 did that include the Quaker acquisition? I think what we said Matt is we gave you 2 sets of numbers one without and one with.
I believe that's right.
And what we're trying to do is clear up any confusion.
So what guidance we've given you this time of $4 to $4.10 would include Quaker and going forward we'll only give you one set of numbers.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the 5% to 7% Automotive was that inclusive of Quaker prior to today? It's inclusive of Quaker as of today.
I'm not -- I don't recall what we said the last quarter.
No it was not in the 5% to 7%.
So we're trying to accommodate the slowing that everyone is seeing in the automotive aftermarket by including this in the new 5% to 7%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So sort of the underlying if Quaker is going to add 3-ish percent on the year the underlying is sort of 2% to 4% more or less if that's about the right call.
And I guess year-to-date on an organic basis you're 6% and then you were 2% so you're running roughly 4%.
Is that the way of looking at your organic number? Because we try to model organic plus Quaker and I want to make sure we're thinking about it the right way.
I think you're right.
The only thing I'd like to have Sid get back to you on is the year-to-date because Quaker started to flow through May 1.
So I think we'd like to double check and balance with you subsequent to the call.
Research Division</strong> That would be helpful.
And then also on Automotive you said currency was about a 1 percentage point impact here in Q2 for Automotive.
Do you remember what that number was for Q1? Basically it was a neutral number in Q1.
I'll tell you that overall the impact on Automotive sales were a little more than 1% in the quarter due to currency.
And in our whole company it was just under 1% impact due to currency.
So currency was a factor.
We don't bring that up normally and we didn't bring it up.
That play was helping us last year and the year before and we just prefer not to bring it up this time but we have to explain the slowness that we saw there.
Research Division</strong> No I agree that it's material.
And on pricing being flat at Automotive what would you say -- and I frankly don't recall the number that you stated at the end of Q1.
What would you say the trends are as they relate to inflation impact on petrol-driven goods and also I guess the metal component and any other factors? I'm not sure if it's all commodity prices or if there's any competitive dynamic at play.
Matt I'm not sure that I can get into particular product categories with you.
But in total at the end of the first quarter we had a negative 0.2% in automotive and then so we had a positive 0.2% in the second quarter to be flat for the 6 months.
Research Division</strong> Got it so price is moving in the right direction.
And then finally on office supply it's interesting that your business is improving with the Megas.
And I guess my question relates to the break room business.
Obviously they're all very focused on that business.
Do you over index with the Megas in break room? It's a new business for them.
Maybe their vendor relationships aren't as developed and they're depending more on you to fund that business or back them up in that business if you will than they would in their traditional businesses.
I'm wondering if that might be part of the -- that might be part of what's helping to improve the business there.
I think there may be a little bit of that Matt but the folks are largely buying that product category direct ...
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you're just riding their growth in that space? To some degree but I think our growth with the independent resellers is very healthy right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Mike Montani on for Greg.
I just had a few questions.
The first one was on the Office side actually.
I apologize if I had missed this but did you break out this quarter how the core business did versus the businesses that are paper and related categories? No we didn't break that out.
But I can tell you that if we look at the core office supplies and we break out the impact of the decline in paper our core office supplies would have been modestly positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then was wondering just given the MAP-21 change and the pension accounting is there anything you can do to update the full year outlook for potential cash contributions to pension? I had been thinking of like a $40 million to $60 million range.
Is that roughly about right or is there any update you can share? Mike I don't think that's right.
We'll have clear guidance on that in our third quarter conference call.
But at this point we're not looking to make any contribution in the remainder of this year to the pension plan and we're trying to evaluate what the contribution for the first part of 2013 would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just quickly a follow-up on Exego and the accretion there.
I guess our thought had been that that could add somewhere around $10 million to $12 million for the year so maybe a run rate of $3 million to $4 million a quarter.
Is that reasonable or have I taken the margin assumptions too far? No.
I think you're a little bit high there.
I think in a prior call we had guided of $0.03 to $0.05 accretive for the year.
I think that was either in our year-end call in February or in our April call.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay and just the last question I had was on outlook for pricing.
You were good enough to share obviously where we were this quarter.
But if you look at Automotive sort of flattish to slightly up and Office up 2.6% should we anticipate during the year that Auto may strengthen to up 1 to 2 and maybe Office moderates a bit towards 1? Or how do you see that playing out for Industrial Auto and Office? At this point I think we'd just say that we think we'll see some modest increase in the pricing as the year progresses but we're not in a position to really give you a more precise number.
I don't -- Paul if you have a better feel for it.
Mike I would just say that at this point we saw a couple of increases come through in the first half on some significant product categories.
But right now there's really nothing pending and nothing that we're expecting in terms of additional price increases coming our way.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to talk -- you got a major automotive aftermarket supplier in JCI this morning saying that battery shipments were sluggish in the quarter and there's still some inventory overhang.
Presumably given a more seasonal element with battery there are others within the space where there potentially is some inventory overhang that could lead to some pricing deterioration in the back half of the year? Are you guys seeing this at all or am I getting too far with the extrapolation? We've not seen it Brian.
Our battery business is actually good.
We don't see any evidence of any inventory build.
We think that with our system it's basically flow-through.
So at this point we feel pretty good about the progress to date and what the outlook is.
And as long as the heat continues it ought to continue to pull batteries all the way.
Brian this is Paul.
I would also just add on the battery business our battery business is pretty good right now.
And we have a major promotion going right now benefiting the Intrepid Wounded Warrior Fund that's out there in the marketplace and we've gotten great playoff.
And our battery business is pretty good right now.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Going to Quaker City $300 million puts it at more or less the higher end of some of the businesses that you've been interested in.
How many other Quaker states are out there that could potentially be kind of in your wheelhouse down the road? Well this -- what interested us in Quaker City primarily is the fact that they were the last of the non-GPC owned NAPA member.
So we've now completed the circuit and there aren't any other NAPA distributors that would be out there for sale.
There might be some other businesses that we could have an interest in prospectively but they won't be in that range.
They'll be smaller businesses if we find any that we think make sense for us.
Brian I might clarify I just want to go to a couple of questions come up in the past.
We did not sell into Quaker City and we did not compete against Quaker City.
They had territory that we didn't sell into and so that's just pure geographic expansion for us.
That's a good point.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregory Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just had one follow-up which is on the gross margin.
You mentioned that the vendor rebates were supportive this quarter and I think will be for the rest of the year.
Could you give us a little more on the magnitude of that or perhaps Jerry is that why the Auto margin ran as strong as it did despite the weak volume in the second quarter? No I don't think it -- it doesn't have that major of an impact on the Automotive side.
It looked like in total company our volume incentive rebates were up about 2% for the 6 months.
And I would say that that's probably going to be what it's going to be for the full year.
I mean that basically is how we do it.
We're projecting for the full year and we have to take a portion of those each quarter.
So we had a 2% increase for the first 6 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as a follow-up on the top line when you said that DIY was down 2 versus up 6 in the first quarter it looks like the deceleration there a lot more than in the Do It For Me side.
But the ticket was up.
Is it fair to say that -- and ticket was down on the Do It For Me Side given that inflation was flat or was there something else going on with mix? No the ticket value was actually up a bit.
The ticket count was basically flat for the DIFM side.
So we had to -- we actually had increased ticket values on both the retail and the commercial side.
We were basically flat in number of tickets on the commercial.
We were down in number of tickets on retail.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scot Ciccarelli RBC.
Because of all your businesses you guys touch a lot of different parts of the economy.
I guess I'm just kind of wondering kind of when you look at your business where are the areas that you may be most optimistic? And on the flip side where do you see the most risk at this stage? I'll take a stab at it.
We're very very pleased with the performance of our industrial-related businesses.
And with the industrial production capacity utilization numbers that came out a couple of days ago we think that that bodes well for the back half of the year.
And we like the specific initiatives that each of the businesses has so we feel good about our ability to maintain share and perhaps even grow a little bit of share in those businesses.
Our Automotive business was going along quite well through the first quarter and then we did hit the industry-wide slowdown in the second quarter.
We are hopeful based upon some of the anecdotal information we're getting from our commercial accounts that they're seeing a pickup in activity in July and that will be sustainable in the months ahead so we continue to be optimistic about our Automotive business.
And the underlying fundamentals as Paul pointed out are all favorable right now.
So that one we think offers some reasonable growth for us in the second half of the year.
The one business that's the most challenged is Office Products and it's primarily related to the overall economic slowdown and then also related to some of the change in product demand.
So anything that's basically paper-based is going to continue to go through some deceleration due to the tablets and the iPads and the things like that that are causing contraction in demand.
But other product categories are offering some attractive growth rates.
We just have to continue to accelerate the growth of the categories that we think offer the best opportunities going forward.
So does that answer your question? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I think it does.
And then I guess as a follow-up would be obviously the Auto segment did slow quite a bit in the second quarter.
I mean outside of weather is there anything else you would attribute it to? Well you look at consumer sentiment and its decline for the past 4 months.
If you look at overall retail sales they've been softening for the past couple of months and I think there's just a general uneasiness or malaise among the consumer right now that I think perhaps had an impact.
We are somewhat encouraged by the reports coming out that say that they expect back-to-school to be reasonably good this year.
And hopefully that's going to translate into some increased purchasing of some of the things we sell as well as consumers start to move beyond the period we're in right now.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
A lot of them have been hit but talking about June and what seemed to be an improving trend as the quarter ended which is -- hearing mixed signals from various participants.
Do you see anything strategically in the market? Did you guys gain share? Was anything happening with major competitors in the space in that period that might have you a relative outperformer during that time period? No I don't think we can answer that specifically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the comment earlier during the prepared remarks you talked about expectations.
I think you said retail was up 1% last year.
You expected this year second half to be in line.
Was that accurate that retail aftermarket might be up around 1%? That is correct Bret.
That's what we're projecting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess one little follow-up on the July commentary.
I think you said a little bit of pickup commentary from your service customers and I think you also said a little bit in the very end of June you'd gotten on the weather.
A sort of order of magnitude was this acceleration from an improved June looking more like the volumes were doing in the first quarter or I'm just sort of trying to get a feeling for the magnitude and timing of that heat impact in the quarter? Well there was very little impact from the heat in June.
We did get some benefit in the very last days.
But any impact from the heat I think will be more evident in the July numbers.
And then in terms of the comparative between June and the first quarter June was still not as strong as the overall first quarter but it was the best month of the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Rakers with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up if I could a bit on Industrial.
It sounds like from the direction of performance you're really not seeing some of the same kind of deterioration in some of these sequential trends in May June July that some of your peers are.
Would that be a correct observation? Well we didn't see any sequential change through the quarter.
Our numbers were pretty consistent as we progressed through the quarter.
But we did see the sequential change at quarter end with first quarter being up 12% and second quarter being up 8%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you move into July you've talked a little bit about indications for the Auto side.
What sort of kind of organic changes are you seeing on the Industrial side of things? We think July should turn out to be fairly consistent with what we saw in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just remind me within that business when you talked about industrial production and the MCU earlier can you talk about how you see that relationship to your business kind of working on a coincident basis or more of a lead indicator of your business there? I want to go back and correct one thing.
I misspoke when I said in line with what we saw in the first quarter.
July is in line with what we saw in the second quarter.
So I just want to clear that up.
As far as the industrial production capacity utilization that's usually a 6- to 9-month indicator for us -- leading indicator.
And with what we saw earlier this week historically that would tend to indicate that the next 2 quarters should be pretty decent for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question regarding EIS it seemed like you put up pretty good margins in that segment in the business.
Just wanted to get a sense for how that might work in terms of is that a project-by-project basis and maybe that's pushing the margins up a little bit there or is that something we can extrapolate going forward? You can't expect those kind of margins going forward.
That's highest margins in their history.
I think some place between -- and our target has been to get them up to 8% and that probably is in your modeling going forward.
But it's just blocking and tackling.
There's not any silver bullet that's going to get out of -- get their operating margins up.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hilgert with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things I wanted to follow up on in the automotive space where you're saying that you're experiencing some softer dynamics going on there.
The Snap-on call just prior to yours I was curious to know what their experience was in that group.
They're saying that they're not seeing anything where consumers are trying to put off repairs or have worked on on their vehicles.
They're seeing that those aftermarket dynamics are still in place and sales in the tool business there were still real good.
Now you're -- but you're saying that -- was the softness coming from the do-it-yourself side or was this coming from the garages? Where was it coming from? Well I think Paul covered in his comments that on the retail sales we were down 2% in the quarter.
On the commercial side we were up 3% in the quarter.
Both of which were softer than what we experienced in the first quarter.
I think it's hard to try to compare Snap-on's results with our results in the sense that they're heavily concentrated on handheld diagnostic equipment heavily concentrated with hand tools.
And that's just a small part of our business.
I will tell you that our tool and equipment business was good in the quarter.
So we feel that the team made good progress there.
But I don't think you can try to compare directly what happens with Snap-on and what happens with us.
And by the way we've got a very high regard for the job that they do.
They're a good company and they perform well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that makes sense.
So you would say then that the underlying fundamentals of the aftermarket might be eroding some but you expect it to be in line with your expectations for the rest of the year? No I don't think we'd go quite that far.
I think what we would say is that we came through the first quarter and the prior 8 quarters with pretty good results.
We saw deceleration in demand in the second quarter.
It appears that that's indicative of what happened in the overall industry.
We think the underlying fundamentals are quite positive now frankly.
We think perhaps some of the softness in the second quarter could be attributed to a milder winter maybe we pulled some sales into the first quarter.
And then also we think some of the softness might be attributed to what we've seen generally in retail sales moderating in the quarter and consumer sentiment moderating in the quarter.
Our expectation is that the second half of the year should be relatively good for us and we don't see any deterioration in the underlying fundamentals in the industry.
We feel good about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then also year-over-year fuel costs I would imagine are a positive for you right now in terms of margin? Well our fuel costs would be down.
So from an operating margin standpoint that would be helpful.
It's a recent phenomenon but it is in fact helping at this point.
Research Division</strong> And how do you record the fuel costs.
I mean you've got a lot of delivery vehicles out there running milk routes every day.
Do you -- is that in cost of goods sold or is that part of your selling? It's in our operating expenses.
And Richard let me -- this is Paul -- just a further comment on that.
I just want to make sure that -- we haven't seen the kind of drops in diesel as we are in basic unleaded fuel at the consumer gas pump.
So we're -- there's really 2 different measurements there.
Our final question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
This is Judy in for Keith.
Just to clarify on the Electrical for the monthly trends with June you did not see a pickup kind of like the industry index that you referenced.
And was there anything else that impacted your outlook for that segment? For the Electrical side? That's right.
Now the Electrical side are pretty steady throughout the entire month the 3 months in the second quarter running basically at 10% 9% 10% and so forth.
So there wasn't any pickup in Electrical towards the end of the quarter.
We have no further questions at this time.
Well Amy thank you.
And we thank each of you for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your continued interest in and support of Genuine Parts Company and we look forward to talking to you in our third quarter conference call if not before.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Dawn and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call for Genuine Parts Company.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Carol Yancey Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Secretary you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call to discuss our results as well as the outlook for the remainder of the year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filing.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Jerry Nix our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Paul Donahue our President; and I will each handle a portion of today's call and once we have concluded our remarks we'll look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our third quarter 2012 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them but for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter was $3 376 million which was up 3%.
Net income was $172.9 million which was up 14% and earnings per share were $1.11 this year compared to $0.97 last year and the EPS increase was also 14%.
After being up 7% in revenue in the first quarter and 5% in Q2 the 3% increase in the third quarter does show deceleration over the past 2 quarters.
We were short 1 sales day in the quarter this year so on a per day basis our third quarter revenues were up just over 4%.
However with that said the third quarter results are a bit better on a per day basis but we did experience a continued decelerating trend in demand in 3 of our 4 businesses which we'll discuss in a bit more detail in a moment.
Despite the softer sales results we do feel that our team did a good job on the operating side of the business by leveraging a 3% sales increase to a 14% increase in both net income and earnings per share.
A review of the results by business segments shows that our Industrial and Electrical/Electronic segments continue to generate the strongest results.
Industrial was up 4.5% in the quarter and Electrical was up 5%.
Both had challenging comparisons to go against with Industrial being up 18% in the third quarter of last year and Electrical/Electronic was up 22%.
With that said however the results in each case were a little lighter than we had anticipated going into the quarter.
And looking a bit deeper into the Industrial performance we see that their top 10 industry segments were up 2% in the quarter.
These segments represent a little over 50% of the total Industrial revenues so they're important to our overall performance.
And the 2% increase in the quarter follows a 12% increase in these same segments in the first quarter an 8% increase in Q2 indicating demand moderation across these key customer categories.
Interestingly the moderation is not consistent across all segments.
Industries like automotive iron and steel and chemicals have remained pretty steady over the first 3 quarters of the year.
But then we have seen decelerating growth rates in Equipment and Machinery Equipment Leasing and Coal segments reflectively feel of the overall economic slowdown over the past several months as well as a slowdown in global demand for a number of these customers.
And we see some of the same inconsistency in the EIS results as well with Wire and Cable continuing to perform quite well but then we're more challenged in the Electrical and Electronics segments primarily in the solar and contract Manufacturing industries.
So the current environment is a bit more challenging and choppy for our Industrial and Electrical/Electronic businesses but the key external demand indicators industrial production manufacturing capacity utilization and the Purchasing Managers' Index all remain generally favorable and our expectation is for each of these businesses to grow 6% to 8% over the final quarter of the year.
Moving on to Office Products we were down 1% in the quarter which is pretty much in line with the 1.5% decrease in Q1 and the 1% decline in Q2.
So no significant movement up or down although on a per day basis the quarterly Office Products results were positive for the first time this year which is a bit encouraging.
As has been the case all year long the Mega customers outpaced the independent customers in the quarter with the Megas growing mid-single digits and the independents declining low single digit.
On the product side the Cleaning and breakroom category grew at mid-single digits Tech Products were flat Office Products down just slightly and Furniture was off low single digit.
At this point we don't see any material changes in the overall Office Products environment with conditions remaining challenging for several more quarters at a minimum and our expectation is for fourth quarter sales to be in a range of down 1% to up 1% which would put S.P.
Richards down 1% for the year.
So that's a quick overview of the nonautomotive segments and at this point we'll ask Paul to give you an update on our Automotive business.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
I'd like to add my welcome to each of you this morning.
I'm pleased to join both Jerry and Tom and to have the opportunity to provide with you all an update on the third quarter performance of our North American Automotive business.
Automotive is our company's largest business segment and we ended the third quarter with sales up 2.5%.
For the 9 months ended September 30 our Automotive business is up 4% over the same period in 2011.
Our sales pattern in the third quarter was very similar to our second quarter results.
In fact when we account for the 1 less selling day in the third quarter this year versus 2011 total automotive sales were up 4% in line with the 4% we delivered in the second quarter.
I will say our overall sales were softer than what we expected at the beginning of the quarter.
We believe there are a number of factors impacting our industry including the mild winter temperatures experienced in the northern half of the country along with the ongoing uncertainty in the economy.
Fortunately we'll begin to annualize the impact of the weather late in the fourth quarter and a more normalized winter weather pattern should serve to improve demand.
In addition we continue to believe that the underlying long-term fundamentals in the automotive aftermarket remain strong and the industry will continue to benefit from the solid growth opportunities this offers us well into the future.
The aging vehicle population now reported to be close to 11 years the continued growth in the number of older vehicles and the positive year-over-year miles driven numbers bodes well for all of us in the industry.
And we feel NAPA is well positioned to capture its share of the increase in demand generated by these positive trends.
When we further analyze our third quarter results the sales momentum we began to see in late June and early July softened in the middle of the quarter before bouncing back in September.
Our average daily sales in the month of September were our strongest since back in March.
As a result our total automotive revenues adjusted for 1 less selling day improved 4% for the second consecutive quarter.
The components of this revenue growth include a 1% same-store sales increase the positive sales contribution from our acquisition of Quaker City Motor Parts offset by a slight loss due to currency exchange.
Regarding the increase in our core growth it is important to point out that our results varied significantly by region of the country.
The traditional cold weather regions our Central Midwest and Eastern divisions which comprise about 1/3 of our overall business consistently underperformed the other regions across the U.S.
This likely is a direct reflection of the impact of the mild winter in these colder climate areas.
The mild winter temperatures also impacted key weather-sensitive product categories in these regions products like wipers brakes and ignition products.
We believe this type of regional disparity and product category impact is consistent across most of the industry.
It also serves to reason that a return to a more normal winter weather pattern should drive a potential upswing in demand in the upcoming winter months.
Moving along we're very pleased with the positive contribution from our Quaker City Motor Parts acquisition.
Their third quarter and year-to-date sales contribution was in line with our expectations.
We have a strong team in place our transition plans are on track and we are excited with the opportunities that Quaker City will provide to us in the future.
Turning to the results for our company-owned store group.
In the quarter our Commercial business continued to outperform our Retail business.
Taking a look at the Retail business first the quarter trended down 1% which follows a 2% decline in the second quarter.
Our average number of invoices per day was down slightly while our average dollar value increased.
On the commercial side in our company-owned stores the quarter ended up 1% consistent with our growth in this segment in the second quarter.
Our average number of invoices was flat while our average dollar value per invoice increased.
So we're somewhat encouraged to see that while our overall store traffic is down slightly our average order size is increasing.
It's also encouraging to see both our retail and our commercial businesses showing steady results on a sequential basis.
Likewise this is reflected in both our NAPA AutoCare and Major Account business results as well.
Sales for these 2 important customer groups were up low to mid-single digits in the third quarter.
We're pleased to report we reached a record number of NAPA AutoCare centers in the third quarter which bodes well for future revenue growth.
So in summary demand in the automotive aftermarket in the third quarter proved very similar to what we experienced in the April to June quarter.
We do remain bullish about the core fundamentals impacting the automotive aftermarket and our Automotive Parts Group.
These core fundamentals combined with our own internal growth initiatives provide us ample growth opportunities for the fourth quarter and well into the future.
In light of that our expectations for our North American Automotive Parts business is to generate a fourth quarter sales increase in the range of 6% to 8%.
So that completes our overview on the Automotive business in the third quarter and at this time I'll hand it over to Jerry for a review of the financial results.
Jerry? Thank you Paul.
Good morning.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
We'll first review the third quarter and 9-month income statements and segment information then touch on a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up then we'll open the call up to your questions.
View of the income statement shows the following: Total sales at a record high of $3.4 billion for the third quarter an increase of 3% from last year and this reflects a 4% increase on a daily sales basis.
For the 9 months total sales of $9.9 billion up 5% from 2011.
And you've heard from Tom and Paul the sales environment remained challenging in the quarter but we're proud of our team for working through these difficult conditions and reaching another record sales level for the company.
We remain focused on achieving continuous steady growth in the fourth quarter for 2012 -- of 2012 and beyond.
Gross profit for the third quarter 28.9% of sales is even with the gross margin achieved in the third quarter of last year.
For the 9 months gross margin of 29.0% was up 30 basis points from the 28.7% from the same period in 2011.
So we made nice progress on improving our gross margin for the year although the third quarter's a little bit more challenging due to the competitive sales environment and slightly lower levels of vendor incentives earned for the quarter.
We'll continue to look opportunities to expand our gross margin through ongoing initiatives to effectively manage supply chain cost increase distribution efficiencies and maximize our pricing potential.
Our management teams across all of our businesses are committed to this effort.
For the year cumulative pricing which represents supplier increases to us was a negative 0.3% in automotive plus 1.2% in industrial plus 2.7% in Office Products and a negative 0.7% in electrical.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Total expenses $705 million in the third quarter and that's up 2% from 2011 and at 20.9% of sales is down from 21.3% in the third quarter of last year.
For the 9 months total SG&amp;A expenses $2.1 billion that's up 3% and at 21.2% of total sales compared to 21.5% for the same 9 months in 2011.
We attribute our steady improvement in this area to the combined benefits of greater leverage associated with our sales growth and our intense focus on managing our expenses.
Throughout the organization we've made solid progress in controlling our expenses and we'll continue to assess and align the proper cost structure of our businesses as we move through the year and beyond.
We continue to benefit from ongoing cost saving initiatives including investments in technology which have positively impacted the operating efficiency in our distribution centers and stores as well as supply chain costs in areas such as freight and logistics among others.
For the third quarter we also experienced savings in our corporate expenses which we'll discuss further in a few moments.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
Automotive had revenue in the quarter of $1 650.9 million.
That represents 49% of the total and is up 2.5%.
And operating profit of $150.6 million up 7% so very nice margin expansion from 8.8% to 9.1% of revenue.
The Industrial Group had revenue in the quarter $1 138.9 million.
That represents 34% of the total and it's up 4.5% and they had operating profit of $94.6 million down 3%.
So poor leverage and little less incentives in the quarter caused our operating margin to slip from 8.9% to 8.3% in the quarter.
Office Products $444.3 million in sales for the quarter represents 13% of the total.
That's down 1% and they had operating profit of $29.9 million and that's up 10%.
So very strong margin expansion there going from 6.1% to 6.7% of revenue.
Electrical Group's sales in the quarter $150.9 million represent 4% of the total that's up 5% and operating profit $13.6 million up 22%.
So outstanding margin expansion there due to the leverage off the sales and lower copper pricing but that's a record half at 9.0% in the quarter.
And moving to the 9 months.
Automotive had revenue of $4 789.3 million up 4%.
Operating profit of $418.2 million up 11%.
Again very strong margin expansion for that group going from 8.2% to 8.7%.
The Industrial Group had revenue for the 9 months of $3 398.8 million up 8%.
Operating profit $274.0 million up 10%.
So again even though with a slight decline in the quarter they were up solid for the year for the 9 months 7.9% prior year 8.1% for the current year.
Office Products had revenue for the 9 months $1 283.7 million down 1%.
Operating profit of $98.1 million that's up 2%.
So again excellent margin expansion from 7.4% to 7.6% considering a negative sales increase they've done a good job of taking infrastructure costs out and managing their expenses downward.
Electrical Group had revenue at -- for the 9 months $447.4 million up 7%.
Operating profit $38.5 million up 27%.
So again very strong margin expansion from 7.2% to 8.6% at a record high and I would not expected for them to continue to show that kind of improvement in their operating margin but we're extremely pleased with the level that they are at this time.
Total operating profit was up approximately 4% in the third quarter and operating profit margin improved 20 basis points to 8.6% from 8.4% in the third quarter 2011.
This follows margin improvement of 70 and 40 basis points for the first and second quarters of 2012 respectively and total operating margin for the 9 months is 8.4% and that's up 40 basis points from 8.0% last year.
We're pleased with this level of margin expansion and expect to show continued year-over-year operating margin expansion in the fourth quarter as well.
We had net interest expense of $5.0 million and $14.7 million for the third quarter and 9 months respectively which is down from 2011 due mainly to the lower interest rate on our $250 million debt agreement that was funded in November of last year.
We'll discuss our debt position later but we currently expect our net interest expense to be approximately $20 million to $22 million for the full year.
Other category which includes corporate expense amortization of intangibles and noncontrolling interest was $12.3 million expense in the third quarter and is $47.0 million for the 9 months of September.
This last [indiscernible] improvement in the third quarter due primarily to the company's favorable retirement plan valuation adjustment and the income recorded for our 30% investment in Exego.
These 2 factors as well as the positive impact of our ongoing cost savings served to improve this expense line and we currently project the total other category to be in the $60 million to $65 million range for the full year which is relatively consistent with 2011.
For the quarter tax rate approximately 36.3% was down from 38.6% last year due to the nontaxable status of the favorable retirement plan I just -- we just discussed.
And for the 9 months the 36.4% rate compares to 36.8% for the same period last year and we'd expect our full year tax rate for 2012 to be approximately 36.5%.
Net income for the quarter $172.9 million is up 14%.
EPS increased to $1.11 compared to $0.97 last year also up 14%.
For the year through September net income is up 13% EPS of $3.11 is up 14% over the prior year.
The third quarter was another record level of earnings for us and we want to recognize all of our associates at Genuine Parts Company for achieving this milestone.
This requires a great deal of hard work and dedication on their part and we're proud of their accomplishment.
Now let's touch base on a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at September 30 was strong at $398 million up from approximately $172 million at June 30 although down from over $500 million at September last year and at December 31 of 2011.
Our current cash position reflects the more than $500 million used for several investing activities earlier this year including the January 1 investment in Exego the leading automotive distribution company in Australia and New Zealand the Electrical Group's Light Fab acquisition on February 1 and Automotive's Quaker City acquisition closed on May 1.
These significant uses of cash were partially offset by the increase in earnings effective asset management and cost reductions.
Accounts receivable $1.6 billion September 30 increased 5% from September 30 last year on a 3% sales increase for the third quarter.
As we said before our goal is to grow receivables at a rate less than revenue growth so we have work to do in this area and we expect to see progress toward this goal in the fourth quarter.
Overall though we're satisfied with the quality of our receivables.
Inventory.
9/30 of 2012 $2.4 billion that's an increase of approximately 4% compared to September 30 and December 31 of 2011.
The increase is attributable to impact of our acquisitions thus far in 2012 and inventories are actually down slightly from both September and December when you break the acquisitions out.
Our team is doing an excellent job of managing our inventory levels and we remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move through the final quarter of 2012.
Accounts payable balance at September 30 $1.8 billion that's up 11% from September 30 last year and up 22% from December 31.
Significant increase in trade payables reflects the impact of extended payment terms and other payable initiatives that we've negotiated with our vendors.
Improving our payables position has been a priority for us over the last couple of years and had a -- has a positive impact on our days and payables with DPO up 2 days from 62 -- to 62 from 60 last year.
Working capital of $2.6 billion at September 30 is up approximately 17% -- 7% from September 30 last year as reported but is down 3% after adding back the $250 million in current debt at September 30 of 2011 which was converted and reclassified to long-term debt in the fourth quarter of that year.
Effectively managing accounts receivable and inventory payables is very important to us and our ongoing progress with these accounts has had a tremendous impact on improving our working capital position and cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition.
Total debt September 30 2012 remains unchanged at $500 million.
First $250 million in debt is due in November of 2013 and the debt with agreement signed in November of last year is due in November of 2016.
Total debt total capitalization at September 30 was 14.0 and although comfortable with our capital structure we want to remind you that back on September 11 we entered into a multicurrency syndicated credit facility agreement of $850 million.
And this agreement which carried a 5-year term and an interest rate of LIBOR plus 75 basis points replaces a $350 million unsecured revolving line of credit that was scheduled to mature this December.
New facility provides us with expanding borrowing capacities to support our growth opportunities as may be needed from time to time.
No amounts are borrowed under this agreement at September 30 of this year.
The company continued to generate solid cash flows and 2012 is shaping up to be another very strong year for us.
We currently estimate cash from operations $775 million to $825 million for the full year and at this level free cash flow after deducting CapEx and dividends should be approximate $350 million to $400 million.
Continuous strength of our cash flows is encouraging.
We remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of this cash which we believe serves to maximize shareholder value.
First priority's the dividend which we've paid every year since going public in 1948 and have increased for 56 consecutive years.
The company's 2012 annual dividend of $1.98 represents a 10% increase from $1.80 paid in 2011 and represents a payout ratio of approximately 55% of our 2011 earnings per share.
Our goal would be maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of the 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment capital expenditures were $20.0 million for the third quarter and that's down from $22.2 million invested in the third quarter last year.
For the 9 months CapEx totaled $71.6 million compared to $63.9 million for the same period the prior year.
We planned for this level of increase and expect our CapEx spending for the full year to be in the range of $100 million to $120 million.
Vast majority of these investments will continue to be weighted toward productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Appreciation and amortization $25.6 million in the quarter is $73.3 million for the 9 months.
Both the quarter and the 9-month number's up slightly and we continue to expect D&amp;A to be approximately $100 million to $110 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing important use of cash and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
We're pleased that our investment in Exego and the Quaker City acquisition in the Automotive Group as well as a small acquisition in the Electrical business continue to perform as planned and are contributing nicely to our results.
We remain active in seeking new acquisitions for our businesses generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally thus far in 2012 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 980 000 shares of our common stock under the company's share repurchase program and have another 12.6 million shares authorized and available for repurchase today.
We've no set pattern for these repurchases but expect to be active in the program over the balance of 2012 and we continue to believe our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
In closing we want to once again thank all of our GPC associates for their great job they're doing.
They are to be commended for achieving another quarter of record sales and earnings.
We're well-positioned for continued growth in our businesses.
We remain optimistic in our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2012 due primarily to the many positive initiatives in place throughout our organization.
As always we'll support our growth with a strong cash flow and healthy balance sheet further maximizing our return to shareholders.
That concludes our financial review so I'll turn it back to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Jerry and Paul for the fine updates.
So that's a quick overview of our third quarter results and in looking back over the quarter we would say that we were a bit disappointed in the sales results in each of our 4 businesses but at the same time they seem to be in line with the respective trends in each of the businesses.
We do think that our team operated pretty well and made some good progress on the operating side of the business despite the revenue challenges and we continue to keep the balance sheet in good shape.
Now as far as the fourth quarter is concerned the individual sales guidance that was provided during our comments was for Automotive Industrial and Electrical/Electronic to each be up 6% to 8% in the quarter and for Office Products to be in a range of down 1% to plus 1%.
This would give the total company an increase of 6% to 7% for the quarter and would put us up 5% to 6% for the year.
On the earnings side we remain comfortable with our prior full year guidance of $4 to $4.10 with a bias toward the middle part of the range and this would give us an EPS increase of 12% to 14% for the year.
And with full year sales being up 5% to 6% and earnings per share up 12% to 14% we feel that 2012 will turn out to be another respectable year for the GPC team.
So that will conclude our planned comments and we'll now turn back over to Dawn to take your questions.
Dawn? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I really just want to get into the Automotive sales acceleration that you expect from the fourth quarter.
If I'm doing this right you were up around 4% on a real basis in the third quarter.
And you think you'll up 6% to 8% in the fourth.
What gives you the confidence there? Is there a shift in how sales are running quarter-to-date is it acquisition did FX -- give us a roadmap there? Greg this is Tom and I think the primary difference is the fact that we were short 1 day in the third quarter but we get that day back in the fourth quarter so our expectation is that on a per day basis we'll see a little bit of an uptick from what we saw in the third quarter and then the benefit of that extra day.
We're actually expecting just a bit of improvement on a day-to-day basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So if that day was 150 bps in the third quarter it would be 150 bps help in the fourth quarter? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then secondly you mentioned on Auto the deflation.
It's been a while since we've seen deflation in that category if I remember correctly.
How should we expect that to flow through to the top line and gross margin? Greg just quickly the last time we saw deflation in Automotive was 2009.
And in terms of the effect on top line the levels that we're at we're down 30 basis points year-to-date.
That will be a pretty modest impact on that.
If we see further deflation obviously it'll be a little bit of a headwind but right now our expectation is a very modest impact.
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the auto sales question as well.
I mean as we think about the industry it's -- we're getting sort of conflicting signals of some weakness some relative stability.
Just curious what you're seeing in general you think in the end market there.
And also really just curious if you've seen anything change in inventory in the channel.
Is the inventory heavy or light and then hopefully at some point as we see a pickup would there be sort of an inventory pull-through for your auto sales numbers? Well John I'll take a first stab at that.
One thing to keep in mind is what Paul referenced in his comments and that's the geographic differences that we've experienced thus far this year with our cold weather operations being much more challenged than the remainder of the operations and it's a fairly significant delta in performance when we look at that.
And our expectation is that delta will start to reduce some as we work our way through the fourth quarter and on into next year.
In terms of what we're seeing in the end markets what we're hearing from some of our good installer customers pretty much mirrors what we've reported in our own results and they're talking about big [ph] counts the traffic actually holding relatively steady but the work orders the value of the work orders is under a little bit of pressure which we think is indicative of the consumer being a bit more discretionary with how they're spending their dollars currently.
On the inventory side of it we don't see any material difference in the inventory and keep in mind the main inventory that we would have would be at the store level and that has I think held pretty constant so we don't see any reduction nor do we see any opportunity for a great run-up in inventory.
At the installer level the commercial side of it there's very little inventory that's really held and we don't think that that's going to change one way or the other going forward.
Won't have any impact.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Jerry just on the new bank facility that's put in -- been put in place you said you've -- that has now been changed to a multicurrency facility.
So obviously that would help you out with Exego or any other international acquisitions in the future.
I'm just curious is the upsizing and changing that to a multicurrency facility really just in preparation of what may happen with Exego? Are there other international acquisitions that you guys see that could be real attractive to you in the future? Well we haven't seen any of any significant size.
We'd still be open to making it if made sense but this is primarily in preparation for the Exego transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 14% debt to cap that you're at right now obviously is  it's real solid and fairly low.
I mean would you be willing to take that up materially in the course of the Exego transaction or any other transaction? Yes we would if it made sense to maximize the shareholder value.
But yes we would -- if we do the Exego transaction we'll definitely have to have some debt.
Research Division</strong> So are you thinking about an absolute ceiling there in the 30% to 40% range or is it something much lower than that? It's lower than 30% to 40% but we've done a little work and it could -- if we had -- depending on our cash flow and how well we do in managing working capital it could be in the high -- in the mid-20% not high-20% range so.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess one of the questions I had is l this is really another follow-up on the auto commentary.
I guess Tom you've mentioned consumers seem to be a bit more discerning on their spending.
And I know this is an opinion but would you attribute that to weaker consumer spending trends? Maybe higher gas prices? Or do you think it's possible that consumers are potentially just doing less work maintenance and repair work on their vehicles because they're interested in new car sales at this point? I think and again it's just an opinion as you said my thought is that the consumer has a finite amount of discretionary spending and I think part of that may have been geared more toward electronics with the new iPhone or the new iPad or other electronic items.
I think part of it might have gone to back-to-school because it was a regionally good back-to-school season this year.
I think when it comes to the Automotive what we're seeing and what we're being told is that the repair that's absolutely critical or anything that affects drivability they're in fact getting done but then their bias is to try to do it for the least amount of money possible so if we look at our good better best product outflow we see strong performance in the good and better categories and less strong performance in the best product category.
And then we also see if there are multiple things that need to be worked on or should be worked on on the vehicle if it's not critical we're seeing deferral on some of that.
And we've some of this at times in the past and at least in the past what we've seen happen is there is a point in time when some of this maintenance that's been deferred winds up coming back into the aftermarket and we all have an opportunity to benefit from that.
LLC Research Division</strong> But have you seen that kind of reaction or behavior on the part of consumers let's call it any in the last 4 years? Well what we've seen going back to 2008 and '09 is we saw very significant evidence of deferral of the some of the items that needed to be purchased and we came back with strong overall industry results and good positive results for GPC in '10 and '11.
There is a question out there and you alluded to it and that is what's the impact of the increased vehicle sales this year and depending upon whose number I guess it'll be something let's call it $14.5 million.
If you look back to 2004 through 2007 we had anywhere from $16.1 million to I think it was $16.9 million in new car sales.
And all of those years were really good years for the aftermarket.
So we had a higher rate of new car sales on a base that's about the same as what it is today and the new car dealers benefited and the aftermarket performed well in that period of time.
Then we went into the recession and we saw new car sales go down aftermarket went down and the aftermarket has come back well in '10 and '11.
We see some of the geographic diversity that we see right now in 2012 and some of the consumer spending patterns that we think we're living through but the fundamentals as Paul pointed out the fundamentals are still generally positive and favorable and we'll see this thing come back to a more normal state I think as the quarters progress.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then just a quickie.
Jerry what was the size of the retirement plan adjustment? About $4.5 million $5 million.
The one positive about it was a negative adjustment in the third quarter of last year and it was a positive adjustment and the pickup this quarter was $3 million but we had a swing compared to the third quarter of last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'll stick with the auto thread here.
You talked about September being better on a per day basis.
Was that true versus July as well as August? And is there anything that you saw on the regional side or the category side that could either support or refute the weather thesis? Chris this is Paul.
I would just tell you that our September same-store business was low to mid-single-digit year-over-year.
So we did see a nice lift in September.
And that was across most of our divisions.
So even those divisions that -- those cold weather divisions that we mentioned the Central part of the country Midwest and Northeast saw a bit of a lift in September as well.
So we're encouraged and I would tell you that back to a question that Scot asked when you look at some of the things happening in the economy consumer confidence does seem to be growing somewhat at least that's what was reported in September and housing starts are moving in the right direction.
So there is -- there does seem to be a bit of optimism out here that we haven't seen in a while.
Research Division</strong> And that low to mid-single-digit per day compares to the 4% adjusted for the quarter -- for the third quarter? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay so a little bit.
So maybe if that was 4% so maybe a little bit better than 4% is what you're trying to say right? We'll stick with the low to mid-single digit there Chris.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And I was just curious on the brakes side of the business I think as a consumer I can understand batteries not failing because the cold and wipers perhaps as well.
I mean what's your view on the brake business whether that -- is that a macro thing? Or is that a weather thing because our understanding is brakes are pretty tough so will the weather actually result in improved sales in that category? The brake business as we understand it Chris it's been a challenge for us.
We've down low single digits for the year and it is geographical.
Certainly in those northern territories we have seen more of a decline in our brake business and we do believe that's weather-related.
And we do believe it's across the industry as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the Industrial side you talk about some haves and have-nots in terms of the category.
Is there anything changing in terms of some of the weaker categories some of that trend throughout the quarter? Well the 3 that I highlighted we saw a decelerating trend sequentially from Q1 through Q3.
I can't give you the specifics about the month sequence.
In terms of any changes we are seeing evidence that some of the housing-related industries have picked up just a little bit as Paul mentioned housing starts have gone up.
Some of the plywood mills are opening back up or increasing production so hopefully that's something that will sustain in the quarters ahead.
Where we see some weakness is where some of these companies are larger exporters and some of what's happening in the global economy is starting to have an impact on their North American production.
Research Division</strong> And then one final one just have you seen anything in terms of a drought impact in terms of some of your Ag customers? Absolutely absolutely.
So if you go into the farm communities you see some real impact there.
So that's had an impact both in Automotive as well as in our Industrial business.
Your next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Follow-up question on your comments about September being the best since March.
Within that and I think it was partially addressed earlier do you see an improvement in the maintenance category in that trend as well? It seems that Maintenance has underperformed failure industry-wide but are you seeing some improving demand in what had been lagging categories? Some modest improvement there yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess regionally and it's tough to look at it you said about 1/3 of your business was in the geographically more challenged markets.
And could you sort of break out the relative delta on that performance? Or maybe a way to look at it without doing that would be to give us some idea of the comp maybe for Quaker City year-over-year? I mean you didn't own it last year but if you could -- was it a positive comp or do we actually slide negative in some of these Eastern and East -- North Central markets? Well I'll take the first part of that Bret.
The northern divisions that we mentioned their comps are running low to mid-single-digit down year-over-year.
The balance of our business which is 6 divisions comprising the West Southwest Southern is up mid-single -- low to mid-single digits.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Vigneau with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Matt Fassler along with Matt Vigneau.
A couple questions here.
First of all as you think about the underlying run rate adjusted for days I want to confirm that the acquisition probably contributed a bit more this quarter than it did at the last quarter when you only had it in place for a partial period.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes that's right.
We had 2 months in the prior quarter 3 months this quarter.
Research Division</strong> So it's only 1 month difference so a fairly small difference.
And when you talk about the -- September being the best year-on-year performance that you had since March is that including or excluding the impact of the acquisition? In both cases.
On a per day basis if we look at average daily sales volume for the month of September the ongoing operations had a record as did the -- with the Quaker City but in Quaker City we had a very strong performance in September.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then secondly the Industrial -- there's been a lot of focus on the fourth quarter guidance for Automotive.
I want to look for a moment in Industrial with I guess 2 questions interrelated.
The first is that there seems to have been some disconnect between the macro factors that you used to project your business and the revenue growth that you reported.
And then if you could correct me if I'm wrong whether the extra day kind of hits Industrial similarly to the way it does Automotive such that x the day hit you would have been close to 6% and the acceleration you expect is not that substantial? The -- we were on a per day basis we were up 6.1% in the quarter on a per day basis.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the micro versus macro your numbers and your experience sequentially versus some of the macro indicators still looking good and your expectation that the third quarter represents kind of the lower bounds of performance.
Any insights that you have either trends through the quarter quarter to date that give you the confidence for that pick up? Well we're too early in this quarter to try to comment on any trends but some of the industries that we service the industry segments are very strong right now.
I mentioned Automotive as a for instance we're benefiting from the strength in the new car sales the improvement that we're seeing there.
The thing we don't know is what the impact is going to be for some of the companies or segments that are a little bit more export-dependent because we have seen deceleration there coal would be an example and primarily the Eastern coal has been really hard hit over the last couple of quarters and we don't know that it's going to come back this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just want to spend a little bit more time on the operating profit in motion with sales up $50 million but operating profit off by $2.5 million.
I know you called out some puts and takes there but maybe just spend another minute going through how you can see -- how you see that operating profit moving through the fourth quarter maybe early into next year? Brian this is Jerry.
If you look and Industrial business was 8% -- up 8% in sales in the second quarter and ending up 4.5% here in the third quarter and so we're not going to build inventory to get incentive.
And so we took in less incentives in the third quarter as we had through the 6 months and last time we did last year we're basically down slightly in incentives this third quarter compared to 2011.
So both of those contribute to that slowing in that growth and the operating margin in the quarter.
But if you look for the 9 months they're still doing a good job with their operating margin they're still up 20 basis points and we would expect to see that kind of improvement for the year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just going to the multicurrency facility again.
You've talked about Exego as a good opportunity on a kind of a go-forward basis and owning the 30% is kind of putting the balloon out there to see if you like the business or not.
With the multicurrency facility happening this early would it be appropriate to say that you're more than pleased with how Exego had gone this far? Yes we're more than pleased with how it's gone thus far but just because we did this facility at -- we had a facility of $350 million facility expiring in December.
We went ahead and got this out of the way and we can -- it's a 5-year facility.
So we can do it at this quarter we can do it in 5 quarters at whatever period.
We just took -- put that in there to be in a position to do whatever we needed to do.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just along those lines with the idea that Exego may not happen for a while given where the stock is given where the cash balance is and given some decent visibility on some improvement that you expect for Auto on a seasonal basis next year why wouldn't you become more aggressive on a -- to repurchase shares at this time? There's no reason.
And you may see that.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Shaun Kolnick on for Dave.
Are you seeing anything different in the competitive environment when it comes to auto parts from 3Q maybe to 2Q? I don't think we could say that we've seen it in that short a period.
What we're experiencing right now is what we go through periodically and that is when business slows up somewhat the competitive environment increases somewhat.
So it's a fairly normal pattern that we experience at times like these and this particular pattern is very consistent with what we've seen in past times.
Research Division</strong> Just one more on the AP to inventory side.
You had a pretty nice quarter up about 400 basis points.
Do you have any idea of how much further progress you might be able to make there? We can continue to make progress.
It's a difficult thing to tell you how much progress we can make.
We're going to continue work with our vendors in negotiating terms prices and everything.
That's just an ongoing priority for us.
Really don't have a number that I can give you that we're going we try for or try to reach but you'll see continued improvement there I think.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to jump back to Industrial.
As you talk to your customers and I know you guys have staff [ph] in the top 10 industries and what they're in [ph] the quarter what are they looking at in terms of their pace of business over the next 3 to 6 months? Is it accelerating decelerating or are they just uncertain? I think uncertainty would be more the answer and it's more because of the external uncertainty.
So there are people out there that are sitting waiting to make some capital expenditure decisions dependent upon how things develop over the next quarter or so.
So right now it's a little hard to answer that specifically Keith but that's what we're hearing from customer set.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that due to Europe or things more domestic? I think it's a combination of both honestly.
Obviously the domestic thing is more immediate with the election and then the fiscal cliff that may loom out there but then there's also a number of these companies that are dependent upon some demand in Europe that are bit uncertain as to what's going to happen there.
But that plays out more over a medium to longer term we think.
Your next question comes from the line of Efraim Levy with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
In the release you mentioned gains in certain industries which ones were the gainers and what were the drivers of those gains? I'm sorry can you repeat that? You broke up on us.
Sure.
You mentioned that there were -- in the press release that there were certain gains in certain industries you gained market share.
Which ones were the ones where you gained market share and what were the drivers of those gains? Well I would say that if we look across the 4 businesses we've performed at a minimum in line with the performance of the overall industries and perhaps we gained a little bit in each of the industries.
And if you look at Automotive as a for instance I think that if we look at the publicly traded companies in the aggregate the performance of each of the companies would suggest that we might be gaining as a group a bit at the expense of the non-publicly traded companies as a general statement.
Then in terms of the other businesses we just have to look at our performance directly with our publicly traded competitors and see how they stack up.
But I think overall our teams are doing a pretty good job of holding their own at a minimum and maybe improving their position in a few cases.
You'd say it's largely execution driven nothing That's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Rakers with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> This is Anjali Voria in for Brent Rakers.
I know you talked a little bit about the Office op margin lift that you saw in the quarter.
Could you talk a little bit further maybe give a little bit more clarity on that side of the equation especially when you're seeing growth from independents flowing? I'm trying to assess where that list is coming from.
And then also as a follow-up do you think you'll see that typical lift in Q4 on both the Office and Motion side please? I don't think you're going to see a continued lift in the margins at the Office Parts side.
Where that's coming from is not in the gross margin side of things it's coming in the expense reduction and infrastructure costs adjustments that they're making there.
They've been in a depressed sales environment for some time and the management team there is doing a good job of taking their cost out and they're going to continue to focus on taking further cost out until they see revenue recovery.
But I don't -- you're not going to continue to see movement up in it but I think it -- we would be pleased really if the Office Products side would just continue to hold their margin.
They were 7.6% for the 9 months and we would expect them to maintain that for the full year.
In the Industrial side we were up 20 basis points for the 9 months and there's no reason to think that they can't maintain that for the full year but that's going to be dependent upon what kind of revenue growth they get and I'm sure that they'll do a good job leveraging their expenses off of that revenue growth.
Your final question is a follow-up question from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> On these sales again in Auto I just want to make sure that the up low to mid-single digits that compares to the 1% same-store sales in the quarter or to the overall sales? Greg we're going to have to dance around that question.
We -- what we'll have to do is research that and get you an answer if you don't mind Sid or I will work back with you on that one.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess another one sort of a straightforward about the quarter is how much did FX hurt and how much did Quaker City help? Well we haven't given those out specifically but if we net the impact of Quaker City against the 1 less day and the negative in FX net-net it had a 1% positive for us in the quarter.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn it back over to the presenters for any closing remarks.
Dawn thank you.
We appreciate each of you joining us on the call today and we appreciate your continued interest in and support of Genuine Parts Company.
We look forward with talking with you in future if not before then certainly when we report our fourth quarter and year-end results in February.
Thanks for joining us.
This concludes today's third quarter 2012 Genuine Parts Earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Chris and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company 2012 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carol Yancey Executive Vice President Finance and Corporate Secretary.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts Fourth Quarter  Conference Call to discuss our earnings results and the outlook for 2013.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Carol and I would add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
This is a significant call for us in many ways but none more so than the fact that this is Jerry Nix's final call.
As you know Jerry will be retiring at the end the month after 34 years with Genuine Parts Company the last 13 as our Chief Financial Officer.
And in looking back it's interesting to note that Jerry has been on every quarterly conference call since we began doing them in February of 2011 so today is Jerry's 49th call.
He's also been on every investor trip and involved in every analyst meeting for over 25 years and I think it's fair to say that Jerry has been the face of GPC with the investment community.
And he has earned the respect and the admiration of all that he has come in contact with both inside and outside of our company.
He will be missed but we're grateful to him for all that he has contributed to our company over the last 34 years.
Now we are fortunate to have Carol Yancey taking over as our Chief Financial Officer when Jerry retires and many of you know Carol because she's been a part of GPC for 22 years.
And along the way she's spent several years as Director of Investor Relations.
Over the past several years she and Jerry have worked very closely together preparing for this transition and she is very well-qualified to be moving into the CFO role.
Jerry and Carol will split the reporting duties today; and Paul Donahue who is also on the call and he'll give us an update on the performance of the Automotive operations.
Early this morning we released our fourth quarter  and year-end 2012 results.
And hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may have not seen the numbers as yet the quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $3 119 000 000 which was up 3.5%.
Net income was $160.2 million which was up 19%.
And earnings per share were $1.03 this year compared to $0.86 in the fourth quarter of 2011 and EPS increase was 20%.
And this enabled us to end 2012 with sales of  $13 014 000 000 which was up 4.5%.
Net income was $648 million which was up 15%.
And earnings per share were $4.14 this year compared to $3.58 last year and that's an EPS increase of 16%.
These are all records for us in sales net income and earnings per share.
But clearly we continue to experience some top line challenges in the fourth quarter and they were a bit more pronounced in the Industrial and Electrical segments.
Although the 3.5% revenue increase in Q4 was our softest revenue quarter of the year we were pleased that our folks operated well and still produced double-digit increases in operating profit net income and earnings per share for the quarter and for the year.
A review of the sales results by business segment shows that our Industrial business was up 2% in the quarter and up 7% for the year.
After being up 22% in 2010 and 19% in 2011 a 7% increase in 2012 shows meaningful deceleration.
And then looking back over the course of the year we saw demand moderation as the year progressed.
After being up 12% in the first quarter the Industrial operations were up 8% in Q2 4.5% in Q3 and 2% in Q4.
These trends are consistent with what we have seen across the industry and it's interesting to note that the fourth quarter slowdown became a bit more pronounced in the final weeks of the year.
Power transmission hydraulics and electrical and automation products were among the best performers from the product category for the year.
And automotive iron and steel lumber and wood products were among our top-performing customer segments.
Conversely customers in the coal aggregate and cement equipment and machinery and equipment rental and leasing segments lagged our overall performance for the year.
As we look at the predictive indices like industrial production and capacity utilization we see that they remain at historically healthy levels which is encouraging.
At the same time however a more cautious attitude seems to have developed among our customer base over the latter part of the year and our expectation is that this will carry over into the early part of 2013.
With that said however we do feel that the manufacturing segment of the economy which is our customer base is generally healthy and growing and this bodes well for our Industrial business in the year ahead.
Staying within the manufacturing sector of the economy EIS our Electrical/Electronic distributor also experienced a sharp slowdown in the fourth quarter.
After being up 5% in Q1 and then 9% in the second quarter followed by a 5% increase in the third quarter EIS was down 2% in the fourth quarter and ended the year up 5%.
And as with Motion the latter part of the fourth quarter proved to be the most challenging.
One of the external indices that we closely follow is the Institute for Supply Management Purchasing Managers' Index.
This is usually a pretty good leading indicator for our Electrical business.
As a matter of information the PMI averaged 57.3 for all of 2010 and our Electrical business was up 30%.
In 2011 the PMI averaged 55.2 and we were up 24%.
For 2012 the full year PMI was 51.7 or perhaps more significant is the fact that the last 7 months of 2012 the average has been 50.4.
This is a fairly typical number and it's indicative of the slower end-market conditions that our Electrical/Electronic operations are experiencing right now.
As with our Industrial business we think that these conditions will persist for another quarter or 2 but we remain optimistic about our Electrical segment turning in a solid performance in 2013.
Moving on to Office Products.
We actually had our best quarter of the year in Q4.
After being down 1.5% in the first quarter and down 1% in quarters 2 and 3 S.P.
Richards was up 3% in the final quarter and this enabled them to end the year even with the prior year.
Both the independent dealers and the Mega customers had positive results in the fourth quarter which was good to see.
And on the product side cleaning and break-room and furniture had the strongest results in the quarter.
We were pleased to all 4 product categories cleaning and break-room furniture technology and office supplies end the year with positive fourth quarter results.
Although the Office Products environment continues to be challenging with the plans and initiatives that S.P.
Richards has in place we look for a year of moderate growth from this segment of our business in 2013.
So that's a brief overview of our Industrial Electrical and Office Products businesses.
And at this point I will ask Paul to give you an update on the Automotive operations.
Paul? Thank you Tom and I'd like to add my welcome to each of you this morning.
I'm pleased to join Jerry Carol and Tom and to have the opportunity to provide an update on the fourth quarter performance of our North American Automotive business.
As you know Automotive is the company's largest business segment.
And we ended the fourth quarter with sales up 5% which has improved from the 2.5% growth that we reported for the third quarter.
For the 12 months ended December 31 our Automotive business finished up 4% over 2011.
The 5% revenue growth in the fourth quarter includes relatively flat comparable store sales and a positive sales contribution from our acquisition of Quaker City Motor Parts.
Sales to our commercial accounts the dominant segment of our business continued to outpace our retail sales.
We did not see significant changes in the external factors which continue to impact our industry in the quarter headwinds related to the mild winter temperatures in the northern half of the country along with the ongoing uncertainties surrounding the economy and consumer confidence seemed to persist.
Consistent with the past 2 quarters our results varied significantly by region of the quarter -- by the region of the country in the fourth quarter.
In the traditional cold weather regions our Central Midwest and Eastern divisions which comprised over 1/3 of our overall business they consistently underperformed the other regions across the U.S.
Although the comps from these regions were consistent on a sequential basis the regional disparity remained significant and impacted key weather-sensitive product categories in these regions.
On a positive note we believe that a return to more normal winter weather patterns which we are beginning to see play out should drive a potential upswing in demand over the next several months.
We remain pleased with the positive contribution from Quaker City Motor Parts which we acquired back on May 1 of this year -- of 2012.
Their fourth quarter and year-to-date sales contributions were in line with our expectations and we are excited with the opportunities that Quaker City will provide us in the future.
Our Quaker City team and our strong group of independent owners are energized and focused on our key initiatives to drive growth in 2013.
As we mentioned earlier our commercial business continued to outperform our retail business in the fourth quarter.
Within our company-owned store group the commercial side of our business ended the quarter up 1% consistent with our growth in this segment in the second and third quarters.
Non-fleet-related business performed reasonably well generating a 4% increase led by our NAPA AutoCare and our Major Account business.
The increase in our average ticket value drove the gain while our average number of invoices was flat.
Turning to our retail business.
Sales were down mid-single digits in the quarter.
So while we are not pleased with our retail performance we are encouraged by the initiatives our team has put into place to positively impact our retail sales in 2013.
We have seen over the past few quarters a slight downward trend in our average number of invoices per day while our average dollar value increased.
We believe this to be consistent with retail sales trends both in the aftermarket and retail in general.
So as we look forward to 2013 we expect a more normalized winter weather pattern to improve demand.
We are pleased to note that while it's still early in the year we are seeing improved sales trends in the northern half of the U.S.
We are also seeing a pickup in sales in some of our winter-related product categories such as our batteries and our rotating electrical categories.
The aging vehicle population continued growth in the number of older vehicles and the positive year-over-year miles driven numbers up 0.006% through November bodes well for the automotive aftermarket.
And we feel NAPA is well positioned to capture its share of the increase in demand generated by these positive trends.
So in summary overall demand in the automotive aftermarket in the fourth quarter proved similar to what we experienced in the second and third quarters of 2012.
We remain positive about the core fundamentals impacting the automotive aftermarket and our Automotive Parts Group.
These positive industry fundamentals coupled with our internal growth initiatives provide us ample growth opportunities for 2013 and well into the future.
So that completes our overview of the Automotive business in the fourth quarter and for 2012.
And at this time I will hand it over to Jerry to get us started with our review of the financial results.
Jerry? Thank you Paul.
And Tom I want to thank you as well for those kind remarks.
It's been a lot of years and a lot of calls and we've built many great relationships which I'll certainly miss.
And most important is that Genuine Parts is in good hands with Tom and Paul and so many other excellent leaders across our businesses.
Certainly Carol fits in in that category and we're very fortunate to have her assume the role of CFO.
Carol and I worked together for all of her 22 years with the company and I can tell you she is one of the best and brightest and very prepared to lead this company as CFO.
So we appreciate you joining us on the call today.
And to move things along I will first review the fourth quarter and full year income statements and segment information and then Carol will pick up to review a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open up the call up to your questions.
The view of the income statement show the following: Total sales of $3.1 billion for the fourth quarter and that's an increase of 3.5% from last year and is relatively consistent with the third quarter increase.
For the year total sales reached another record high of $13.0 billion which is up 4.5% from 2011.
Although the sales environment grew more challenging for our Industrial and Electrical businesses in the fourth quarter our Automotive sales held steady and the Office Products Group posted their best quarterly results for the year.
We remain confident in our growth initiatives and are planning on another year of respectable sales growth again in 2013.
Gross profit for the fourth quarter was 29.2% of sales and that's down approximately 40 basis points from the fourth quarter and 2011.
But for the full year gross margin of 29.0% was up about 10 basis points from 28.9% in 2011.
So despite the decrease we experienced in the fourth quarter which we attribute that to the competitive sales environment overall and lower levels of vendor incentives at the Industrial Parts Group we're pleased to show at least slight progress with gross margin for the year.
Our ongoing initiatives to effectively manage the supply chain cost increase distribution efficiencies and maximize our pricing potential offer us additional opportunities to further improve our gross margin and our management teams across all of the businesses are committed to this effort.
For the year our cumulative pricing which represents prior increases to us was a negative 0.003% in Automotive plus 1.6% in Industrial plus 2.7% in Office Products and a negative 0.001% in Electrical.
Now turning to SG&amp;A.
Total expenses $659 million in the fourth quarter is down 2% from 2011 and at 21.1% of sales versus 22.6% in the fourth quarter last year.
For the year total SG&amp;A expenses $2.8 billion that's up 2% and at 21.2% of total sales compared to 21.8% for the same period in 2011.
Our management teams have done an excellent job of managing our expenses throughout the year and our ongoing cost saving initiatives have yield much of the improvement on this line.
We continue to control our cost from ongoing investments in technology which has positively impacted the operating efficiencies in our distribution centers and stores as well as supply chain initiatives in such areas as freight and logistics among others.
Additionally in December of 2012 the company's pension plan was amended to freeze future benefit accruals for all participants effective January 1 2014.
In connection with this amendment the company recorded onetime noncash curtailment gain of $23.5 million which is included on our SG&amp;A line for the fourth quarter and the year.
So throughout the organization we made solid progress in controlling our expenses and we'll continue to assess and align the proper cost structure of our businesses as we move through the year and beyond.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
For the fourth quarter Automotive had revenue of $1 531.6 million up 5%; and operating profit of $122.5 million up 36%.
So outstanding margin expansion there from 6.2% to 8.0% of sales.
The Industrial Group for the quarter had revenue $1 054.8 million up 2%; operating profit $78.1 million that's down 12%.
So margin degradation there from 8.6% to 7.4%.
Office Products had revenue for the quarter $402.9 million that's up 3%; and had operating profit of $36.4 million that's down 5%.
So again margin deterioration from 9.7% to 9.0% which is still outstanding operating margin for that business.
Electrical Group had revenue in the quarter of $135.4 million.
That was down 2%.
They had operating profit of $12.5 million and that's up 21%.
So just superb operating there going from 7.5% to 9.2% operating margins in the quarter.
Now for the year Automotive had revenue $6 320.9 million and that represents 49% of the total and is up 4%; operating profit of $540.7 million up 16%.
So again just super margin 8.6% from 7.7% of revenue the prior year.
The Industrial Group had revenue for the year of $4 453.6 million and that represents 34% of the total and is up 7%.
The operating profit $352.1 million is up 4%.
So slight margin decrease  there from 8.1% to 7.9%.
Office Products had revenue for the full year of $1 686.7 million represents 13% of the total and was down 0.002%.
They had operating profit of $134.4 million and that was up 0.002%.
So a slight margin improvement for the year of 7.9% to 8.0% of sales.
The Electrical Group had revenue for the full year $582.8 million representing 44% of the total and that's up 4.5%; and operating profit of $50.9 million up 25%.
So record operating margin for the Electrical Group at 8.7% of sales.
Total operating profit was up approximately 10% in the fourth quarter and operating profit margin improved 50 basis points to 8.0% from 7.5% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Now this follows margin improvement of 70 40 and 20 basis points for the first second and third quarters of 2012 respectively.
Our total operating margin for the year is 8.3% and that's up 40 basis points from 7.9% last year.
We're extremely pleased with this level of margin expansion and continue to believe that we have additional opportunities to expand the operating margins again in 2013 although more likely in the range of 10 to 20 basis points.
We had net interest expense of $4.9 million and $19.6 million for the fourth quarter and the year respectively which is down from 2011 due mainly to the new lower interest rate on our $250 million debt agreement that was funded in November of 2011.
We'll discuss our debt position later but we're currently expect our net interest expense to approximate $28 million again in 2013.
Beginning in this quarter we separated our amortization from the other category as our amortization of intangibles was more significant in 2012 due to the Quaker City acquisition.
Total amortization expense was approximately $4 million and $13 million for the fourth quarter and the year respectively.
The other line now represents corporate expense and noncontrolling interest and was $11.2 million in income for the fourth quarter and is $26.6 million expense for the full year.
This is much improved from 2011 and primarily reflects the pension curtailment gain discussed above.
Additionally the income associated with our 30% investment in Exego was accounted for on this line.
For 2013 we currently project the combination of the amortization and other lines to be in the $60 million and $70 million expense range which will be relatively consistent with 2012 before the curtailment adjustment.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.4% and that's up from 35.8% last year due to the nontaxable status of a favorable retirement plan adjustment that was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year 36.4% rate compares to 36.6% for the same period in 2011 and we expect our full year tax rate for 2013 to be in the range of 36.0% to 36.5%.
Net income for the quarter $160.2 million and that's up 19%.
EPS increased to $1.03 compared to $0.86 last year and that's up 20%.
For the year net income is up 15%.
EPS of $4.14 is up 16% over 2011.
Excluding December 2012 pension curtailment gain discussed earlier net income was up 8% to $145 million for the fourth quarter and was up 12% to $633 million for the year.
EPS before the adjustment was up 8% to $0.93 for the quarter and was up 13% to $4.05 for the year.
Now this record level of earnings achieved in 2012 both before and after the pension gain reflects the third consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth for the company.
We want to recognize all of our associates at Genuine Parts Company for achieving this significant milestone.
We're extremely proud of their accomplishments.
So with that I'll turn it over to Carol to touch on a few key balance sheet items.
Thank you Jerry.
And before I begin my remarks I want to thank everyone for the tremendous opportunity.
I'm very appreciative and it's been nothing but a pleasure to work with Jerry for all these years.
We've had a very well-planned and prepared transition and I look forward to the opportunity.
We'll start off with a discussion of a few key balance sheet items.
Cash at December 31 was strong at $403 million which is consistent with our cash position at September 30 although down from the $525 million at December 31 2011.
Our current cash position reflects strong cash flows for 2012 resulting from our increase in earnings effective asset management and cost reductions.
This was offset by the more than $500 million used in 2012 for several investing activities including our January 1 investment in Exego the leading automotive distribution company in Australia and New Zealand; the Electrical Group's Light Fab acquisition on February 1; and the Automotive Group's Quaker City acquisition that was May 1.
Accounts receivable of $1.5 billion at December 31 increased 2% from 2011 on a 3.5% sales increase for the fourth quarter.
Our goal is to grow receivables at a rate less than revenue growth so we are very encouraged by our progress with receivables.
We will continue to remain focused on this area in 2013 and we're very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Inventory at December 31 2012 was $2.6 billion up approximately 7% compared to December 31 2011.
Primarily this increase relates to the impact of our acquisitions in 2012.
And without acquisitions our inventory grew by just 2%.
We continue to believe that our team is doing an excellent job of managing our inventory levels and we remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move through 2013.
Now we will add here that our comparisons to the prior year's inventory reflect the revisions to our 2011 balance sheet that we previously disclosed in our third quarter 10-Q.
Our accounts payable balance at December 31 was $1.7 billion which is up 17% from the prior year.
The significant increase in trade payables reflects the impact of our extended payment terms and other payables initiatives negotiated with our vendors.
We're very pleased with our progress in this area.
Improving our payables position has always been an important priority for us over the last couple of years and it's had a positive impact on our days and payables.
Working capital of $2.3 billion at December 31 is down approximately 15% from December of 2011 as reported.
It's also down 6% on a comparative basis which takes into account our current debt of $250 million.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is very important to us and our ongoing progress with these key accounts has had a tremendous impact on improving our working capital position and cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at December 31 2012.
Our total debt at year end remains unchanged at $500 million.
The $250 million of total debt that's due in November of 2013 is accounted for as current debt at the end of December 31.
While we have not announced any specific plans for this debt beyond the due date we will most likely renew the debt amount later this year.
There's another $250 million debt that is due in November of 2016.
Our total debt to total capitalization at December 31 2012 was 14.3%.
And although comfortable with our current capital structure we want to remind you that in September of 2012 we entered into a multicurrency syndicated credit facility agreement for $850 million.
This agreement which carries a 5-year term and an interest rate of LIBOR plus 75 basis points replaced the $350 million unsecured revolving line of credit that was scheduled to mature in December of 2012.
This new facility provides us with expanded borrowing capacities to support our growth opportunities as may be needed from time to time.
There were no amounts borrowed under this new agreement at December 31 2012.
The company continues to generate solid cash flows.
And as we mentioned earlier 2012 was a very strong year for us.
Cash from operations reached over $900 million a new record for us.
And free cash flow after deducting capital expenditures and dividends was approximately $500 million also a new record.
The continued strength of our cash flows is encouraging and we remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for the cash is the dividend which we have paid every year since going public in 1948 and we've now raised for 57th consecutive years effective with yesterday's board approval of a $2.15 per share annual dividend for 2013.
This represents a 9% increase from the $1.98 per share paid in 2012 and it's approximately 52% of our 2012 earnings per share.
This is well within our goal of a 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our core businesses.
Strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures was $30.4 million for the fourth quarter.
And for the full year total CapEx spending was $102 million compared to the $103.5 million for the same period in the prior year.
This was at the low end of our expected range for 2012.
And based on the timing of certain projects and overall plans for this year we expect our cash use for CapEx for 2013 to be in the range of $115 million to $135 million.
The vast majority of these investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Our depreciation and amortization was $25.1 million in the quarter and it's $98.4 million for the year which is up slightly from 2011.
Turning to 2013 we would anticipate another increase primarily related to amortization and also the increased capital spending.
We are currently expecting depreciation and amortization to be approximately $105 million to $115 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of our cash for us and they're integral to growth plans for the company.
Our investment in Exego and Quaker City in the Automotive Group as well as a small acquisition in the Electrical Group performed as planned throughout 2012 and we're encouraged by their continued growth opportunities.
We will remain active in seeking new acquisitions for our businesses in 2013 generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally in 2012 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 1.4 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program.
We have another 12.2 million shares authorized and available for repurchase today.
While we have no set pattern for these repurchases we would expect to be active in the program again in 2013 as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
In closing we want to be sure and thank all of our GPC associates for the great job they are doing.
Another year of record sales and earnings is a great accomplishment and one we are very proud of.
The company entered 2013 well positioned for continued growth in our businesses.
And as always we'll support our growth with strong cash flow a healthy balance sheet and further maximizing our return to shareholders.
Tom? Thank you Paul Jerry and Carol.
And Jerry once again thank you for being such a significant contributor to the overall success of Genuine Parts Company over the years.
We wish you and Cheryl the absolute very best in the years ahead.
Now summarizing our view on 2012 we feel that the GPC team has a lot to be proud of.
Among the positive accomplishments this past year where sales net profit and earnings per share records and operating margin improvement of 40 basis points to 8.3%.
Cash from operations and free cash flow set new records as well.
Working capital was reduced roughly 6% and working capital efficiency improved to an all-time low.
Both return on average assets and return on invested capital also showed nice improvement once again in 2012.
And with the actions taken yesterday by our board dividends have been increased for the 57th consecutive year.
So we feel good about the GPC team's achievements in each of these areas.
The one area where we did not perform as well as we would have liked is on the growth side.
After being up 11% in both 2010 and 2011 we went into 2012 expecting more than a 4.5% sales increase.
But after a solid first quarter we saw moderation as the year progressed reflective of the overall industry slowdown that we saw in our respective businesses.
As we look towards 2013 we see market conditions being quite similar at least over the first half to what we experienced in the second half of 2012 and our expectation is for modest growth in each of the 4 industries that we operate in during the first half of the year and a bit stronger growth in the second half.
This seems to be consistent with the general consensus for the overall economy in the year ahead.
With that said our expectation is for revenue growth in Automotive for the full year of 5% to 7%; Industrial 4% to 6%; Electrical also 4% to 6%; and Office Products 1% to 3%.
And this would give us total revenue growth of 4% to 6% for the year.
And with revenue growth at this level our guidance would be for earnings per share to be in the $4.30 to $4.40 which will be up 6% to 9% over the $4.05 earned in 2012 prior to the curtailment gain.
So that will conclude our prepared remarks.
And at this point we'll turn the call back over to Chris for your questions.
Chris? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Jerry.
We'll certainly miss you out on the road and on the calls.
Thank you Chris.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to start with the Automotive side.
It was really encouraging to hear that the northern part of the country is starting to see some improvement and starting to see it in batteries and rotating electrical.
As you think about last year I mean did you see a lot of pull-forward in spring demand because of the warm weather in January February March? And does that mean that we have to sort of wait to 2Q for some of these trends to really emerge and see some acceleration in the top line in Auto? Yes Chris this is Paul.
Just a couple of comments and your question is a valid one.
Our 3 divisions that make up the northern tier the Central Eastern and Midwestern division they had a very solid first quarter last year.
And absolutely looking back now we can see that business was pulled forward because sequentially then Q2 Q3 and Q4 were soft and mid- single-digit soft in the Q3 and Q4.
But I am pleased to see -- again it's only 1 month but those 3 divisions have rebounded nicely in the month of January led really by the Midwest division which is up significantly.
So we're cautiously optimistic Chris that we're going to see some growth out of the northern half the country this year.
Research Division</strong> And have you seen much on the brakes and rotor side? Brakes and rotors was a challenging category for us last year.
We put some things into place that we hope we'll see a rebound in 2013 but that was one of the categories that absolutely was impacted in 2012.
And Chris you mentioned batteries and rotating electrical on the flip side those are very strong for us in 2012 as we're a few other categories like tool and equipment for instance and our filter business was good last year.
So we're hoping to see and we plan to see our brake business come back in 2013.
Paul I think that -- Chris sorry I'd just add to that we did not see any material improvement in the brake and rotor business in January.
And our expectation is we'll start to see some improvement as we work our way through the year.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then on the EBIT margin side in Automotive could you delve into that a little more closely in terms of what drove that expansion? Was that Quaker synergies? Was that vendor allowances? Certainly there was some upside surprise there so just wanted to get some details.
Chris this is Jerry.
We had favorable inventory gains in the fourth quarter and you'll see where -- that's where most of that margin improvement.
They were up 50 basis points through the 9 months.
They also had significant cost reduction initiatives taken place and they took $20 million $25 million of cost out.
So between -- and there were some year-end write-backs we accrued bad debt expense based on a percent of sales.
And our bad debt expense when we got down to actual write-off was less than it was the prior year.
So those are the 3 major contributors to that improvement.
Research Division</strong> And how should we think about EBIT margin expansion going forward? Or how much of that is sustainable? Well look the cost reductions that they took out are sustainable and they also have additional cost reductions in place now.
I'm certain that we're not going to show that kind of improvement in our bad debt expense coming off but we should see another 10 20 basis points operating margin improvement.
That's always what we look for.
The next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Jerry again congrats and thanks for everything.
Thanks Greg.
I appreciate it.
Research Division</strong> Cathy (sic) [Carol] you mentioned inventory was up 2% when you adjust the balance sheet for acquisitions.
Could you give us the payables and receivables as well adjusted for acquisitions? The impact on the payables was not as significant.
It's about $50 million on the payables line.
And on receivables it was about $30 million on the receivables line.
But clearly the bigger number was on the inventory line.
Most of our receivables improvement was really as a result of some of our improved terms with our vendors that we talked about.
That really drove the bulk of that increase.
On the payables.
On the payables.
Research Division</strong> And then Paul a little bit on the sales trends you saw on the fourth quarter.
If I remember there were some nuances of a day shift in terms of sales.
Thought we might get back in the fourth quarter and it seems like we didn't if we look at the comp store sales.
Could you help us sort of understand that sort of flattish comp versus up a little bit in the third quarter and what really drove that sequential decline? Yes Greg good question.
And you're right there was an extra billing day in the quarter.
What I think we may have underestimated a bit was how the holidays fell this year versus last year with Christmas falling on a Tuesday versus a Sunday prior year.
We may have given back a portion of or all of that extra day that we got in the quarter.
So I think we underestimated that a bit.
December was soft for us there's no doubt.
And when we reported last we were coming out of the month of September and we saw a nice increase in the month of September.
And certainly we're hopeful that that was going to carry on into Q4.
But certainly that wasn't the case.
And again I think that the initiatives that our team has in place going into 2013 we're optimistic about -- cautiously optimistic about getting our sales back in line in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And lastly on inflation-deflation [indiscernible] in Auto in particular the negative 0.3 that was the same as the third quarter.
Could you give us some insight as to where you think that will play out this year? Do we go back to a little bit of inflation in Auto Parts? Greg this is Tom.
I'll try to answer that.
At this point I would say that we may get a little bit more inflation across each of the businesses in 2013.
Automotive we are seeing some discussion about price increases as we work our way a little deeper into the year.
So I would expect that we will have modest inflation in Automotive but not materially so.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lovallo with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Jerry best of luck to you.
Thanks again John.
Research Division</strong> Okay to start off from the industrial customer -- from your industrial customers do you get a sense that the uncertainty that they're talking about is really attributable to government policy and kind of uncertainty around that? Or is it really more core to the business environment? I think it's more the former than the latter.
There is a heightened sense of concern with the unknown at this point.
And it might be helpful to you to know that on our project work we've not seen any cancellations to this point.
But we have seen these be pushed out 1 quarter or 2 which I think again underscores the uncertainty.
I think people are saying until we get a little more clarity we're just going to be very cautious in how we spend money.
So the fact that we're being pushed out could eventually lead to some cancellations.
But at this point we've not been notified of any.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then given that there could be some top line pressure in Industrial and EIS at least in the first couple of quarters is there anything you can do from a cost structure basis to kind of offset that? Well yes and I think our teams have done a good job over the last couple of years in helping to reduce our cost structure.
And when we see periods like this where things seem to slow up a bit then they tighten up on the cost side a bit as well.
So there are some actions already underway to try to keep cost more in line with where the revenue is going to be.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last one just on the interest expense guidance I missed that.
Would you mind repeating that please? Well we currently estimate interest expense to be around $20 million for 2013 with the two $250 million tranches we talked about.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scot Ciccarelli.
I know you said there was a sizable difference between let's call it traditional cold weather markets and the rest of the business for Auto.
Can you get any more specific than that? Scot this is Paul.
The impact in Q4 was about 300 basis points impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> So that's a more narrow gap than what we've seen over the last couple of quarters.
Correct? Well actually it's fairly consistent.
We're  running down in those 3 divisions -- I'm talking about the impact on the overall business.
So those 3 divisions of our company we're running mid- single digit down in Q4 versus a slight uptick in the balance of our business.
LLC Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay understood.
But you understand the overall impact? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
That's kind of what I was trying to get to.
Okay.
And then also just regarding -- I know we talked about the Auto EBIT margins a little bit.
We did see the EBIT margin for Industrial compress a little bit.
What's the right way to think about that going forward? I mean is that another basis point improvement like we expect in auto? Or will the current revenue trends maybe prevent that from occurring this year? Scot this is Tom.
I would say that first of all our expectation is that the revenue trends will improve somewhat as the year progresses.
But I think in terms of modeling I would look for a 10 to 20 basis point improvement in the Industrial margins for the full year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that because that's going to be natural leverage? Is that because you guys are trying to take cost out like you took out of Auto? Just trying to figure out what's the -- what are the various moving pieces there Tom? Well we're counting on a little bit stronger revenue growth not so much in the first quarter or 2 but more so in the second half of the year.
There are ongoing cost containment cost reduction initiatives that are taking place there.
There's a fair amount of work that's being done on the margin side of the business the gross margin side of the business.
So hopefully we'll see a little bit of improvement in that through the course of the year.
So there are a number of levers that are being pulled on simultaneously to try to ensure that we have show margin improvement.
I think if you go back and look at the Industrial performance sequentially over the course of the year.
Q1 and Q2 we were running pretty strong revenue increases 12% and 8% respectively.
And then we saw really good margin improvement through the first half of the year and then we gave that back and then a little bit more as we got to the back half of the year.
But our expectation is maybe the inverse for 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jerry I will miss you very much.
It's always a pleasure working with you over the years.
Thank you Matt.
You're the man.
Research Division</strong> So first of all on Automotive.
Obviously we've picked this sector over a bit already this morning.
But if you look at differences in DIY or retail and the traditional commercial business anything related to car age and sort of the target customer -- target car that is within those segments that as you look at the numbers and the stagnancy in retail that you think might be kind of attributable to something structural like that? Matt this is Tom.
I don't think there's anything that's changed significantly enough to cause any material change in the performance over a short span of time.
Paul mentioned in his comments on the commercial side of the business if we move fleet aside for a moment and I'll come back to fleet in a moment but if you move that to the side in the quarter our non-fleet-related commercial business was actually up mid-single digit which I think in the current environment is a pretty good performance.
But what we've seen on that side of the business is that we see that our ticket value has increased some but the ticket count is actually flattish.
So that would indicate to us that it's somewhat driven by consumer discretionary spending habit at this point.
If we go over to the fleet side of the business the fleet side of the business actually started to show signs of moderating as we get deep into the second quarter of the year and then quarters 3 and 4 the fleet business actually had a little bit of deceleration.
And that's consistent with what we see across the industry and is consistent with what we see in some of the indices.
If you look at the transportation service index you'll see that that decelerated sequentially as the year progressed and actually went into negative territory in the latter part of the year.
So I don't think at this point we've seen any material change structurally in the business.
I think it may be more driven by consumer spending.
And I think that may continue for another quarter or 2 as we continue to digest the effect of maybe some higher fuel prices and also the increased payroll tax that people are adjusting to.
Research Division</strong> Tom either for you or Paul to the extent that you've seen some recovery in cold weather markets and cold weather products is that happening evenly across both retail and commercial? Or is it biased towards one of the segments? Matt this is Paul.
At this point in time it's early.
But at this point in time it's certainly more on the commercial side than the retail side.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious kind of functionally given that everyone's cars kind of do the same thing.
Is it because of the kinds of transactions that are driven by cold weather perhaps failure tend to show themselves more at commercial? Or will there be some other reason for that? I think a part of the reason Matt.
But the other thing is I think the commercial is a bit stronger in the areas that we're talking about and retail maybe a bit stronger in the Sun Belt-related areas.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a final cleanup question on the guidance side the $4.30 to $4.40 of 2013 EPS.
Is there buyback assumption embedded in that number please? No.
Our buyback plan Matt just to further amplify at a minimum we want to buy back the number of shares that we issue under our long-term incentive grants.
We want to avoid any dilution there.
So I think you could model something along the lines of $1.2 million $1.3 million in line with what we did this year.
Research Division</strong> But there's no embedded share count reduction above and beyond that in that number? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> To you Jerry again congratulations and best wishes.
Thanks again Brian.
Inc.</strong> Just want to talk about Exego for a couple of minutes here.
Just from a point of clarification that's now on the other line as far as when you're breaking out your operating segments correct? Yes yes.
That's right.
Inc.</strong> First of all how are we trending on Exego as far as hitting your targets for profitability where you consider rolling up the business? They're actually ahead of plan.
And if we go back to our original expectation we thought that they would get to the level sometime late 2013 or early 2014.
They're actually going to get there a little bit sooner and it will be at that point that we'll have a decision to make.
And just so you understand from the point that they actually hit the threshold we've got up to 6 months to exercise our right.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Terrific.
And then -- most of my questions have been answered but there's speculation about 2 of your major customers in the Office Products side potentially getting together.
If this were to be the case do you think you'd see some pricing pressure within the Office Products division that could potentially hurt your margins? Inc.</strong> Well that's speculative at this point.
I'd say first of all this has been something that has long been speculated and it appears that there's some substance to it right now.
Looking at the medium to long term if there's excess capacity in the industry and it gets taken out I think that's fundamentally healthy for the industry.
In terms of 3 competitors going down to 2 that might lead to a bit more rationale competition among those 3.
How it plays out and how it backs up on us I can't answer that at this point.
But our general sense is that if it's something that's fundamentally good for the overall business and the industry then eventually it's going to be good for us.
And your next question comes from the line of David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on gross margins.
Just wanted to try to parse out where you saw a little bit of the gross margin compression in the quarter.
I mean obviously Industrial and EIS were the 2 segments that saw overall margin compression.
Is that where gross is under pressure as well? And if so what was the kind of the key driver was it fixed cost deleverage or something else in those segments? No first of all I wouldn't focus too much on the quarter.
I'd suggest that maybe we focus on the full year and we were able to show some gross profit improvement for the full year 9 basis points.
Not an overwhelming improvement but after 2 years of modest decline I think the team generally did a pretty good job of stabilizing the gross margin and then bringing it back.
In Jerry's comments he mentioned that one of the contributing factors in the quarter what that we did not have the volume incentive rebates to the degree that we had them in the Industrial segment so we didn't have the benefit of that.
And we also didn't use the balance sheet to prop up the income statement because we didn't go out and make big buys at the end of the year to try to capture some of those.
Carol referenced in her comments that without the Quaker City acquisition our inventories were up 2%.
So I think as a general statement our folks did a good job of keeping inventories under control and we probably gave up opportunities on a little bit of gross profit enhancement.
But we felt it was prudent to operate the way we did operate in the fourth quarter.
And I'd say in terms of modeling you might model in that gross profits will be at least equal to what they were this past year.
And frankly we're planning on a modest improvement again in gross profit in 2013.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And not to beat a dead horse on the Auto Parts business.
But Paul I was wondering if you could kind of walk us through maybe what you're seeing on the DIY part of the business in terms of the decline in the fourth quarter by category.
Are you seeing discretionary categories that are weak? Or is it really more of the weather-related categories there maybe just different because of regional concentrations? Yes David.
It is more of the discretionary.
And our retail business as I stated in my opening comments we're certainly not pleased with our retail results.
I do believe they're fairly consistent both across our industry as well as retail in general has been under bit of pressure.
But I will tell you that we have a number of initiatives in place as we go into 2013 and I would hope that some of the things that we've put in place would begin to move the needle back in a positive direction for us.
David I would just add that -- Paul mentioned it in his earlier comments and that is that the average ticket size is actually up a little bit on the retail side which is very encouraging to us.
But we have seen a modest decline in ticket count so I think a challenge for us is to generate a bit more foot traffic.
And that in itself will help the overall retail business.
And just a follow-up to that David we are certainly optimistic.
We launched a new advertising campaign post Super Bowl that we fully expect will drive some traffic and we'll follow up with an additional ad campaign starting as NASCAR kicks off by this Sunday at Daytona.
Your next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This one maybe for Carol a bit.
As you talk about working capital management extending payables do you have sort of an initial target where you're  thinking you're taking the AP inventory ratio to 2013? We don't really have a target.
We look for continued improvement on that line maybe not all that we had this year.
But we certainly expect to have a continued improvement on that line but no specific targets.
Research Division</strong> And then sort of shifting back to the last question that was just asked on the DIY side of the business.
Do you have a feeling I guess sort of market share wise is your performance regionally sort of -- are you getting the feeling that's in line with peers? Or is there aggressive pricing coming out of some of the competitors in the market either to maintain or enhance their DIY share that may be limiting some of your comp store sales regionally? Bret this is Paul.
I think pricing with our peer group has been fairly rational this year.
We don't see it in any particular market being any more difficult than another particular market.
Again I think retail in general and the retail consumer is under a bit of stress.
Certainly as Tom mentioned earlier the payroll tax that 2% is going to have an impact on some of those -- that walk-in traffic.
But again we've taken on as our responsibility in a tough environment we've got to go out be aggressive and take some market share.
And that's our plan.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But just quickly could you tell me how much acquisitions contributed in the Industrial and Electrical segments in the quarter? Well Industrial didn't have any acquisitions in the quarter.
And Electrical had that small acquisition Light Fab that we talked about earlier but it's really immaterial.
It's certainly on the balance sheet and there was just some incremental revenue in earnings as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hilgert with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Jerry let me add my congratulations and hope you're blessed with many years of happy retirement.
Thank you very much Rich.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to kind of drill down a little bit more on the fleet business in Auto.
You mentioned during the call that you saw that steadily decline as the year progressed.
You also mentioned earlier in the call that some of the uncertainties surrounding government regulation and taxes is causing some reticence among businesses.
I'm wondering if those 2 are related? And also as time progresses and as these fleets vehicles age are we going to see them catch up with repairs first before they start replacing vehicles in those fleets? Well taking the first part I don't think we have any statistical data that can make a direct correlation between the uncertainty surrounding what's happening in Washington and maybe some of the freight or transportation indices.
But one would have to think that there is some inter-connectivity between those 2.
If people are deferring or delaying certain purchases eventually that has to result in some downward movement in the amount of product that's being shipped.
The TSI index just as a point of information includes over-the-road trucking it includes rail and it includes barge it includes aviation.
So it's a pretty comprehensive index and it has been showing signs of deceleration as the year progressed.
The second part in terms of the continued aging of the fleet at some point those vehicles are going to need some level of repair.
What we have seen over more recent times is that if it affects safety or drivability we're seeing expenditures being made.
But if it's at all something that's discretionary we see more judgment coming in terms of whether or not the repair is going to be made.
So I think as long as those vehicles continue to age it will continue to drive demand for replacement parts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second area I wanted to get a little bit more color on was in the Office Products Group.
An earlier question kind of hinted a little bit at it but it seems to me that pricing pressure is going to continue going forward and that the OfficeMax and Office Depot combination if it were in fact to happen would happen because they're seeking to get obviously some efficiencies of scale and be able to better compete in the industry because you've got Walmart stores Costco you've got Amazon all entering into that space.
So your comments earlier said that you saw I think you said it was a 2.7% increase in pricing in Office Products during the year.
And I'm wondering is that because you're focusing in areas outside of what the other players are doing? As you mentioned you're in furniture and you're in cleaning and break-room.
And I'm wondering if those other competitors might start looking at those areas? Well we'll try to take them maybe in reverse order.
In terms of the product categories that we're in all of these companies are in each of these categories to one degree or another.
In terms of the 2.7% inflationary impact on Office Products that's calculated based upon manufacturer price increases to us not necessarily our price increases out to our customer base.
And then looking at the potential acquisition or combination of Office Depot and OfficeMax obviously they see enormous potential for synergies and I think they run into a number of different categories.
They're not just purchase price synergies.
I think they're going to wind up being perhaps even greater in the non-procurement side of the business just because of the redundancy that exists today with the 2 freestanding companies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's still reasonable to assume that with a company like Amazon getting into this space we're going to see more pricing competition because of online getting into it? Well it would seem so.
But keep in mind that we already are a provider of product to online resellers.
Many of our customers have online presence.
Staples I think would be second only to Amazon in terms of their online business.
So the fact that we have a new entrant does not mean it's new to the industry.
This is something that's been around for a while and I think it's reasonable to say that they will put some pricing pressure in the different channels.
But we've already been competing and our customer set has already been competing with very very good e-tail companies that are out there today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great great.
And just a last housekeeping item the $23.5 million gain from the pension that's in the SG&amp;A.
I was wondering is that divided up amongst the segments? Or is that primarily in the Automotive segment operating income? All of the pension curtailment gain the $23.5 million is in the other line.
So it is not in the segments.
And that's all of the allotted time that we have for questions.
I will now turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Well thank you all very much.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
We look forward to giving you more of an update as we work our way through the first quarter.
And we'll close again by thanking Jerry Nix for 34 outstanding years and wishing him the very very best in the years going forward.
I thank each of you as well.
It's been a great ride.
And you've got a great stock that you're holding here and look forward to continuing to progress.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jasmine and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Sid Jones Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts second quarter conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We'll begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate your taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President along with Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of today's call and once we've concluded our individual remarks we will look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Now earlier this morning we released our second quarter 2013 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $3 676 000 000 which was up 10% over the prior year.
Net income was $216.4 million which was up 28% and earnings per share were $1.39 this year compared to $1.08 last year and the EPS increase was up 29%.
Now I do want to point out that these results include the contributions from our Australia and New Zealand acquisition that was completed on April 1.
You will recall that as of April 1 we purchased the remaining 70% of the shares that we did not own and both Carol and Paul will give you a bit more detail on how this impacted the numbers during their comments.
But I would just say that we are really pleased to have this team as part of the GPC family and they will be strong contributors to our results in the quarters ahead.
A review of the results by business segment shows quite a contrast between our automotive and nonautomotive operations.
Automotive revenues were up 22% in the quarter including the contributions from the Australia and New Zealand acquisition and they were up 6% without this contribution and if we back out the 1 month of incremental volume we had with Quaker City our ongoing operations were up 4% and this shows good sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2.
The nonautomotive operations were down just over 1% in the quarter with all 3 of the business segments experiencing modest decreases.
The Industrial segment which is our largest nonautomotive business was down 0.6% in the second quarter.
This is a slight improvement from the 2% decrease reported in the first quarter but down all the same.
Our biggest challenges in the quarter were with customers in the original equipment manufacturing segment.
Many of these customers have a fair amount of their sales volume tied to the export market and they're being adversely impacted by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and by the overall slowdown in the global economy.
Conversely customers in the automotive lumber and wood products segments are examples of segments that are showing solid growth for us and we think it's indicative of the stronger new car sales that we're seeing in the U.S.
as well as the recovery that we're seeing in the housing segment in the economy.
And in going a bit deeper into the numbers it's interesting to note that customers in our top 10 industry segments exclusive of the original equipment manufacturing were actually up mid single-digits with us in the second quarter and they're running low single-digit increases year-to-date all of which probably ties with a gradual but uneven overall economic recovery that we're all reading about.
Fortunately the most recent industrial production and capacity utilization indices both remain at historically healthy levels which should turn out to be a positive for us in the quarters ahead.
However at this point our sense is that customer demand patterns will remain a bit uneven and choppy over the remainder of the year.
Or stated another way although we do expect modest sales improvement in the second half we feel that the end market demand will be somewhat sluggish and a bit unpredictable for a few quarters yet.
Moving on to the Electrical/Electronic segment sales for this group were down 4% and many of the same comments made about our industrial business are applicable to the Electrical/Electronic business as well.
Sales to the original equipment manufacturers are showing the steepest declines year-over-year and then specific to the Electrical segment sales to defense contractors have been negatively affected by the impact of sequestration.
As with Motion Industries we do anticipate some sales improvement over the second half of the year but our sense is that it will be modest until we see further improvement in the overall economy.
We'll wrap up a review of the nonautomotive operations with a few comments about Office Products which ended the quarter down 3%.
After a 3% increase in the fourth quarter of last year and a relatively flat first quarter of this year we're actually expecting a little stronger performance from this segment in Q2.
Our business with the Mega Channel actually improved in the second quarter ending up mid single-digits but then our business with the independent Office Products resellers was down mid single-digits.
From a product category perspective we continue to see positive results in furniture as well as in cleaning and breakroom supplies but these are being offset by decreases in technology products and core office supplies.
These latter 2 technology products and office supplies are our 2 largest product categories and they both softened a bit further in Q2 from Q1.
Overall demand in the Office Products industry is being affected by the movement to tablet-style devices as well as the ongoing digitization of the office environment.
Additionally demand is currently being impacted by sequestration and a general reduction in governmental budgets at the local state and federal levels and the expectation is that all of these will remain headwinds for the Office Products industry until we see stronger economic recovery.
In the meantime our Office Products team remains focused on the key growth initiatives aimed at driving incremental revenue and market share gains.
So that's a quick overview of the nonautomotive businesses.
And at this point we'll ask Paul to cover the automotive operations.
Paul? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
As Tom mentioned we are including in our automotive recap the results from our newly acquired business in Australasia formerly known as Exego and now known as GPC Asia Pacific.
Our 434 stores now operating in Australia and New Zealand were consolidated into our results on April 1 and this business performed as expected throughout the second quarter.
We have an outstanding management team on the ground and we are pleased with the progress we see in their growth strategy.
Our expectation is continued growth in this business over the balance of 2013.
Turning to our North American automotive business.
Our team delivered a 6% sales increase in the second quarter.
This 6% growth includes approximately a 2% benefit from 1 month of Quaker City Motor Parts revenues.
As many of you will recall we acquired this business back on May 1 of 2012.
Our total automotive business including the acquisition of GPC Asia Pacific grew 22%.
Our North American 6% revenue growth in the second quarter includes comp store sales growth of 4.5% which is an improvement from relatively flat sales comps posted in the first quarter.
These favorable results were driven by our commercial business.
However our team also made solid strides with our retail business in the quarter.
Within our U.S.
company-owned store group the commercial side of our business ended the quarter up 6%.
This represents our strongest performance since Q1 of 2012.
Diving deeper into the results our non fleet-related business turned in a strong quarter generating an 8% increase.
This segment was supported by high single-digit growth from our approximately 15 000 NAPA AutoCare centers which we're proud to announce is at an all-time high record number.
Our major account group also grew high single-digits and was a major contributor to our overall commercial growth.
Our fleet business grew 3% and reversed the trend we had seen of declining sales in recent quarters.
Our wholesale average ticket value increased low single-digit and our average number of tickets was up mid single-digits in this segment of our business.
We are very encouraged by both of these sales trends.
Now let's turn to our retail business.
We saw significant improvement over our recent quarterly performance.
After reporting a mid single-digit sales decrease in the first quarter we are pleased to report our team drove positive sales growth in the second quarter.
Our average retail dollar invoice was up low single-digits for the quarter while our average number of invoices was flat which again has improved from recent quarters.
As mentioned in our last call our team has a number of initiatives in the works to drive our retail sales efforts and while it's still early in the process it appears our team is on the right track.
From a product category standpoint we continue to see strong sales in our Electrical category primarily driven by our battery business.
We'd like to take this opportunity to give a quick plug for our Get Back Give Back battery promo currently running in the month of July in support of the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund.
Our corporate-wide goal is to raise money and awareness in support of our returning military veterans.
So in addition to our strong battery business we are seeing solid growth from our heavy-duty product category as well as our tool and equipment offering.
An additional positive product trend is our improved sales in our all-important brake business.
This is significant as we experienced slowing in this critical category in 2012 and only began to see a modest recovery in the first quarter of 2013.
It would appear that our team's efforts to get this business back on track have taken hold.
Now a few comments regarding the overall state of the automotive aftermarket.
We continue to believe the fundamentals of the aftermarket remain positive.
This theory was tested during the prior 4 quarters but as expected the overall stable vehicle population combined with the growing number of older vehicles bodes well for ongoing and increased demand in the aftermarket.
Our automotive business is well-positioned to capture our fair share of this increased demand.
So in summary both our North American and our Australian and New Zealand automotive operations turned in solid results in the second quarter and more importantly provide us ample growth opportunity through the remainder of 2013.
We remain positive about the core fundamentals of our industry and our management team remains focused on driving positive growth for the balance of the year.
We are encouraged by the renewed strength in our commercial segment and the growth we experienced in our retail business this past quarter.
We'd like to personally thank all of our NAPA associates throughout North America for their strong efforts in the second quarter and we'd like to give a special welcome to our new associates in Australia and New Zealand.
So that completes our overview of the automotive business in the second quarter.
And at this time I'll hand it over to Carol to get us started with our review of the financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul.
We'll get started with a review of our second quarter and 6 months income statement and the segment information and we'll also review a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
To start off with please note that any reference to our June 30 second quarter and year-to-date consolidated results include GPC Asia Pacific which we acquired on April 1 of this year.
In association with the acquisition of the remaining 70% in GPC Asia Pacific we are required to revalue our original 30% investment.
This remeasurement net of certain onetime purchase accounting cost amounted to a positive pretax adjustment of approximately $36 million reported -- recorded in the second quarter.
In accounting for this adjustment approximately $18 million in costs were reported to cost of goods sold and a $54 million gain net of expenses was recorded to selling administrative and other expenses on our income statement.
Additionally the $36 million net adjustment is included in the Other net line on our segment information sheet.
The $36 million net adjustment combined with the lower tax rate for the remeasurement favorably impacted diluted earnings per share by $0.22.
Now turning to our income statement total sales were a record high of $3.7 billion for the second quarter an increase of 10% from last year as Tom mentioned.
For the 6 months total sales of $6.9 billion were up 5% from 2012.
And overall we remain optimistic in our outlook for future sales growth.
Our gross profit for the second quarter was 30.1% of sales up from the 29.1% of sales last year.
And for the 6 months gross margin of 29.5% is up from the 29.0% for the same period last year.
Our improvement in gross margin is primarily due to the favorable impact of higher gross margins in our Australasian business which owns 100% of its stores.
Additionally our core gross margin was up slightly from the second quarter last year which we were very pleased to see.
These increases were partially offset by the $18 million onetime purchase accounting adjustment as we referenced earlier which relates to the Australasian inventory valuation.
Gross margin for the second quarter would have been 30.6% before the impact of these onetime costs.
And looking ahead we would currently expect our gross margin to trend toward the 30% range.
As an additional point of interest we continue to see very little inflation in our businesses.
Our year-to-date 2013 cumulative pricing is down 0.3% in Automotive up 0.6% in Industrial up 0.5% in Office and up 1% for Electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A our total expenses were $790 million in the second quarter which is up 12% from 2012 and at 21.5% of sales.
For the 6 months our total SG&amp;A expenses were $1.5 billion up 7% and at 21.7% of sales.
Our SG&amp;A expenses as a percent of sales are up 40 and 30 basis points for the quarter and 6 months respectively.
These increases reflect the impact of higher SG&amp;A expenses at GPC Asia Pacific again due to their 100% owned store model as well as a decrease in leverage associated with our nonautomotive businesses.
These increases were partially offset by the onetime net gain recorded to SG&amp;A as we previously discussed.
Excluding this positive adjustment SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 23.0% for the second quarter and 22.5% for the 6 months.
We will continue to work to control our costs through several measures including ongoing investments in technology which have positively impacted our operating efficiencies in our distribution centers and stores as well as supply chain initiatives in areas such as freight and logistics.
Now let's discuss the segment results.
Our Automotive revenue for the second quarter was $2.01 billion and represents 54% of total sales and is up 22.3%.
Our operating profit of $186.4 million is up 21.8% and their margin is even with last year at 9.3%.
For the 6 months our Automotive sales of $3.56 billion which represents 52% of the total is up 13%.
Our operating profit of $307.4 million is up 15% so the margin is up 10 basis points to 8.6% from the 8.5% which we're very pleased to report.
Our Industrial Group had sales of $1.13 billion in the quarter.
This represents 31% of our revenue and a decrease of 0.6%.
Our operating profit of $88.9 million is down 6.5% so we saw the industrial margin decrease from 7.9% -- or down to 7.9% from 8.3%.
Through June our Industrial sales of $2.23 billion were down 1% and our operating profit of $167.8 million was down 6.5% so their margin was down 40 basis points to 7.5% from 7.9% primarily due to the sales decrease.
Our Office Products have revenues of $402.3 million which is 11% of our total sales down 2.7% for the quarter.
Our operating profit of $29.8 million is also down 3% so their margin held steady at 7.4% which is very good operating.
Year-to-date Office sales of $822.4 million representing 12% of our revenues are down 2% and their operating profit of $63 million which is down 7.6% with margins going to 7.7% versus 8.1% last year which is down 40 basis points again to due to the sales decline.
The Electrical Group had sales in the quarter of $143 million and that's 4% of the total revenue and down 4.3%.
Their operating profit of $12.2 million was down 5.5% so their margin came down slightly to 8.5%.
For the year Electrical sales were $282 million representing 4% of our revenue and down 5%.
Their operating profit of $22.7 million is down 9% and again their margin is down 40 basis points to 8.0% from the 8.4% due to the sales decline.
So our total operating profit was up approximately 9% in the second quarter and our operating margin decreased slightly to 8.6%.
This follows a similar decrease in the first quarter and for the 6 months our total operating margin of 8.2% is down from the 8.3% for the same period in the prior year.
The slight decline in our operating margins thus far in 2013 continues to reflect the impact of our weak sales conditions in our nonautomotive businesses.
The operating margins at GPC Asia Pacific were in line with our core automotive business as expected.
We remain committed to expanding our operating margin over the balance of the year through our ongoing initiatives.
We had net interest expense of $7.9 million in the second quarter.
Year-to-date our interest expense was $11.2 million.
Our interest for the quarter was up from 2012 due to the increase in our total debt.
Based on our current projections we expect net interest expense of approximately $26 million to $28 million for 2013.
This has slightly improved from our prior guidance of $30 million for the year.
Our total amortization expense was approximately $9 million for the second quarter and is $12.8 million for the 6 months.
This is up from last year due to the Quaker acquisition last May and April's acquisition of GPC Asia Pacific.
We expect our amortization to trend in line with the second quarter amount over the balance of the year.
The other line which reflects corporate expense was $14.3 million in income for the second quarter and is essentially flat for the 6 months.
As we discussed earlier this line reflects the net favorable purchase accounting adjustment of $36 million.
Including this line item we would project our corporate expense to be in the $25 million to $35 million expense range for the full year.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 31.3% which has improved from the 36.9% last year.
For the 6 months our 32.8% rate compares to the 36.5% for the same period the prior year.
The improved rate for the quarter and the year primarily reflects the favorable tax rate on our gain generated by the remeasurement of our 30% investment in GPC Asia Pacific.
In addition our current tax rate reflects the favorable impact of the lower Australian and New Zealand tax rates applied to their earnings.
For the third and fourth quarters we expect our tax rate to approximate 36% which would give us an annual rate of 34.5% to 35% for 2013.
Our net income for the quarter was $216.4 million or up 28% and our EPS of $1.39 compared to $1.08 was up 29%.
For the year through June our net income of $360.7 million is up 15% and our EPS of $2.31 compared to $2.01 is also up 15%.
Without the one-time adjustments recorded in the second quarter our EPS of $1.17 was up 8% and a new record for us.
And for the year the EPS is $2.09 without the adjustment or up 4%.
Now let's discuss some of the balance sheet items starting with cash.
Cash at June 30 was $197 million which is up slightly from last June although down from year end and also down from first quarter.
This is due to the April 1 payment for GPC Asia Pacific.
We will continue to generate strong cash flows and as a result of the increase in our earnings effective working capital and asset management and cost containment measures.
Our accounts receivable of $1.8 billion at June 30 increased 10% from the same period in 2012 on a 10% sales increase for the quarter.
Excluding the receivables at GPC Asia Pacific our accounts receivables were up 4%.
Our goal is to grow receivables at a rate less than the revenue growth so we have a little work to do in this area but we remain focused on meeting this goal in the periods ahead.
We're very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at quarter end was $2.8 billion which is up 11% from June 30 last year and primarily due to the GPC Asia Pacific inventory added at the beginning of the quarter.
Excluding the impact of Australasia our inventory is up just 1% from last year.
So our team is doing a very good job of managing our inventory levels and we remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move to the balance of 2013.
Our accounts payable balance at June 30 was $2.1 billion up 29% from June 30 of last year.
Excluding the impact of GPC Asia Pacific our payables were up 21%.
Our ongoing growth and trade payables reflects the positive impact of our extended payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors.
We're very encouraged with our improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital and days and payables.
Our working capital of $1.8 billion at June 30 is down approximately 26% from June of 2012.
This is primarily due to the increase in our current debt in 2013.
Excluding our current debt our working capital is up less than 1% from last year.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a very high priority for our company and our ongoing efforts with these key accounts have resulted in tremendous improvement in our working capital position and our cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at June 30 2013.
Our total debt of $900 million at June 30 of 2013 includes 2 $250 million term notes which we've carried for some time now as well as another $400 million borrowings that are under our multicurrency syndicated credit facility agreement and also borrowings at GPC Asia Pacific.
This adds to total debt to total capitalization of approximately 23% at June 30 which is consistent with March 31 and up from the 15% at June 30 last year.
We're comfortable with our capital structure at this time and we currently expect to maintain this level of debt over the balance of the year.
It's worth adding here that we do intend to renew the $250 million term note that is due November 30 of 2013.
While not finalized we expect to extend this debt for 10 years at a 2.99% fixed interest rate thus replacing the 4.67% interest rate on the current note with more favorable terms.
We expect the renewal to become effective on November 30 of 2013.
As we stated earlier we continue to generate solid cash flows and we expect another very strong year in 2013.
For the 6 months through June our cash from operations was approximately $467 million.
For the full year we would currently project cash from operations to exceed $900 million.
Likewise we expect free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends to be in the $500 million range.
The continued strength of our cash flows is encouraging and we remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serves to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for the cash is the dividend which we paid every year since going public in 1948 and have now raised for 57 consecutive years.
This is a record that continues to distinguish Genuine Parts from other companies.
Our annual dividend of $2.15 a share for 2013 represents a 9% increase from the $1.98 paid in 2012 and is approximately 52% of our 2012 earnings per share which is well within our goal of a 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment and capital expenditures was $37.9 million for the second quarter up from $34.5 million in the prior year.
For the 6 months capital spending totaled $50.8 million which is relatively in line with the 6 months in 2012.
We expect our capital expenditures for the full year to be in the range of $140 million to $150 million which is an increase from the $102 million in the prior year due to the addition of GPC Asia Pacific as well as some anticipated expenditures in our North American businesses.
The vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Our depreciation and amortization was $36.9 million in the quarter up from $24.7 million for the second quarter in 2012 due to the impact of GPC Asia Pacific.
For the year depreciation and amortization is $62.9 million compared to $47.7 million for the same period in the prior year.
We currently anticipate depreciation and amortization to be approximately $135 million to $145 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of our cash for us and are integral to the growth plans for our company.
We remain excited about the growth opportunities we see at GPC Asia Pacific and we continue to seek new acquisitions for our businesses to further enhance our prospects for future growth.
Generally we would expect to target those bolt-on types of strategic acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally we have been active in the company's share repurchase program since 1994.
And thus far in 2013 we've purchased approximately 350 000 shares and we have another 11.8 million shares authorized and available for repurchase today.
While we have no set pattern for these repurchases we would expect to be active in the program in the quarters ahead as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best returns our shareholders.
In closing we want to thank all of our GPC associates for their hard work and dedication to their jobs and the success of Genuine Parts Company.
We've seen these same tremendous effort from the team at GPC Asia Pacific and we welcome them to the family.
We also want to thank them for such a great job during this transitionary period.
The progress we achieved in the quarter was due to the collective efforts of the entire GPC team and it's much appreciated.
Looking ahead the company is well-positioned to generate continued sales and earnings growth over the balance of the year.
And as always we will support our growth with strong cash flow a healthy balance sheet and further maximizing our return to shareholders.
That concludes our financial review and I'll now turn it back over to Tom.
Well thank you Paul and Carol for your updates.
Well done in each case as usual.
So that's a recap on our second quarter results.
And as we look back over the quarter we feel that our folks made good progress in a number of key areas.
Our sales and earnings set new quarterly records with and without the impact of acquisitions.
On the balance sheet accounts receivable and inventory were managed well and accounts payable continue to trend in the right direction.
Cash from operations improved nicely and working capital efficiency improved as well.
On the revenue side it's clear that our Automotive segment is the bright spot for us right now.
The Automotive operation showed good sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2 both with and without about the acquisition impact.
We are pleased with the progress being made in this segment and we feel that the prior full year -- revenue guidance of plus 5% to plus 7% without acquisition volume and plus 18% to 20% with the GPC Asia Pacific volume remains appropriate at this time.
And we think that this would represent a solid performance from our automotive team.
Our challenges right now are more concentrated in our nonautomotive operations.
End market conditions in each of these segments remain challenging.
And while we do expect to see second half revenues to improve somewhat compared to first half we think that it's appropriate to trim our prior full year revenue guidance for each of these businesses.
In our prior guidance for Industrial we said that revenues for the year would be up 4% to 6% and currently we think it's more appropriate to say that they're going to be up 1% to 3%.
Prior we had guided for Electrical/Electronic to be up 4% to 6% as well and now we'd say even to up 2%.
And prior guidance for Office Products was up 1% to up 3% and currently we would say it's down 1% to plus 1%.
In putting all of this together we give GPC a full year sales increase of plus 9% to plus 10%.
On the earnings side our prior guidance was for an EPS range of $4.45 to $4.60.
And at this point we think it appropriate to raise the bottom end of the guidance to $4.50.
This would give us a new range of $4.50 to $4.60 with a bit of a bias toward the mid to lower end of the range until we see how the overall economy performs in the second half of the year.
And this will give us an EPS increase of 9% to 11% for the year and we want to remind you that we did have a pension curtailment gain in the fourth quarter of last year that was $0.09 per share.
And if we back this out the gain -- the increase for the EPS will be up 11% to up 14% without that onetime gain that last year.
So with all of that said at this time we'd like to take your questions.
And we'll turn the call back over to Jasmine.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of David Gober from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Paul just a quick one for you on the automotive business.
Just curious if you could talk at all about either the monthly cadence within the quarter.
I know you'd said at the last quarter that you're starting to see some green shoots.
Just curious if that scaled throughout the quarter or if it was relatively even? And then I guess a follow-on to that also if you're seeing any -- what you're seeing in terms of regionality.
I know obviously there was -- for the better part of last year you had some significant differences across regions and just curious if you're seeing that reversers have you seen different regions normalized in the automotive business? Yes great question David.
And let me take the first one regarding the trending throughout the quarter.
The quarter actually strengthened as we moved through the quarter.
So May was a bit better than April.
And on a per day basis June was a bit better than May.
So we do remain encouraged by what we're seeing in automotive and we're encouraged by the trend that we're seeing.
In terms of regionality David we did see -- if you recall in our previous calls we were challenged as I think many were in the Midwest Eastern central parts of the country.
We have seen that area of the country.
Certainly the East and the Midwest have come back strong.
The Southwest has been a good performer for us last couple of years.
They continue to do well.
And the rest of the country is pretty much performing as we expected.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And Tom or Carol I guess just on the overall EPS guidance I just wanted to confirm that that includes the $0.22 benefit from the recast on the Exego deal? And just curious if that also was kind of contemplated in the prior guidance? Yes it does include that.
And yes it was contemplated in the prior guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scot Ciccarelli.
Just one more clarification on the EPS.
Does that include the gain as well or just kind of the run rate of Exego? It includes the gain.
And the $4.50 to $4.60 is an all-in number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you didn't previously anticipate the $0.22 gain when we got the original $4.45 to $4.60 correct? No we anticipated that it would be a gain.
And it might be instructive just to say that you're probably familiar with the accounting on this.
And we had a higher range and a low range on the anticipated gain and it's a very complicated process and you can't narrow it down until you get to the very last moment.
And we tried to take an appropriate look at it when we gave you that prior guidance.
And as it turns out we were reasonably close with what it actually turned out to be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then regarding the comments about kind of gross margin SG&amp;A run rates I guess is there anything that's impacting maybe that little bit of a shift that we've seen to higher gross margin and higher SG&amp;A other than the Asia Pacific business or is that -- it really center on that? Well so we gave you the onetime amounts that are in both of those numbers.
So taking those into account what we would say that our gross margins our core gross margins were up slightly excluding the impact of GPC Asia Pacific and the onetime adjustments.
And SG&amp;A because of the decline in the sales in the nonautomotive businesses our SG&amp;A really we didn't have the improvement there and that's the loss of leverage and you see that in the operating margins.
So what we're saying on a go-forward basis is you are going to see just a slight shift there if you will that's due to GPC Asia Pacific but we're going to continue to focus on our normal improvements in both of those lines.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One question on the Office Products business.
If you could comment on the divergence between the Megas and the independents and sort of the nature of the business you do with those 2 channels and what you think might be leading to that? Is that a function of their end markets? Is it a function of your role with respect to channels? Any color you could give there would be terrific.
Well just as a reminder Matt the independent channel was down mid single-digit and the Mega Channel was up mid single-digit.
And we've seen variations in this over time and we can go back 1 year or 2 and see that the independents may have been growing at a little faster rate with us than the Mega Channel.
So it does undulate a bit up and down just depending upon the circumstance.
At this point I would say that the independents as a general statement the independents that seem to be doing reasonably well right now have embraced some of the newer things that S.P.
Richards has been introducing.
So as for instance the independents that have embraced in a big way the cleaning and breakroom category are enjoying pretty good revenue growth with that.
And of course we benefit from that.
And the same thing could be said for the Megas as well.
As you know they've embraced some of the new growth opportunities also.
Those independents that have a strong presence on the Internet I think as a general statement would be doing a little bit better than those independents that don't have a strong presence on the Internet.
So it varies depending upon the particular circumstance of the independent channel.
I was just at a meeting where S.P.
Richards had a number of their independent customers in attendance.
And I'd have to say that I was encouraged by the determination that I heard from the number that I got to talk with.
And while they're not happy with where they find themselves as a general statement through midyear many of them have a little bit of optimism for the second half of the year and they're determined to embrace some of these things that they know can enhance the revenue growth in the quarters ahead.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 quick ones on Automotive.
One is operational and one is financial.
The operational one I'll address to Paul.
So you're showing very nice transaction growth particularly in commercial.
And interested in what your sense of the source of that is.
Is that market growth for clearly the market has improved to some degree? Or in your view is that market share growth for the NAPA franchise? I would think a little bit of both Matt.
As I mentioned in my comment are 2 key initiatives for us certainly is our AutoCare business and as I mentioned we had a record number of AutoCares in the past quarter.
And our major account business has bounced back nicely.
So those 2 areas have grown nicely and I think will continue to do so.
So that certainly is driving our overall commercial business.
Research Division</strong> And are the major accounts typically large jobber chains and such or is it fleet customers? Who typically is the population in that group? So when we talk about major accounts Matt our key partners in that world are folks like Firestone Goodyear Tire Kingdom Midas AAA certainly.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's great.
And then finally just to think about the $0.22 of the accounting adjustment and then what I think is separate which is the accretion associated with the Exego deal that you discussed at the outset of the year and correct me if I'm wrong I think it was a $0.15 to $0.20 number just to make sure that those are 2 different numbers the accretion from Exego is exclusive of that $0.22 number? No it's inclusive of that number Matt.
We tried to bake that in when we gave you some guidance at the time of the transaction.
Research Division</strong> So the assumption then that the -- if you sort of exclude the accounting adjustment that if you think about the -- if you think about on an operating basis if you will it's more a breakeven kind of transaction with I guess potential to get more accretive over time? No.
One thing to keep in mind is when we did our original guidance when we assumed we were going to have a 30% investment for the full year we had given an EPS guidance.
And then we came in and said we're going to do the 70%.
And we put in an incremental amount.
But there was already some amount in the beginning number if you will but the $0.15 to $0.20 was a range of the incremental amount adding in the 70% and knowing we already had something in there for the 30% but it's not a breakeven.
In fact it's -- the $0.15 to $0.20 range for the 9 months were just what their operating numbers are.
It's pretty close to what it is.
Research Division</strong> And the remeasurement if you will and it might be too detailed for this call but I think we're all getting some questions on this.
Is this a reassessment of the value of the original investment? Kind of what drives that remeasurement process? I understand you have to do it but what's the nature of the assessment? So the 30% investment there's purchase accounting rules and we're happy to have Sid go into more of this with you later.
But the purchase accounting rules cause you to have a fair value valuation done by a third-party independent valuation firm.
And they look at a lot of market metrics and they look at the results of the company and they look at a lot of different variables and it's a very in-depth process.
So it's a fair value valuation of that original 30% that was $166 million and you revalue it to the April 1 date.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Montani from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask in automotive 2 questions.
The first one is was there any impact from holiday shift either good or bad this quarter? I know that you mentioned it was a headwind last quarter.
So is that actually a tailwind or neutral? And then secondly on the margins within automotive they were down slightly but if you were to exclude Exego from that with the core North American margin actually have been up? I'll take the first one first Michael.
Certainly Easter having a shift into the first quarter the Easter holiday that negatively impacted our numbers in Q1.
So I think you could then surmise that it was a tailwind for our Q2 numbers.
And the second question regarding our margin performance I'm going to have Carol address that because I'm not sure I understood what your question was.
So if you recall in the first quarter our Automotive margins were up 10 basis points.
And then this quarter we're showing a really strong 9.3% and they were flat.
And for the 6 months we're still able to show 10 basis point improvement.
And what we would say is just for the quarter our core business probably was up slightly.
But we're saying on a full year comparative basis margins for GPC Asia Pacific are very similar to our normal business our core business.
You could have some differences quarter-to-quarter because if you -- you may or may not know but their quarters are completely opposite of ours.
So our second and third quarters here in the U.S.
are our strongest throughput quarters.
And these are pretty high operating margins for second and third quarters.
But for Australia it's the reverse on their quarters.
So their stronger quarters are first and fourth.
They're in the southern hemisphere and have the flip in terms of the seasonality.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So seasonality has an impact.
That's helpful.
And maybe the last one which is for Tom which is the industrial guidance of up 1% to 3% sort of versus the year-to-date trend seems to imply an assumption that the business could be up maybe in the 3% to 4% range in the next 2 quarters.
Is there anything in particular that's driving that outlook whether it be different initiatives that you have or a thought that inflation might pick up a bit? Or how are you guys looking at that outlook? I think we'd start with making the point that you may recall that at the end of the first 2 quarters last year our industrial business was up 10%.
And we ended the year up 7%.
So we saw some deceleration in the second half of 2012.
So the comps get a little easier.
And then I think as I mentioned in my comments some of the challenges that we have in the original equipment manufacturer segment we're going to anniversary some of that and here again the comps get I think a little easier for us.
And then we've got specific initiatives that are underway that we think could generate some incremental volume in the second half of the year.
So it's a combination of factors.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Horvers from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Following up on a couple of questions.
So first in the auto business on the DIY side you mentioned the business was up low single-digits in the quarter.
Is that a comp number or does that include maybe 100 basis points for the extra -- the Easter shift? Is that the right way to think about it? And then as you think about it going forward how do you think about the growth in this business? Clearly spring got pulled forward last year out of the second quarter.
You would think you would get a lift here in the second quarter of it just going back.
Do you think sort of plus low single-digits is the right trend for the back half of the year in DIY? So Chris your first question was around the impact of Easter and was that a comp number or did Easter have an impact on our retail number.
The way I'm looking at our retail business Chris we had a nice bounce back in Q2.
And whether that's because Easter was in Q1 it's hard to determine.
But I do know this our retail business rebounded nicely in Q2.
And we have a number of initiatives in the works that I do believe are beginning to take hold.
And there's no reason to believe that we shouldn't continue that retail growth in Q3 and Q4.
Again we have a number of initiatives in the works and I'm excited with what the team is doing and we're pleased with what we're seeing.
Paul if I could add to it.
Chris if we look at our retail business both ticket count and basket size across the 3 months in the quarter there was a pretty consistent performance on a per day basis across the 3 months in the quarter.
So I think that would suggest that maybe we did get to benefit in April from the Easter transition year-over-year.
But the May and June numbers I think would validate a bit of what Paul is saying and that is the retail business is better.
It's not booming by any stretch.
But it's better than what it was and we're encouraged by what our team has accomplished on a monthly basis over the course of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then on the brakes side does it -- can you maybe put some frame out how much is brakes in the NAPA business? What was it down? And did it flip to positive in the second quarter and grow as you talk about the momentum in the business improving throughout the quarter? I might take the first stab at that Chris.
We don't break out the volumes or percentage of the total volume on any of the product categories.
I suggest we just leave it that it's a significant product category for anybody that's in the automotive aftermarket.
And in terms of the relative performance I think the industry was probably down in the brake category this year.
And our numbers if they're indicative of what's happening in the industry is probably a positive through the first half of this year certainly we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then jumping back to a prior question.
So on the Motion side the compares do get a lot easier as you look at -- into the fourth quarter in getting back to positive.
Is that something that's more weighted to later in the year more of the fourth quarter versus the third quarter as you think about your annual guidance? Yes.
I think we would expect the fourth quarter to be a bit heavier -- a bit better than the third quarter at least the way we see it right now.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lovallo from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First question would be I guess kind of a housekeeping if you will.
The other revenue line kind of the offset line for discounts and incentives seem to be running quite a bit higher than it has over the past several quarters.
What's really driving that? The increase in that is GPC Asia Pacific.
So the sales discounts that we have to show by putting in their revenue we had to show the offset on that line.
So it's entirely related to GPC Asia Pacific.
So the run rate that you see for this quarter will probably be the way that it is for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then on the auto side are there other assets distribution assets globally that may make sense for you guys? I mean are there potential acquisitions that are coming to the market or in the market right now? It very well may.
And we're always open to having any discussion.
At the end of the day it's going to really come down to does it make sense for the shareholders of Genuine Parts Company? But yes we'd be open to continue to have discussions with folks.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Helpful.
And the final question would be on the raw material prices seem to continue to kind of trend lower here.
Where in the value chain does this get captured? I mean do you guys see any benefit from kind of lower input costs? Well the input costs would affect our supply base more than they would us.
If in fact we see sustained lower input cost that should theoretically translate into reduced purchase prices and enable us to pass on lower prices to our customers as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm still a little confused on the guidance.
The previous range does it include the full $0.22 of the issue we're talking about here in the second quarter? Keith we could not quantify precisely what the gain was going to be.
We knew there would be a gain.
And as I mentioned we had a range.
And when we gave the guidance at the time we tried to pick what we thought would most closely approximate what actually turned out to be the gain.
And we came pretty close in the final analysis.
So yes it includes it.
And then as Carol said you need to back out from that the 30% equity stake that we had when we set up the guidance for the full year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What EPS number is that? I don't have that here but I'd...
We didn't give that out.
So that was just in our number.
I think if you want really a lot more of the detail what might make the most sense is if you'll call Sid after this call.
He'll be happy to try to walk you through it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes please.
That would be helpful.
So I think it looks like in the back half of the year you're going to be up low single-digits in terms of EPS.
And you gave us the guidance on the revenues by segment which I average out it'd be low single-digits so I assume you're assuming no margin changes despite the weaker forecast on automotive business.
Is that fair to say? Well what we're trying to say is that we'd like to have margin improvement.
And you may see that on the automotive side that if on the nonautomotive we don't have the top line growth you may not have that.
So it's -- we would say that margins would be relatively flat to up slightly and that's what we're trying to accomplish.
Keith one other comment on the EPS improvement.
Just keep in mind that we did have the onetime curtailment gain the pension curtailment gain in Q4 of last year.
And that was $0.09 a share.
So take that into consideration as you build your model.
Your next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
As we look at Exego sort of in a year-over-year standpoint how did it comp in the quarter just carving out that Australian business separately? Well we don't break out the individual units.
But I think Paul mentioned that they performed right at expectation for us in the quarter.
So they did a good job.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess in North America are you seeing any shift in maintenance versus failure parts demand? Are you seeing any reduction in maintenance deferral as we're getting into 2013 middle of the year? Well I don't know if I'd refer to it as reduction in maintenance deferral.
But we do know based upon Paul's comments that our major account and our AutoCare business both enjoyed good solid growth which would suggest perhaps that we're getting some of that repair that's been hanging out there.
I think Bret that's indicative of both categories.
I mentioned we had a very strong quarter in our battery business on the failure side but we also saw nice comeback in our brakes business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
I guess not to get too granular but you mentioned that the business improved as the quarter progressed.
And regionally the Eastern and Midwestern markets that were tough last year were showing improvement.
But I guess if you look at that Atlanta to New England market in June you certainly had a historically wet month.
Do you think you lost anything to the weather in the latter part of the quarter? Or was that really not an impact? No.
It's interesting Bret because I recently read where the month of June across the country was the warmest in many years but it was also the wettest.
And our business in the South and certainly the Mid-Atlantic areas just got pounded with rain in the months.
So again it's difficult to quantify but I have to believe it had an impact on business because people just aren't getting out and working on their cars and visiting the retail stores.
So your comments are I think dead on.
We have time for one last question from the line of Brent Rakers from Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Anjali Voria for Brent today.
If I could just ask a couple of questions on industrial.
I think you mentioned earlier your top 10 industry segments excluding the OEM side are actually up mid single-digits.
I'm curious as to how they performed in Q1 if it accelerated or decelerated from Q1 levels excluding OEM? And whether maybe some of your broad line initiatives are helping these numbers? Outside of your core power transmission fluid power is your broad line initiative ramping up here? Maybe you could talk about that a little bit.
Sure.
We'll take the first part of the question first.
And we did see sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2.
I think in my comments I mentioned that we're up mid single-digit in the second quarter in those industry segments and we were up low single-digit or up low single digit year-to-date.
So we did see some sequential improvement.
As far as any specific initiatives we would prefer not to get into those on the call.
But I would say that we do have specific initiatives trying to continue to drive revenue in all of the customer categories that we have as well as all product categories that we have.
So that's a significant area of emphasis for us right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Did you see any difference in performance in various geographic regions such as maybe Canada or the Gulf or other parts of the country that saw some variability? I don't think we could say specific differences geographically due to any geographic regions.
We would see differences geographically depending upon how closely aligned they are to some of these OEM customers that I referenced in my comments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the Office side I think you noted sequestration as impacting some of the business there.
I don't know if you've said in the past but what is your exposure to the government side or government exposure in your S.P.
Richards business? Well we don't have any direct exposure because we don't sell direct.
We sell only through Office Products resellers.
But it's that customer category that would have exposures.
So we would have many many customers that do business at different levels of government they would do local state federal business.
And that customer segment at all 3 levels is really being impacted currently.
Research Division</strong> And when you look at the -- I know it's a little ways out but I think the initial Depot-Max combination was approved by shareholders.
How do you view the opportunity for wholesale in interim as they consolidate their business? And maybe how do you think things will shake out after the full consolidation is completed? Any thoughts on that? Well what we would say is they're both good companies and they're both good customers to S.P.
Richards.
And I think as a general statement if there is overcapacity in the industry at least at the store level over the medium and longer term this will be a good positive for the industry overall and for the companies that we're talking about specifically.
As far as more direct impact I think there are some pluses and some minuses at any combination like this.
And certainly in the very near term there will probably be some redundant inventories that will be burned off and that might create some headwind to revenue growth.
But there'll also be I think some opportunities for other customers to find ways to grow their business as we go through this process.
And if in fact those customers are customers of S.P.
Richards that's a net positive for SPR.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to jump back to industrial for a second here.
When you look at how July has progressed and what the month-to-month progression look like during the quarter do you have any thoughts on how that's shaking out? Well as far as the second quarter if we look at it on a per day basis the month was fairly even as we worked our way through the month.
At this point I think it's too early to make any comments on the July numbers.
And that concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn it back over.
We want to thank everybody for participating in this quarter's call.
And we look forward to talking with you with our third quarter release.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Sid Jones Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts third quarter conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We'll begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid.
And I would also like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President along with Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of today's call.
And once we've completed our individual remarks we will look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our third quarter results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3 685 000 000 and this was up 9% over the prior year.
Net income was $173.7 million which was up 1% and our earnings per share were $1.12 this year compared to $1.11 last year which is also a 1% increase.
We will get into the segment detail in a moment but as a general statement we would say that the third quarter proved to be challenging for us more so in our nonautomotive businesses than the automotive segment.
As you will hear from Paul in a few moments the automotive operations performed reasonably well for us and they showed good sequential trends in a number of key areas and automotive continues to make solid progress.
However the same cannot be said about the nonautomotive businesses and this is where we came up short of our expectations in the quarter.
And just to point out the contrast Automotive revenues in the quarter were up 22% and operating profit was up 20%.
Nonautomotive revenues were down 3% and operating profit was down 13%.
Clearly our expectations were for a bit stronger performance from the nonautomotive group in the quarter but unfortunately we saw deceleration in demand patterns across each of these businesses as the quarter progressed and this weighed heavily both on our revenue and operating profit results.
The Industrial segment is our largest nonautomotive business and they had a 3% sales decrease in the quarter.
After showing modest sequential improvement in Q2 we regret somewhat over the past 3 months.
And looking at the various customer categories we see uneven levels of demand across the customer base.
Key customers in segments like food products automotive and lumber and wood products among others continue to grow.
But then customers in segments like equipment and machinery are finding it more challenging.
Equipment and machinery is our largest industry group and a number of customers in this group have been impacted by the slowdown in the oil and gas and mining and resource industries both domestically and globally.
While a near-term pickup in oil and gas and mining and resource industries is not anticipated we do anniversary the year-long slowdown that we've seen from each of these industries and we see that anniversary in the fourth quarter which will somewhat reduce the headwinds that we've encountered over the past 12 months in these 2 specific sectors.
And that combined with a steady performance from some of the other customer segments should put us in a position to show a gradual improving revenue picture in the quarters ahead.
Moving to the Electrical segment we had another challenging quarter here as well with sales coming in 5% below last year.
And we see some of the same disparity among industry segments as we've experienced in our industrial segment.
Customers tied to the transportation and housing segments are showing growth as are the contract manufacturers to the electronics industry.
But then these increases are being offset by decreases with customers in the coal and mining alternative energy and defense contract segments with the latter primarily due to sequestration.
However while early it appears that our business with the alternative energy and defense contractors is starting to stabilize and should not be as much of a headwind in the coming months.
Additionally we expect to close on a small electrical acquisition at month end which should add an additional $10 million to $12 million to our revenue over the final 2 months.
All of which should enable the Electrical Group to end the year with a more positive fourth quarter and position us for improved results in 2014.
Moving on to Office Products.
This group ended the quarter down 3% and as with several of the other businesses we saw a more pronounced deceleration late in the quarter.
From a product perspective both the cleaning and break room supplies and furniture category showed positive growth in the quarter.
But these increases were offset by decreases in the technology and office supplies categories.
From a customer perspective our national account business was up low single-digits in the quarter while our independent reseller customers were down low single-digits and both the product category and customer segment results for the quarter follow a similar pattern on a year-to-date basis as well.
So it's been a challenging year thus far for our Office Products team.
And unfortunately we don't see any material changes in the external environment in the near term.
As a result the main areas of focus for our Office Products Group are our share of wallet and market share initiatives both for our customers and ourselves as well as continued work on product and customer diversification.
Of all of our businesses Office Products has the furthest to go to get back on positive footing.
And our sense is that it's going to take a little longer than Industrial and Electrical to come back around.
So that's an overview of the nonautomotive segments and Paul will now cover the automotive operations.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
I'd like to add my welcome to each of you this morning.
I'm pleased to join Tom and Carol and to have an opportunity to provide you an update on the third quarter performance of our global automotive business.
As was mentioned in last quarter's conference call we are now including in our automotive recap the results GPC Asia Pacific which was consolidated into our results on April 1.
This business continues to perform as expected throughout Australia and New Zealand and we are encouraged with the progress we have seen thus far.
As Tom mentioned in his opening remarks we are pleased to report that our overall global automotive business grew top line revenues by 22% in the third quarter.
Now let's move on to our North American automotive business.
Our team delivered a 5.3% sales increase in the third quarter consisting of core growth of approximately 4.5% which is in line with our second quarter performance.
This 4.5% increase was offset approximately 1% due to the impact from foreign currency primarily related to our Canadian operations.
On the plus side we have the benefit of 1 additional billing day in the quarter which contributed approximately 1.5% of sales.
We would also mention that as we look at our sales results across the regions of the U.S.
we are encouraged to see that all are positively contributing to our sales growth with our Eastern division performing exceptionally well.
Within our U.S.
company-owned store group comparable same-store sales growth in the third quarter came in at plus 4.3%.
After a challenging first quarter we have now rung up consecutive quarters of better than 4% comp store sales growth.
This performance was driven by a strong 7.9% overall sales increase in the quarter or 6.1% on a per day basis in our commercial and wholesale side of the business.
Diving deeper into our commercial results our non-fleet-related business turned in another strong quarter generating a 9.7% increase or 8% on an adjusted basis.
This segment was supported by double-digit sales growth among our major account customers and high single-digit growth from our 15 000 plus NAPA AutoCare centers.
Our fleet business held steady at 5.1% growth 3.4% on an adjusted basis in the quarter which is consistent with our performance in Q2.
Our wholesale average ticket value increased low single-digit and our average number of tickets was up mid single-digit in this segment of our business.
We are encouraged by both of these sales trends.
Turning to our retail business we experienced a slowdown in this segment during the quarter and ended with sales down 1.8% or 3.3% on a same-day basis.
The month of September was especially soft.
We believe this is consistent with many other retailers' lackluster September store sales implementation of the Affordable Care Act and the first government shutdown in 17 years certainly impacted consumers' willingness to spend.
That said we were pleased to see our average retail dollar invoice trending up slightly for the quarter.
However this positive trend was offset by a slowdown in foot traffic and a slight reduction in our average number of invoices.
We will continue to drive this strategically important segment of our business with a number of ongoing sales initiatives.
From a product category standpoint we continue to see strong sales in our Electrical category primarily driven by our NAPA battery business.
Our Electrical business has been a key contributor in 2013 generating just shy of a double-digit increase.
An additional positive product trend is our improved sales in our all-important brake business.
This is significant as we experienced slowing in this critical category back in 2012 and only began to see a modest recovery in the first quarter of 2013.
Back-to-back strong sales quarters in our brake business confirms our team's efforts are succeeding in getting this business back on track.
One last mention on the product front is the comment about our seasonal air conditioning business.
Milder summer temps in some parts of the country led to a downturn in our AC business for this past quarter.
So in summary we are pleased to see both our North American and Australasian Automotive operations report another quarter of solid results.
We remain positive about the core fundamentals of the automotive aftermarket and the growth opportunities available to us in both the retail and commercial sectors.
Many of the key metrics remain positive.
Total miles driven is tracking positive for the year.
Fuel prices remain steady and the average age of vehicles on the road remains in excess of 11 years.
Our management team remains committed to driving profitable growth in the fourth quarter and we're optimistic we'll continue this growth into 2014.
We'd like to personally thank all of our associates both at NAPA North America and at GPC Asia Pacific and Australia and New Zealand for their strong efforts in the third quarter.
So that completes our overview of the Automotive business.
And at this time I'll hand it over to Carol to get us started with a review of the financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul.
We will get started with a review of our third quarter and 9-month income statements and the segment information and then we will review a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back and wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
As we turn to the income statement we want to reiterate that our September 30th third quarter and year-to-date consolidated results referenced in our commentary include GPC Asia Pacific acquired April 1.
And with that said total sales of a record high $3.7 billion for the third quarter an increase of 9% from last year as Tom mentioned.
And for the 9 months our total sales of $10.6 billion up 7% from 2012.
Before the impact of the GPC Asia Pacific acquisition total sales are up 1% for both the third quarter and year-to-date reflecting the difficult conditions in our nonautomotive businesses.
Our gross profit for the third quarter was 29.9% of sales up 100 basis points from 28.9% last year.
And for the 9 months our gross margin of 29.6% is up from the 29.0% for the same period last year or an increase of 60 basis points.
Our improvement in gross margin can be attributed to the favorable impact of higher gross margins in our Australasian business which owns 100% of its stores.
This benefit was partially offset by a slight decrease in our core North American gross margins in the third quarter primarily related to our Industrial business and to a lesser degree our automotive business.
In addition in association with the GPC Asia Pacific acquisition we recorded a $3 million expense to cost of sales in the quarter as the final piece of a purchase accounting adjustment related to the Australasian inventory writeup to fair value.
The original $18 million adjustment was recorded in the second quarter for a total year-to-date impact of $21 million.
As an additional point of interest we continue to see very little inflation in our businesses.
Our year-to-date 2013 cumulative pricing is down 2/10 of 1% in Automotive up 0.9% for Industrial up 0.5% for Office Products and up 0.8% for Electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A our total expenses were $829 million for the third quarter up 18% from 2012 and at 22.5% of sales.
For the 9 months in 2013 our total SG&amp;A expenses are $2.3 billion or up 10% and at 22.0% of sales.
Our SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of sales are up 160 and 80 basis points for the quarter and the 9 months respectively and this primarily reflects the impact of higher SG&amp;A expenses at GPC Asia Pacific again due to their 100% owned store model.
We've also seen a decrease in our leverage associated with our nonautomotive businesses.
Year-to-date our SG&amp;A includes the positive onetime pretax adjustment of $54 million net of expenses associated with the revaluation of our original 30% investment in GPC Asia Pacific that was required on April 1.
Excluding this adjustment our SG&amp;A for the 9 months as a percentage of sales was 22.5%.
We continue to focus on effective cost management in every area of our business.
A few notable cost control measures include ongoing investments in technology which has positively impacted our operating efficiencies in our distribution centers and stores as well as supply chain initiatives in areas such as freight and logistics.
Now turning to the segment results.
Our Automotive revenue for the third quarter was $2.02 billion and represents 55% of sales and is up 22.1%.
Our operating profit of $180.2 million is up 19.6% and our margin is down 20 basis points from last year to 8.9%.
This relates to some slight gross margin pressure in our North American operations which in part can be attributed to the lack of pricing which we mentioned earlier.
For the 9 months our Automotive sales were $5.57 billion representing 52% of total revenue and up 16.4%.
Our operating profit of $487.6 million is up 16.6% so the margin is up 10 basis points to 8.8% from 8.7% last year which is a very good job.
The Industrial Group had sales of $1.11 billion in the quarter and this is 30% for our total revenue and a decrease of 2.5%.
Our operating profit of $79.6 million is down 15.9% so we saw the Industrial margin decrease to 7.2% from 8.3%.
Through September Industrial sales of $3.34 billion which is 32% of our revenues are down 1.6%.
Our operating profit of $247.4 million is down 9.7% and their margin is down 70 basis points to 7.4% from 8.1% one last year.
We attribute the margin declines for the quarter and the 9 months to a decrease in volume incentives associated with lower purchasing volumes with our suppliers general gross margin pressures in a weak demand environment and a loss of leverage on the lower sales volume.
Moving on to Office Products.
We had revenues of $430.5 million which is 11% of our total sales and down 3.1% for the quarter.
Our operating profit of $28.1 million is down 6.2% so their margin is down 20 basis points to 6.5% from 6.7%.
Year-to-date Office sales of $1.25 billion represent 12% of our total revenue and are down 2.4%.
Our operating profit of $91.1 million is down 7.2% and then margin is 7.3% versus 7.6% last year or down 30 basis points.
For the quarter and the 9 months this margin decline is due to the loss of leverage on the lower sales volume.
Our Electrical Group had sales in the quarter of $142.8 million and up 4% in total revenue and down 5.3%.
Our operating profit of $12.6 million is down 6.9% so their margin came down to 8.8% from 9.0% but that's still a very strong margin.
For the year Electrical sales were $425 million which represents 4% of our total revenue and down 5%.
Our operating profit of $35.3 million is down 8.2% and their margin is down 30 basis points to 8.3% from 8.6%.
And as with the Industrial and Office businesses the decline in margin for Electrical for the quarter and the 9 months is primarily a function of the loss of leverage on the lower sales volumes for these periods.
So our total operating profit was up 4% in the third quarter and our operating profit margin decreased 40 basis points to 8.2%.
For the 9 months our total operating margin held steady with the second quarter at 8.2% but it's down from the 8.4% for the same period in 2012.
The decline in our operating margins thus far in 2013 continues to reflect the impact of weak sales conditions in our nonautomotive businesses and we would add that the operating margin at GPC Asia Pacific remains in line with our core Automotive businesses as we expected.
We remain committed to expanding our operating margin in the periods ahead through some of our ongoing initiatives.
We had net interest expense of $7 million in the third quarter.
And year-to-date our interest expense is $18.2 million.
Interest is up from 2012 due to an increase in the total debt.
And based on our current projections we would expect net interest expense of approximately $25 million to $26 million for the full year.
This has slightly improved from our prior guidance of $26 million to $28 million.
Our total amortization expense was $7.7 million for the third quarter and $20.5 million for the 9 months.
This is up from 2012 due to the Quaker City acquisition in May of last year and April's acquisition of GPC Asia Pacific.
We currently expect amortization to be in the $29 million range for the full year which is down slightly from our previous projections.
The other line which reflects corporate expense was a $14 million expense for both the third quarter and the 9 months.
This line also includes the net impact of the purchase accounting adjustments discussed earlier in association with gross profit and SG&amp;A.
In summary this amounted to a $36 million favorable adjustment in the second quarter and a $3 million expense in the third quarter.
We currently project this line to be approximately $30 million in expense for the full year.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.1% compared to 36.3% last year.
And for the 9 months our 33.9% rate compares to the 36.4% rate for the prior year.
That current rate reflects the favorable impact of lower Australian tax rate applied to GPC Asia Pacific's pretax earnings.
In addition the improvement in the year-to-date rate also reflects the favorable tax rate on the second quarter gain that was associated with the remeasurement of our Australasian investment.
We expect our tax rate in the fourth quarter to approximate 36.0% to 36.5% for an annual rate of 34.5% to 35.0% for 2013.
Our net income for the quarter of $173.7 million was up slightly and EPS of $1.12 compared to $1.11 last year was up 1%.
For the year through September our net income of $534.5 million is up 10% and our EPS of $3.43 compared to the $3.11 for 2012 was also up 10%.
Now we'll move on to the balance sheet.
Cash at September 30 was $321 million which was down from the $400 million at December 30 last year and December 31 2012.
We're pleased with our current cash position and continue to generate strong cash flows as a result of our increase in earnings our effective working capital and asset management as well as cost containment measures.
Our accounts receivable of $1.8 billion at September 30 increased 9.5% from the same period in 2012 on a 9% sales increase for the quarter.
Our goal is to grow receivables at a rate less than revenue growth so we have a little work to do in this area and we remain very focused on meeting this goal in the periods ahead.
We are very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at quarter end was $2.8 billion which is up 12% from September 20 2012 primarily due to the GPC Asia Pacific inventory added at the start of the second quarter.
Excluding the impact of Australasia our inventory is up just 1% from last year and down 2% from December 31.
So our team is doing a very good job of managing our inventory levels and we remain very focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move into the final period of 2013.
Our accounts payable balance at September 30 was $2.2 billion up 26% from September 30 of last year.
Excluding the impact of GPC Asia Pacific our payables were up 18%.
Our ongoing growth in trade payables reflects the positive impact of our extended payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors.
We're very encouraged with our improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital and days and payables.
We expect this trend to continue in the periods ahead.
Our working capital of $1.8 billion at September 30 is down approximately 26% from September of 2012 primarily due to the increase in current debt in 2013.
Excluding our current debt working capital is down approximately 5% from last year.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a very high priority for our company and our ongoing efforts with these key accounts have resulted in tremendous improvement in our working capital position and cash flows.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at September 30 of 2013.
Our total debt of $834 million at September 30 includes 2 $250 million term notes which we've carried for some time now as well as another $334 million in borrowings under our multicurrency syndicated credit facility agreement.
This adds to total debt to total capitalization of approximately 21% at September 30 which is down slightly from the 23% at June 30 while up from the 14% at September 30 the prior year.
We're comfortable with our capital structure at this time and we currently expect total debt to approximate $850 million at December 31 2013.
We should add here that as we mentioned in our last call we plan to renew the $250 million term note that's due November 30 of 2013.
Under this plan we will extend this debt for 10 years at a 2.99% fixed interest rate thus replacing the 4.67% fixed interest rate on the current note with more favorable terms.
We expect the renewal to become effective on November 30 of 2013.
As we stated earlier we continue to generate solid cash flows and expect another very strong year in 2013.
For the 9 months through September our cash from operations was approximately $837 million and for the full year we currently project cash from operations to approximate $900 million.
Likewise we expect free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends to be in the $450 million to $500 million range.
The continued strength of our cash flows is encouraging and we remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serves to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for the cash is the dividend which we paid every year since going public in 1948 and have now raised for 57 consecutive years.
This is a record that continues to distinguish Genuine Parts from other companies.
Our annual dividend of $2.15 per share for 2013 represents a 9% increase from the $1.98 per share paid in 2012 and it's approximately 52% of our 2012 earnings per share which is well within our goal of a 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our 4 businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures was $33.3 million for the third quarter up from $20.3 million in 2012.
For the 9 months our capital spending totaled $84.1 million an increase of -- an increase from the $71.6 million for the 9 months in 2012.
We expect our capital expenditures for the full year to be in the range of $130 million to $140 million and that's an increase from the $102 million in the prior year due to the addition of GPC Asia Pacific as well as some anticipated expenditures for our North American businesses.
The vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity-enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Our depreciation and amortization was $35.2 million in the quarter which is up from the $25.6 million for the third quarter in 2012.
For the year depreciation and amortization is $98.1 million compared to the $73.3 million for the same period in 2012.
The increase on this line reflects the impact of GPC Asia Pacific as well as the amortization expense related to Asia Pacific and Quaker City.
We currently expect depreciation and amortization for the full year to be $130 million to $140 million.
Strategic acquisitions continued to be an ongoing and important use of our cash for us and they're integral to the growth plans for our company.
We remain excited about the growth opportunities we see at GPC Asia Pacific and we continue to seek new acquisitions across our businesses to further enhance our prospects for future growth.
In fact our current pipeline of potential acquisitions is building somewhat today and we would expect to have more to report in this area over the next several periods.
Generally our primary targets are those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally we have been active in the company's share repurchase program since 1994.
And thus far in 2013 we've repurchased approximately 900 000 shares and we have another 11.3 million shares authorized and available for repurchase today.
We have no set pattern for these purchases but we would expect to be active in the program in the quarters ahead as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
So that is our financial update.
And in closing we want to thank all of our GPC associates including our friends in Australia and New Zealand for all that they do everyday for Genuine Parts Company.
In these challenging times our team works even harder to execute on our growth strategy our working capital and our cost-saving initiatives to help position the company for growth.
We look forward to updating you on our future progress when we report again.
I'll now turn it back over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Carol and Paul.
So that recaps our third quarter results.
And as we said at the outset it proved to be a challenging quarter for us in many ways especially so for our nonautomotive operations.
As Paul mentioned in his remarks Automotive came through the quarter in pretty good shape with overall sales growth of 22% or NAPA growth without acquisitions of 5.3% and this was led by solid same-store sales growth of 4.3% high single-digit growth in our NAPA AutoCare business and low double-digit growth in our major account business.
And our expectation is for another solid quarter from Automotive in Q4.
And as Carol covered we continue to make progress in the areas of cash generation and working capital efficiency with further improvements anticipated in the months ahead.
Where we really came up short both on the revenue and operating side was in our nonautomotive businesses.
As we look ahead to the full year we find that our revenue outlook today is quite different from our thinking back in July when we last updated our guidance.
Today we see our total sales picture down approximately $250 million to $300 million from our July guidance with the majority of this decrease coming from our nonautomotive businesses.
In the July timeframe we remain hopeful for an economic recovery over the second half of the year and this simply has not happened in the nonautomotive segments.
At least from our perspective the industrial recovery has been pushed out into 2014.
So at this time we're not expecting any help from the economy in the fourth quarter and we currently estimate a total GPC sales increase of 7% for the full year which is down from our previous guidance of 9% to 10%.
As mentioned the lower revenue guidance primarily relates to the more difficult sales environment in our nonautomotive segments.
Our current expectation is for sales in our Automotive segment to increase by approximately 18% to 19% for the full year including the sales contribution from GPC Asia Pacific.
Without this acquisition volume we expect our Automotive sales to increase in the 5% range for all of 2013 consistent with where we find ourselves now.
Turning to the other businesses we currently project Industrial sales for the full year to be down 1% to down 2% which is a reduction from our prior guidance of up 1% to up 3%.
Our current expectation is for the Electrical/Electronic segment to be down 2% to 3% for the full year which is lowered from our previous guidance of flat to up 2% and Office Products is currently projected to be down 2% to 3% for the year lowered from our prior guidance of down 1% to up 1%.
This lower sales projection combined with our third quarter results have impacted our earnings estimates for 2013 as well by approximately $0.20 the $0.25.
As a result we currently expect our EPS for the full year to be in the $4.30 to $4.35 range which is down from our previous full year guidance of $4.50 to $4.60.
So that will summarize our outlook at this point.
And certainly we're disappointed in the continued sluggishness in our nonautomotive segments.
We are encouraged by the continued solid performance in Automotive however and we think that we are starting to see a few encouraging signs in Industrial and Electrical.
And the underlying fundamentals in each of these businesses remains generally favorable.
So although we find ourselves in a soft period right now in these businesses we have been through times like these in the past and our folks know what needs to be done and we look forward to giving you an update on our progress in the next call.
At this point we'd like to open the call up to your questions and we'll turn the call back over to Jennifer.
Jennifer? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from John Lovallo of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First question Carol would be on just how we should think about normalized incremental operating margins going forward.
I mean I understand what's kind of -- with the pressure on SG&amp;A right now with the non-auto but I'm just wondering has the model changed given the consolidation of the auto APAC business? No.
On our automotive margins our margins the core business in GPC Asia Pacific really has similar margins.
So the Asia Pacific margins are not dragging us down the automotive sector.
I think what we mentioned is we had some gross margin pressures in the North American operations and really just the lack of pricing and some other gross margin pressures.
Our long-term outlook for margins is still to have 10 to 20 basis point improvement in each of our businesses with margins.
Now where we struggle with that is if we don't have some strong top line growth.
And so if you look at our year-to-date automotive margins they're still up 10 basis points and that's where we were through to 6 months.
So we really hope that we can hold there through the end of the year and look towards in the future having more improvement than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And Tom how are you guys thinking about the Advance Auto Parts recent acquisition of General Parts? I mean how is that going to affect the competitive landscape in your view? Well I think we'd start by saying this is very recent news.
It's only a few days old.
But as we think about it in the past we've had 2 really good competitors in Advance and in CARQUEST.
And I think we would compliment both management teams on arriving at this point.
But as we go forward in those markets where we competed both against an Advance store and a CARQUEST store it appears that we will be competing against 1 competitor and not 2 albeit 1 larger and 1 strong competitor.
So it's very early in the days in terms of how we think it's going to affect things.
But one thing that does appear evident is that we're going to have 4 players at the very top of the pyramid that are going to be significantly larger than those players position 5 and on down.
And I don't know how that plays out over time but it could lead to some additional consolidation as we go forward.
And hopefully we'll be able to participate in that as we see the opportunities arise.
Your next question comes from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The first question I'd like to ask relates to the government shutdown more broadly.
Obviously you saw your business trail off in a number of sectors late in September and there were some extraordinary circumstances presumably associated with that.
And at least for the moment those drivers came to some resolution a day or 2 ago.
To what degree as you think about -- and it was interesting that you did not call out government-linked businesses as essential drivers of the slowdown there are other industries that seem to be behind it to what degree do you think this was a factor as you spoke to your customers and it's probably way too early to say have you seen any kind of thaw but how would you expect that to play out going forward? Matt we'll try to take the first part of it.
And it did in fact impact some of the demand in the quarter.
I think we saw some of that where we -- in our Electrical business for instance where we deal with defense contractors and they continue to have some issues in terms of builds.
Certainly we saw it in the Office Products business indirectly where we sell to customers who sell into the governmental agencies.
So we saw that demand drop off somewhat.
As far as what happens now that we have at least a temporary resolution it is too early to tell and we'll just have to wait and see how it develops over the next couple of weeks.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Secondly within Automotive your commercial sales numbers were quite strong.
And presumably they would imply some market share gains.
So I guess I'd appreciate Paul's perspective on what you think your market share trends were in each of the commercial and DIY pieces of automotive? Well Matt specifically on the commercial side you're referencing both our major account business and our NAPA AutoCare business and we did have really good quarters with both businesses.
I don't think their businesses overall are growing quite at the rates that we are so you'd have to -- one would have to assume we're taking a bit of share.
We also picked up a new customer a new major account some new major account business in the quarter that we hadn't enjoyed before that will add about 600 stores for us on a go-forward basis.
So we're very pleased with that win.
On the DIY side Matt we were going along pretty good in June -- I'm sorry in July and August and really saw a slowdown in September.
And back to your question about the impact of the government shutdown so it's difficult to say directly that that had an impact.
But you got to believe consumers clammed up in those last couple of weeks in September because the falloff in the last week was fairly significant.
Research Division</strong> Was there any regionality to the slowdown that you saw in September? I know that this industry has gone through moments of regional volatility in 2012.
Any signs of that here in this most recent episode? No not really Matt.
As I think I mentioned in my comments we're -- this year unlike last year we're seeing growth across every division of the country.
And I think I pointed out the northeastern part of the U.S.
we're seeing stronger growth.
But across the U.S.
we're seeing single-digit increases across every division.
Research Division</strong> The last question I have you mentioned M&amp;A and it sounded like bolt-ons more than anything else.
Of course with the Advance-CARQUEST deal one wonders if you're kind of inspired to look at bigger deals I don't know if there's much left in automotive of size.
But are you thinking now about perhaps a larger-sized transaction than you would have done in the U.S.? Or are we still talking primarily smaller deals? Oh I think that we'd have to wait to see what opportunities present themselves.
But we're very much open to strategic acquisitions that benefit the GPC shareholders regardless of size.
We'll look at any opportunity that may come forward.
Matt one other point I'd want to make Paul mentioned the major account win that we had.
And just to be clear that really had minimal impact in the quarter.
That's something that we think will help us to have some incremental growth in Q4 and then on through next year.
It's still very early in its evolution.
Your next question comes from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow-up on the Auto margins especially how they seem to inflect downward this quarter.
Is the $3 million hit was that -- I guess it's about 15 bps so that really the margins may have been flattish in pricing.
Is there an inability to pass through some price increases? Or is it that competition has actually taken price down to hit margin? Well let me just clarify this the $3 million inventory adjustment is in the other net line consistent with how we did at second quarter.
So the purchase accounting adjustments have been pulled out of the Automotive margins that you see.
So that's not in the 8.9%.
And my reference really wasn't an inability to pass along price increases.
There's just no pricing in the environment it's just some downward pressure on gross margin.
But again we're kind of pointing back to the 9-month numbers and saying we're still in pretty good shape year-to-date.
So it's not anything specific it's just a little bit of gross margin pressures.
And it's North America it's a bit Canada as well as the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Could the -- with DIY having sort of weakened sequentially or do-it-for-me side holding up would mix have been a reasonable part of that? Absolutely.
Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second on the Industrial business.
Tom one thing we've noticed it seems like a lot of the traditional metrics that lead your Industrial business like industrial production have actually been better than the results they've actually been.
Do you think there's something going on? There's seems to at least be a disconnect.
Do you see that? Or do you think there's something wrong with the traditional metrics that just don't matter as much anymore for some reason? Greg I'm going to try to answer it in a couple of different ways.
First of all if we look at our Industrial business we've got segments that are performing fine and reacting as you would expect them historically to some of the leading indicators.
So I called out automotive food processing lumber and wood products as 3 examples.
But then we have other segments that are not reacting as they might have historically.
And there are more specific issues whether it be in oil and gas or mining and resource.
They are being impacted both by the slowdown in the U.S.
as well as the global markets.
So any of those companies that might have been producing for export their export business is under pressure because of what's happening globally.
So that would be one thing.
The other thing is in looking at the indices at least 3 of the ones that we follow there seems to be some inconsistency there as well.
If you look at the ISM Purchasing Managers Index it is fairly strong right now and certainly nicely up on where it was this time last year.
If you look at industrial production and capacity utilization you see a slightly different story in that if we compare industrial production for Q2 to industrial production Q2 last year it's up 1% much less than what the PMI is up quarter-over-quarter.
And if we look at capacity utilization Q2 this year to Q2 last year well it's still at a historically reasonable level in Q2 of this year.
It's actually down about 1% of where it was this time last year.
So we see a lot of inconsistency within the numbers.
We haven't yet concluded that there's any structural change.
We think that over time all of this will start to even out a bit.
We think that the fundamentals in the business are still favorable as we go forward.
And we're optimistic that as we cycle through some of this that we'll get to more historical-type performance in these businesses.
And maybe just to add a little color to what I mentioned earlier if we look at the impact of what happened to us in those specific original equipment manufacturing sectors that I've called out that cost us 3% in year-to-date revenue growth.
That's how impactful it was.
And the good news is that we've now anniversaried that and while we don't see those segments snapping back quickly we certainly don't see the same headwind that we faced over the past 4 quarters.
And if we go over to the Electrical business if we look at what's happened there largely because of some slowdown in the defense contractor segment that's cost us about 2% on a year-to-date basis.
And again we don't expect that to come back significantly in the near-term but at the same time we don't expect it to erode the way that it had thus far this year.
So those 2 things in particular have impacted those 2 businesses if that helps with any color.
Research Division</strong> That helps a lot Tom.
And if I could lastly just on Office the fact that the sales are falling but the margins are pulling pretty steady just down a little bit.
What's the real strategy there especially with consolidation also appearing to take hold in the Office Products space? It's largely helping our customers grow their business.
And if we can help them enhance their share of wallet or their market share through different initiatives then that in turn will benefit us.
And then we need to continue down the path of some diversification both on the product side as well as on the customer portfolio side.
We're working pretty diligently in both of those areas.
And we've made some progress in each case but we still have a bit more to do in both areas.
But that's the strategy right now.
And right now this is the business that's most challenged and we don't think that there are as many early signs of encouragement for this business yet.
But at some point it will revert closer to the norm even with the structural change from a product standpoint with pick the best product in secular decline.
Eventually this business is going to come back.
And in the meantime it generates a lot of cash gives us a good operating margin and it gives us time to continue to rebalance the business a bit.
Your next question comes from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch back on the Advance GPI acquisition.
And more specifically on the independent stores at CARQUEST.
I was wondering how you think about that basis stores and that base of owners? Are they're going through what's obviously going to be a big change would you be interested in expanding the store count by trying to attract some of those independents? And I don't know if you've done any work in terms of store over the last or anything but is that a base that might be attractive? Well as a general statement David part of our growth strategy is to increase the store count year-over-year 1% to 2% at a minimum and we'll hit the low end of that this year which we're proud of.
If we have an opportunity to do it more rapidly because of whatever circumstance certainly we're interested in doing that.
The one thing I would say is that it appears right now that NAPA may be the only national organization that still has a strong commitment to the independent ownership and we'll continue to do everything we can to build on that base and to support the independent owner base as we go forward.
So -- and I'd also say we've done enough acquisitions over time to have learned that in any acquisition certainly there are some operating synergies that can be affected.
But at least in our case there've been very few if any acquisitions where we're able to retain all of the revenue.
We've seen a number of reasons why at least a portion of your revenue may be prone to a little bit of slippage.
And if that happens in this particular case then we hope we're in a position to perhaps pick up a little of that.
But it's way too early for us to say categorically we know how it's going to work out.
But we'll continue to follow it with a great deal of interest and hopefully there's some positive in it for us as well.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I just wanted to go back to the inflation issue again.
It sounds like that has clearly decelerated this year.
And I think last quarter you mentioned that what you're saying is broadly speaking competition was kind of keeping a lid on inflation.
Is that still the case? Or is there anything else that's going on in terms of the inflation dynamics? No.
I think that's generally the case.
But I would also say that we don't see any evidence of predatory pricing or price wars going on.
We've been through periods like that at times in the past.
But that's not a situation today.
Input costs have gone down for vendors in more recent times and that also has mitigated their need for some price increases.
Your next question comes from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know maybe it's difficult to answer because it's hard to know what competitors might do.
But Tom you just talked about you really haven't seen anything on the irrational front in terms of pricing et cetera.
Do you think Advance buying CARQUEST Worldpac changes that dynamic at all going forward? I don't have any reason to think that today.
We'll have to wait and see.
The nice thing about the larger competitors is that we're all publicly traded and we've all got the need to report our numbers.
And I think that leads to some rationalism or at least a degree of rationalism among each of these companies.
So I don't know that we'll see that.
And if we do we'll just have to respond accordingly.
We're not going to donate share after working so hard to gain share.
So we'll continue to work our strategies and our initiatives for sell side and buy side.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then can I just clarify I mean you've talked about some of the things that should ease in the fourth quarter.
Obviously the government shutdown hopefully at least a temporary reprieve there.
Also the 3% that you referenced in terms of now anniversary-ing some of the clients that we've seen previously.
We also talked about trends decelerating through the third quarter on the non-auto side.
So I'm just wondering is there something else that you feel a little bit better about the fourth quarter? Or is it really just those 2 factors? Well those 2 factors for sure.
And then I mentioned that we had a small acquisition that we're going to do at month end for the Electrical Group.
We have 1 or 2 others that we hope to add into the Industrial/Electrical segments between now and yearend which I think will help a little bit and set us up for a little improvement as we go into next year.
And then don't forget our comps get easier in Q4.
We had some difficult comps last year.
So the comps in and of themselves are a little bit easier as we work our way toward yearend.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
So no real change in pace of business but easier comparisons through a couple of acquisitions in there as well as the other things.
I think that's right Scot.
Your next question comes from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions and one of them I guess the North America pricing looks pretty stagnant.
How is actually pricing looking? Could you maybe give us a little bit more color on how we look on the Australian business and maybe all over the year ago of sort of what the growth trend have looked like down there? Well we don't break out the segment data for those businesses.
I will tell you I will comment this way as you probably know the economy in Australia and New Zealand is pretty sluggish because of what's happened in the mining and resource sector down there and that has had a ripple effect through the economy.
So it's slowed down a good bit.
With that said however our team continues to do a very good job in executing their strategies.
And their results would be outpacing the industry results down there and their results would be comparable to what we're doing here in terms of organic growth.
So we're very pleased with what we see.
And frankly we're a bit optimistic as they continue to roll out some of the strategies down here.
From a pricing standpoint pretty much the same picture is what we see here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on AP inventory you've gotten that up pretty nicely.
How much runway is left? And is the Automotive portion of your inventory pretty well levered on the payables model and you need to bring the industrial folks into the fold? Or is there room to move aggregate AP inventory much higher? I think the latter comment is where we find it.
There is room to move the aggregate higher.
We were pleased with the progress that we've made through the 9 months.
We see more progress that will be made over the upcoming 3 months.
And we continue to work this as an important part of our overall strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then sorry for that one a regional performance question.
I think you used the word exceptional to describe the East.
Is that -- does the feeling like there's pent up demand that's coming back to the market or is it just such an easy comparison off of a top 2012 we're seeing this growth.
Is it -- I guess if you look over a cycle does it feel like you're growing better than you would be just with the easy comparison that you saw? I think it's a little bit of both Bret.
But I would also tell you that our team has done a good job of capturing some new business up in that market as well.
So it's a little bit of both plus some new bids.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And one housekeeping your full year guidance does or does not include the second quarter $0.22 benefit? It includes it.
Your next question comes from Seth Basham with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I have a couple of others.
If you wouldn't mind parsing out the margins on the Auto business a little bit further.
If I understand it correctly gross margin was down slightly and SG&amp;A margin was down slightly.
As you look forward do you expect that trend to persist if you maintain the same level of sales growth? Seth one is we don't specifically call out gross margins or SG&amp;A by each of our segments.
But in our commentary and what we did mention on the Automotive side their operating margin decrease was solely attributed to the gross margin impact.
Their SG&amp;A was actually slightly improved.
So they're doing a very good job on the cost side.
So again if we can work through these gross margin pressures and we're working very hard on that and we looked to the year-to-date number again being up 10 basis points again we're doing a pretty good job in the SG&amp;A area.
So that wasn't an issue there.
Our long-term margin outlook for all of our businesses is 8% 8.5%.
So we're really pleased to see Automotive where they are right now.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And on the DIY side in the Auto segment with the slowdown at the end of the quarter and now the government shutdown over would you expect a rebound? Is there any pent-up demand that will come back? Or are those sales lost for good? I think those sales are probably gone.
If you look at the history of the DIY business across the industry it's been under pressure for a number of quarters.
And I think that's partly attributable to the fact that do-it-for-me is going to grow at a faster rate for quite some time than the do-it-yourself will be.
But Paul mentioned we were a little bit encouraged actually by what we saw in July and August and felt that maybe we were going to have a bit better quarter than the way it turned out.
But we did in fact see a dropoff in September and most of that dropoff happened late in the month.
But if there's any encouraging information in there it's that the basket size was actually up a little bit.
But it was the ticket count that was off for the traffic in the stores.
We'll have to see if it reverts back to the more normal pattern.
We did see improved ticket count in July and August but we gave it all back in September.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And can you give any more color on the initiatives you're undertaking within the Auto segments to grow the commercial business beyond major accounts and NAPA AutoCare? No they would be the 2 and we would not want to go any further than that on the call.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Last question on the Industrial side.
Looking at the trends you're seeing the OEM manufacturer customer base.
Are those trends sort of stabilizing at low level so that we'll see no impact on a year-over-year basis going forward? Or do you expect incremental headwinds on a year-over-year basis going forward? They have -- they do appear to be stabilizing albeit at a lower level.
Whether or not we see some growth off of the current levels over the next quarter or 2 I don't have a feel for.
But just because of the magnitude of the dropoff that we've experienced we don't see that being the headwind that it has been for the last 4 quarters.
Our final question comes from Brent Rakers with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tom I was hoping to follow-up on the comments you made within Industrial about the difference in OEM and MRO performance being about 300 basis points this quarter.
Could you maybe take us back to the last 2 or 3 quarters as well and maybe talk to what the disconnect in performance was in these previous quarters as well? It's actually 3% on a year-to-date basis not one quarter specific.
That's what the impact has been over the 9 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Tom I am reading that correctly.
That is not specific to the specific verticals but it actually relates to the entirety of your OEM portion of that business? No.
It relates to the decreases we've seen with customers in the oil and gas and mining and resource sectors.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then just one last point of clarification.
I think in maybe your opening comments or maybe in response to one of the other questions you talked about encouraging signs in Industrial and Electrical.
Is there anything beyond I think the earlier question was asked about an acquisition that's on the Electrical side and then the comps are there other signs that are encouraging to you besides those? Well I'll give you one other data point and we track what we call our project work in the Industrial business.
And we were encouraged in that the amount of project work that we've got has held steady from Q2 to Q3 which we think is a little bit of a positive.
Part of the offset to that though is while we haven't seen any decline in the pending project work we have seen some of these projects be pushed out.
Our expectation is that they will start to flow through some in Q4 some in Q1.
But until we actually get the order and get the release we can't be absolutely certain.
But we are somewhat encouraged by the fact that we didn't see any dropoff.
And these are projects that are going to be used to expand capacity within plants or improved productivity within plants.
So there's somewhat of an indicator we think of the plants' willingness to make some capital expenditures and to continue to invest back into their businesses for future growth.
Well we thank you for joining us on our call today and we look forward to talking to you at our fourth quarter and yearend results.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Bridget and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company fourth quarter and 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] And now I would like to turn the call over to Sid Jones Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Jones you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts fourth quarter and 2013 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for 2014.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
This morning we will begin with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue the President of Genuine Parts Company along with Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of today's call.
And once we've completed our individual comments we will look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Early this morning we released our fourth quarter and year-end results and hopefully you have all had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3 518 000 000 which was up 13%.
Net income was $150.5 million which was down 6% on a reported basis but up 3% on a comparative basis taking into consideration the one time pension curtailment gain of $23.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Earnings per share were $0.97 this year versus $1.03 last year which was down 6% on a reported basis but up 4% on a comparative basis.
For the full year sales were $14.78 billion which was up 8%.
Net income was $685 million up 6% and earnings per share were $4.40 this year versus $4.14 last year and thats an EPS increase of 6%.
Sales net income and earnings per share each reached record levels for us in 2013 which we were pleased to see.
And we are also pleased that our fourth quarter results in each of these areas helped us to slightly outperform the full year guidance that was provided at the end of the third quarter indicating a bit stronger fourth quarter than we had originally anticipated.
As we look at our segment results we continue to see the automotive operations outperforming our non-automotive businesses by a pretty good margin.
Paul will comment on automotive in a few minutes but just to help illustrate this point automotive sales were up 18.5% for the year while the combined non-automotive operations were down 1.3% which shows quite a contrast in performance.
And I will make a few comments about each of the non-automotive businesses starting with industrial.
2013 was a challenging year for Motion Industries right from the offset.
First quarter sales were down 2% followed by 1% decrease in the second quarter and 2.5% decrease in Q3.
We were a bit encouraged by the 3% increase in the final quarter however and Motion ended the year down about one-half of 1%.
If we look at the results by customer category as a group those customers in the automotive food products pulp and paper and lumber and wood products segment among others each showed nice growth for the year.
Our challenges were primarily in the equipment and machinery category largely a result of several heavy equipment manufacturers who experienced sluggish demand both in North America and in their export markets.
And as a result the equipment and machinery segment was down for the year.
We are encouraged however by the fact that nine of our top ten customer categories had positive growth for the year and this combined with historically healthy industrial production and capacity utilization levels as well as our recently completed industrial acquisition of CSI in Western Canada all position us to look for a stronger performance from our industrial operations in 2014.
Moving on to EIS our electrical segment.
It is very much a similar story to the industrial business with decreases of 5% 4% and 5% over the first three quarters of the year followed by a positive fourth quarter of plus 6% aided by an acquisition completed at the end of October.
And EIS ended the year down 2%.
There were a number of factors that influenced the EIS results in 2013 including the impact of sequestration on the defense contractor customers and also the fairly significant decline in copper pricing.
However as we look forward we are a bit more optimistic.
Although copper pricing may continue to be a bit of headwind at least in the early part of 2014 business seems to be improving and a bit more stable for our defense contractor customers.
Additionally we ended 2014 with two consecutive quarters showing the ISM Purchasing Managers Index above 50 which is a stronger position than we found ourselves in going into 2013.
And in addition over the past few months we have completed a couple of strategic bolt-on type acquisitions for EIS.
And the combination of improving end-market conditions and the recent acquisitions put EIS in a position to deliver a much stronger performance in 2014.
And the final of our non-automotive businesses is office products.
After the positive results in the fourth quarter of 2012 we went into 2013 cautiously optimistic.
However we saw conditions soften again as we worked our way through the year and we were down 1% in the first quarter down 3% in quarters 2 and 3 and down 4% in the final quarter and we ended the year down 3%.
And looking at the office product results from the product category side we had positive results for the year in cleaning and break room supplies as well in the furniture category.
But then these increases were offset by decreases in the technology and core office supplies categories.
On the customer side the mega channel grew modestly for us for the year but our independent reseller segment was down as it had been through all four quarters of the year.
So it was a difficult year for our office products team and of our four business segments this is the one that will be the most challenged in 2014 due to continued end-market sluggishness.
With that said however we will still be looking for an improved year from office products in the year ahead.
A combination of continued product and customer portfolio initiatives and the recently completed acquisition in the janitorial supply category should enable us to produce modest growth in the year ahead.
So thats a quick overview of the three non-automotive businesses and we will now ask Paul to give you an update on the automotive operations.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
It's good to be with you today and to have an opportunity to provide an update on the fourth quarter performance of our automotive business.
As was mentioned in both our second and third quarter conference calls we are now including in our automotive recap the results from GPC Asia Pacific which was consolidated into our results on April 1.
To kick off our automotive report we can tell you that despite the challenging economic environment in this region our Australasian business continued to perform as expected throughout both Australia and New Zealand and we are encouraged with the progress we have seen thus far.
This group led by CEO John Moller has put plans in motion to have another solid year in 2014.
As Tom mentioned in his opening remarks our automotive business grew top line revenues by 25% in the fourth quarter.
To further explain the numbers breakout as follows.
Acquisitions contributed 19% of the 25% our core business grew 7% and currency had a negative impact of 1%.
Now let me take you through our North American numbers and provide an overview of our fourth quarter performance.
As mentioned earlier our team delivered a 7% sales increase in the quarter.
When evaluating our performance we are encouraged to see that all regions of the U.S.
are positively contributing to our sales growth.
The top performers in the quarter not surprisingly were those that were most impacted by the colder winter temperatures.
So our division stretching from the plains across the Great Lakes to the Northeast led the way for us in the fourth quarter.
These colder temperatures provided positive momentum for a number of our key product categories as well.
That said the most recent extreme weather in some southern states as well as up and down the eastern seaboard has forced numerous store and customer closures and had a negative impact on our business.
The net-net of all this extreme weather we believe will be a positive for automotive business in the long run.
Now turning to our U.S.
company-owned store group.
Comparable same-store sales growth in the fourth quarter came in at plus 7%.
This improved performance gives us three consecutive quarters of strong same store sales growth.
As a reminder after a slow start to 2013 our team posted a 5% increase in Q2 followed by a 4% increase in Q3.
So we are delighted to report steady and consistent growth throughout the year.
Our sales growth in Q4 was once again driven by a healthy 7% increase in our commercial and wholesale business.
Diving deeper into our commercial results our non-fleet related business turned in another stronger quarter generating a 9% increase.
This segment was supported by double-digit sales growth among our major customers as well as double-digit growth from our 15 000 plus NAPA AutoCare centers.
We are very pleased with the progress our team continues to make in this all important segment of our business.
Our fleet business held steady at 5.7% growth again a positive sign as head into the New Year.
Our average wholesale ticket value increased low single-digits and our average number of tickets was up mid-single digit in this segment of our business for the second consecutive quarter.
We are encouraged by both of these trends.
The fourth quarter was also the strongest of the year for our retail business as our team generated a 3% increase.
Both our average ticket value and our average number of tickets grew in the low to mid-single digit range.
It is encouraging to see that the initiatives our team is focused on are beginning to drive improved results.
From a product category standpoint we continue to see improved sales in our electrical category primarily driven by our NAPA battery business.
Not surprisingly the colder winter temperature throughout much of the country also drove increased in both our starter and alternator business.
Our electrical business was a key contributor throughout 2013 and this group has gotten off to another impressive start in 2014.
An additional positive product trend is our improved sales in our all important brake business.
This is significant as we experienced slowing in this critical category in 2012 and into the first quarter of 2013.
We began to see our business ramp up in Q2 and we have experienced double-digit increases in both Q3 and Q4.
This improved performance confirms the initiatives we put into place have succeeded in getting our brake business back on track.
So in summary we are encouraged to see both our North American and Australasian automotive operations report another quarter of solid results.
We remain positive about the core fundamentals of the automotive aftermarket and the growth opportunities available to us in both the retail and commercial sectors.
Many of the key metrics remain positive.
The average cost of fuel has declined in many regions of the country and this serves to drive the all important miles driven metric which is trending up despite a very slight one-tenth of 1% decline in the month of November.
The average age of vehicles on the road remains in excess of 11 years and deferred maintenance remains at historically numbers.
All of these fundamentals are trending in the right direction and should continue to drive industry-wide growth in 2014 and beyond.
So in closing we are pleased with our fourth quarter results and encouraged by the sequential improvement we saw throughout 2013.
We are very proud of our management team and know they remain committed to driving profitable growth in 2014.
While we have much work ahead of us we remain optimistic that the initiatives we have put into play are having a positive impact on our results.
We would like to personally thank all of our associates both at NAPA North America and at GPC Asia-Pac and Australia and New Zealand for their efforts in the fourth quarter and throughout 2013.
So that completes our overview of the automotive business and at this time I'll hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul.
We will get started with a review of our fourth quarter and full-year income statements and our segment information and then we will review a few key balance sheet items.
Tom will come back and wrap it up and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
As Tom mentioned our total revenues were $3.5 billion for the fourth quarter an increase of 13% from last year.
And for the 12-months total sales of $14.1 billion up 8% from 2012 and another record sales level for Genuine Parts Company.
Before the positive impacts of our fourth quarter acquisitions and the GPC Asia Pacific acquisition on April 1 2013 our total revenues were up 4% in the fourth quarter and this was offset by 1% headwind from currency.
For the year total sales were up 1% before acquisitions reflecting a 4% underlying sales increase for our automotive group offset by 1% sales decrease for our non-automotive businesses.
Our gross profit for the fourth quarter was 31.0% of sales which is up 180 basis points from the 29.2% of sales last year.
And for the 12-months gross margin of 30% is up from the 29% for the same period last year or an increase of 100 basis points.
Our improvement in gross margins for both the fourth quarter and the full year can be primarily attributed to the favorable impact of higher gross margins in our Australasian business which owns a hundred percent of its stores.
Excluding the impact of GPC Asia Pacific our underlying gross margin for the quarter and the year was up slightly despite the headwind of lower volume incentives in our non-automotive businesses primarily industrial during the year.
In the second and third quarters of 2013 we recorded expenses of $18 million and $3 million respectively to cost of sales as purchase accounting adjustments for the write-up of inventory to fair value at GPC Asia Pacific.
This write-up negatively impacted our full-year gross margin by approximately 15 basis points.
So a good amount of activity impacting our gross margins in 2013 especially as it relates to GPC Asia Pacific and their hundred percent-owned store model.
Looking ahead we will continue to seek opportunities for further margin expansion and currently expect gross margin to improve slightly from the 30% achieved in 2013.
As an additional point of interest we continue to see very little inflation in our businesses.
For 2013 our cumulative pricing was down negative 0.1% for automotive up 1.1% for industrial up 0.5% for office products and up 1% for electrical.
Excuse us.
We understand the line went out for a few minutes so I am going to back Carol up to -- come at the beginning of your session Caro.
They couldnt tell us exactly where we went out but we got a notification the audio was dead.
It may have been just for a few minutes.
Operator if you can tell us anything more specific we will try to start at the appropriate spot.
We apologize for the problems folks but here we go.
Okay.
We will start off with total revenues for the fourth quarter were $3.5 billion an increase of 13% from last year.
For the 12 months our total sales of $14.1 billion were up 8% from 2012 another record sales level for Genuine Parts Company.
Before the positive impacts of our fourth quarter acquisitions and the GPC Asia Pacific acquisition on April 1 2013 total revenues were up 4% in the fourth quarter and this was offset by 1% headwind from currency.
For the year total sales were up 1% before acquisitions reflecting a 4% underlying sales increase for our automotive group offset by 1% sales decrease for our non-automotive businesses.
Gross profit for the fourth quarter was 31.0% of sales up 180 basis points from the 29.2% of sales last year.
And for the 12-months gross margin of 30% is up from the 29% for the same period last year or an increase of 100 basis points.
Our improvement in gross margins for both the fourth quarter and the full year can be primarily attributed to the favorable impact of higher gross margins in our Australasian business which owns a hundred percent of its stores.
Excluding the impact of GPC Asia Pacific our underlying gross margin for the quarter and the year was up slightly despite the headwind of lower volume incentives in our non-automotive businesses primarily industrial during the year.
In the second and third quarters of 2013 we recorded expenses of $18 million and $3 million respectively to cost of sales as purchase accounting adjustments for the write-up of inventory to fair value at GPC Asia Pacific.
This write-up negatively impacted our full-year gross margin by approximately 15 basis points.
So a good amount of activity impacting our gross margins in 2013 especially as it relates to GPC Asia Pacific and their hundred percent-owned store model.
Looking ahead we will continue to seek opportunities for further margin expansion and currently expect gross margin to improve slightly from the 30% achieved in the prior year.
As an additional point of interest we continue to see very little inflation in our businesses.
For 2013 cumulative pricing was down negative 0.1% in automotive up 1.1% in industrial up 0.5% in office products and up 1% in electrical.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Total expenses were $856 million in the fourth quarter representing 24.3% of sales.
For the 12-months in 2013 total SG&amp;A expenses are $3.2 billion or 22.6% of sales.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales are up 320 and 140 basis points for the quarter and the full year respectively.
Much like the change in gross margins this primarily reflects the impact of higher SG&amp;A cost at GPC Asia-Pacific again due to their hundred percent-owned store model.
The decrease in leverage associated with the weak sales levels of our non-automotive businesses also served to negatively impact our operating cost in both the quarter and the year.
In addition certain year-end expense adjustments in areas such as legal and professional services insurance and employee benefits were recorded in the fourth quarter which slightly increased our expenses in the period.
It's also important to point out in the fourth quarter of 2012 the company recorded a onetime non-cash curtailment gain of $23.5 million associated with our December 2012 decision to freeze our pension plan which was effective January 1 2014.
Our total year SG&amp;A also includes the positive onetime pretax adjustment of $54 million net of expenses associated with the reevaluation of our original 30% investment in GPC Asia-Pacific that was acquired on April 1 2013.
Excluding both the 2012 and the 2013 onetime adjustments SG&amp;A as a percent of sales is 22.9% in 2013 compared to 21.4% in 2012.
With the increase due mostly to GPC Asia Pacific but also reflecting a 30 to 40 basis point increase related to the loss of leverage in our non-automotive businesses which we tend to improve on in 2014.
Our focus remains on effective cost management in every areas of our business.
A few notable cost control measures include ongoing investments in technology which has positively impacted our operating efficiencies in our distribution centers and stores as well as supply chain initiatives in areas such as freight and logistics.
Through these initiatives and in consideration of the GPC Asia Pacific store model for the full 12-months we expect our SG&amp;A for 2014 to be relatively consistent with the prior year.
Now let's discuss the segment results.
Automotive revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.92 billion and represents 54% of sales and is up 25%.
Our operating profit of $154 million is up 26% and their margin held even the prior year at 8.0%.
For the full year automotive sales were $7.5 billion representing 53% of our revenue and up 18.5%.
Operating profit of $641.5 million is up 19% and so their 8.6% margin is the same as the prior year.
Our industrial sales were $1.09 billion in the fourth quarter and this is 31% of total revenue and up 3% from the prior year.
Our operating profit of $73.3 million is down 6% and our operating margin of 6.8% was down from the 7.4% in the prior year.
For the 12-months industrial sales were $4.43 billion which is 31% of total revenue and down 0.5%.
Our operating profit of $321 million is down 9% and their margin of 7.2% is down 70 basis points from the 7.9% in 2012.
Some margin decreases in industrial for both the quarter and the year are due to the loss of leverage on weak sales and a decrease in volume incentives with our suppliers.
Some improved top line growth in 2014 will help these margins.
Our office products revenues were $386 million in the quarter which is 11% of our total revenues and down 4.3%.
Our operating profit of $31.4 million is down 13.6% so their margin was down to 8.1% from 9.0% last year.
For the year office sales were $1.64 billion representing 12% of total revenue and down 2.9%.
Operating profit of $122.5 million is down 8.9% and their margin is 7.5% versus 8.0% last year or down 50 basis points.
This is due primarily to the loss of leverage on their weak sale and also to a lesser degree lower vendor allowances.
The electrical/electronic group had sales in the quarter of $144 million thats 4% of our revenue and that was up 6.3% driven by acquisitions.
Their operating profit of $12.3 million is down 1.4% so their margin came down to 8.5% from 9.2%.
For the year electrical sales were $569 million representing 4% of revenue and down 2.4%.
Operating profit of $47.6 million is down 6.5% and their margin was down 30 basis points from 8.7% to 8.4%.
As with industrial and office the decline in margin is primarily a function on the loss of leverage on their lower sales volume in 2013.
The total operating profit was up approximately 9% in the quarter and operating profit margin of 7.7% was down 30 basis points which is a slight improvement from the 40-basis points year-over-year decrease in the third quarter.
For the full year our total operating profit is up 5% and our margin of 8.0% is down 30 basis points from the 8.3% in 2012.
The decline in our operating margins for the quarter and the year reflects the continued impact of our weak sales conditions in our non-automotive businesses.
That said the automotive business has held their margin constant for a few periods now and we think we can improve on this by 10 to 20 basis points in the periods ahead.
Thus far the operating margin at GPC Asia Pacific remains comparable to the margin for the total automotive group as we expected.
We have room for improvement in each of our core businesses and we remain committed to expanding our operating margin in the periods ahead through improved top line growth as well as our ongoing initiative.
We had net interest expense of $6 million in the fourth quarter and for the year our interest expense is $24.3 million which is up from 2012 due to the increase in our total debt.
Based on our recently renewed term note discussed in further details in a few minutes as well as the possibility of reducing our current debt somewhat in 2014 we expect net interest expense to improve to approximately $20 million for the full year of 2014.
Our total amortization expense was $8.5 million for the fourth quarter and is $29 million for the full year.
This is up from 2012 due primarily to the Quaker City and GPC Asia Pacific acquisitions as well as the other industrial and electrical acquisitions that were completed in the fourth quarter.
Currently we expect amortization expense to be in the $35 million range for 2014.
The other line which reflects corporate expense was a $21 million expense item in the fourth quarter and $35 million expense for the full year.
The full year number includes the $33 million net benefit of the purchase accounting adjustments related to GPC Asia Pacific which were recorded in the second and third quarters of 2013.
Likewise the $23.5 million pension curtailment gain reported in the fourth quarter of 2012 is also included in this line for the prior year.
With these items in mind we project the corporate expense line to be in the $60 million to $70 million range again for 2014.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.2% compared to 36.4% last year.
For the year our 34.4% rate compares to the 36.4% for the same period last year with the improved tax rate due to the favorable impact of lower Australian tax rate applied to GPC Asia Pacific pretax earnings as well as a favorable tax rate on the purchase accounting gain generated by the re-measurement of our 30% investment.
We expect our tax rate in 2014 to approximate 36% to 36.5%.
Net income for the quarter was $150.5 million and EPS of $0.97 compared to $1.03 last year or down 6%.
After considering the pension curtailment gain of $23.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 which impacted EPS by $0.10 EPS in the fourth quarter was up 4% on a comparative basis.
For the full year net income of $685 million and EPS of $4.40 are both up 6% from the prior year.
Now we'll discuss a few key balance sheet items.
Our cash at December 31 was $197 million which is down from the approximately $400 million at December 31 2012.
Strong cash flows from the increase in our earnings and our ongoing working capital initiatives were offset by the use of cash for acquisitions and other investing activities.
With that said we're still very satisfied with our current cash position at December 31.
Our accounts receivable of $1.7 billion at December 31 increased 12% from 2012 on a 13% sales increase for the quarter.
So we're pleased with this level of receivables and we remain focused on our growth goal of growing receivables at a rate less than the revenue growth in the periods ahead.
We're also very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at the end of the year was $2.9 billion which is up 13% from December 2012 primarily due to the GPC Asia Pacific and our other acquisitions in 2013.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions our inventory is up 1% from last year.
So our team continued to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels.
We remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move forward into 2014.
Our accounts payable balance at December 31 was $2.3 billion or up 35% from December 31 last year due to the positive impact of our extended payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors as well as the impact of GPC Asia Pacific.
Our improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital and days in payables is quite encouraging.
We expect this trend to continue in the periods ahead.
Our working capital of $2.0 billion at December 31 compares to $2.3 billion at December 31 2012.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a high priority for our company and our ongoing efforts in these key accounts have resulted in tremendous improvement in our working capital position and cash flow and our balance sheet remains in excellent condition as of December 31 2013.
Our total debt of $765 million at December 31 2013 includes two $250 million term notes as well as another $265 million in borrowings under our multi-currency syndicated credit facility agreement.
This adds to a modest total capitalization ratio of approximately 18.5% at December 31 2013.
We're comfortable with our capital structure at this time and although we may choose to pay down some of our current debt under this syndicated credit facility during 2014 it's dependent on other investment opportunities that could arise.
Additionally since our last call we have renewed our $250 million term note previously due November 30 2013.
This new 10-year note extends to 2023 at a 2.996% interest rate.
This provides us more favorable terms and projected annual interest savings of approximately $4 million.
As we stated earlier we continue to generate solid cash flows and in 2013 our cash from operations was approximately $1.1 billion and free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends was approximately $600 million both representing new records for us.
Looking ahead we currently expect another strong year for cash flows in 2014 with cash from operations in the $900 million to $1 billion range.
And at this level of cash from operations we would expect free cash flow to be in the $500 million range for 2014.
We're pleased with the continued strength of our cash flows and we remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for the cash is the dividend which we've paid every year since going public in 1948 and we have now raised for 58 consecutive years effective with yesterday's board approval of a $2.30 per share annual dividend for 2014.
This represents a 7% increase from the $2.15 per share paid in the prior year and it's approximately 52% of our 2013 earnings per share which is well within our goal of 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our four businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditure was $40 million for the fourth quarter up from $30.4 million in the prior year.
Our full year capital spending totals $124.1 million which is an increase from the $102 million in the prior year.
We expect our capital expenditures to further increase in 2014 and to be in the range of $140 million to $160 million which accounts for a full year with GPC Asia Pacific as well as the anticipated expenditures for our North American businesses.
The vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in the technology area.
Our depreciation and amortization was $36 million in the quarter up from the $25 million in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
For the year depreciation and amortization is $134 million compared to $98 million for the same period in 2012.
The increase on this line reflects the impact of GPC Asia Pacific as well as amortization expense related to Asia Pacific and Quaker City.
We currently anticipate depreciation and amortization to be approximately $145 million to $155 million for the full year in 2014.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of cash for us and are integral to our growth plans for the company.
We continue to seek new acquisitions across our businesses to further enhance our prospects for future growth.
Since we last reported to you the company has closed on six acquisitions.
In the fourth quarter Motion added two industrial distribution companies to their operations and EIS added one acquisition which complements their fabrication capabilities.
The combined annual revenues for these three acquisitions are approximately $125 million.
Thus far in 2014 we've added another three acquisitions including one each in the industrial electrical and office businesses.
With the estimated revenues for these three acquisitions totaling approximately $235 million we are pleased to have added these companies to our operations and we expect them to be accretive to our earnings in 2014.
We will remain active in seeking new acquisitions for our businesses in 2014 generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally in 2013 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock under the company's share repurchase program.
And we have another 10.7 million shares authorized and available for repurchase today.
While we have no set pattern for these repurchases we would expect to be active in the program again in 2014 as we believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
So that is our financial update and in closing we want to thank all of our GPC associates for all that they do each and every day.
Through their hard work we were able to set new records in several areas in 2013 and we're planning for another successful year in 2014.
We look forward to updating you on our future progress when we report again.
That concludes the financial review and I'll now turn it over to Tom.
Thank you Carol and Paul for those updates and thanks also to each of you and your respective teams for the fine job that you continue to do for Genuine Parts Company.
So that concludes our comments on 2013 and in looking back it was an interesting year in many ways.
And as you've heard a year in which we had quite a contrast in results with automotive sales being up 18.5% and operating profit being up 19% but non-automotive sales being down 1% and operating profit down 9%.
Certainly we'll be looking for a stronger performance from the non-automotive operations in 2014 and a bit more consistency in our results.
But in looking back there were a number of significant achievements by the GPC team in 2013.
Sales net profit and earnings per share each reached record levels.
Cash from operations and free cash flow set new records as well.
We continued to see nice improvement in our working capital and working capital efficiency as well as in our return on average assets and return on invested capital.
And with the action taken yesterday by the GPC board dividends have been increased for the 58th consecutive year.
We're proud of the GPC team's achievements in each of these areas and we expect continued improvements in the year ahead.
As we turn our attention to 2014 although there's still a degree of uncertainty about the strength of the recovery for a few of our businesses we do think 2014 will be a solid year for GPC.
At this time we feel that reasonable revenue expectations for each of the segments would be for automotive to be up 5% to 7% industrial up 5% to 7% office products up 1% to 3% and electrical being up 25% to 30%.
For the total GPC that would give us an increase of 5% to 7%.
And with revenue growth at this level our guidance would be for earnings per share to be in the $4.47 to $4.57 range which will be up 2% to 4% on a reported basis before the onetime purchase accounting gain in 2013 but up 7% to 9% on a comparative basis.
And we would point out that our sales and EPS guidance accounts for approximately 1% anticipated headwind from currency.
Additionally it would be helpful to point out that our first quarter sales will be above the full year guidance primarily due to the inclusion of three months worth of sales from GPC Asia Pacific that were not in last year's results but the 5% to 7% full year range is a reasonable expectation.
We will look forward to updating these numbers as the year progresses.
And that will complete our prepared remarks and at this point we'd like to turn the call back over to Bridget for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Congratulations on your quarter.
Two sets of questions.
First of all obviously the weather is very topical for the automotive business and it's been a couple of years since we've had a cold winter.
Can you talk about the way this tends to play out over the course of the year? I know that the impact can have some duration to it.
And then I'll ask my second one as a follow-up.
All right Matt I'll try to answer that.
And I would say that obviously the extreme temperatures tend to drive incremental growth in certain product categories like batteries and rotating electrical I think as Paul referenced.
So we get a positive there.
Part of the offset to that in the automotive business is with the number of either our facilities that are closed or even our customers' places of business that are closed.
So while we consider it to be a net positive it's not as pronounced because of some of the loss of business due to the weather conditions.
As far as it plays out going forward historically when we have seen significant weather situations as we've experienced in January and February of this year we would tend to think that we will see some improved demands as we get into the warmer months for some of the front-end and chassis type products which will tend to get a bit damaged.
And then if we go a little deeper into the year if we were to have a very hot summer in parts of the country we would probably get the benefit from some increased demand on batteries or rotating electrical that will weaken but didn't fail in the winter months.
I might also add that the impact on the other GPC businesses the non-automotive businesses is a net negative because not only did we have a number of our facilities that had been closed but we also have quite a number of our customers' facilities that were closed.
So I hope that answers your question.
It does very thoroughly.
Thank you.
And then my second question relates to the fact that you've seen consolidation in office products in two of your businesses really.
In office products from -- involving one of your customers and then auto parts involving one of your competitors.
I know that these are topics that are on the mind I think of a lot of investors.
Any preliminary comments from you on what you've seen play out to date in those arenas and how you might expect them to play out to date as far as that consolidation impacts Genuine Parts? Well I'll try to answer that as well and we'd start on the office products side.
We did see two of the three megas come together as you know and they're in the midst of bringing their two fine companies under one management team.
It's much too early to have any feel for what the impact might be but I know our teams are working very very carefully and closely with the new entity and looking for whatever the opportunities might be that present themselves.
On the automotive side again it's very very early and perhaps a bit premature to offer any indication of what might happen.
But we do think that as those two companies come together we're confident they'll do a good job as they work their way through the combination and the integration.
But our past experiences have been that when you put two organizations together there's always a degree of spillage that happens despite the best of planning and the talent that is applied to the integration.
So our expectation would be that there may be a bit of spillage.
We don't know how much and if there is our folks are working hard to make sure that we're in a position to benefit from that.
Just as a final follow-up.
Have you seen any franchisees on the CARQUEST side begin to drift away at this stage or is it too early to say? I think it's too early to say on that.
And your next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Question is more on the industrial side.
As you go into the year it seems to have turned a little bit here to the positive.
I guess what are you hearing from customers? Is the first quarter weather going to impact them or is this one more about just kind of Industrial production we're going to see in 2014? I think Keith clearly those areas that had experienced significant weather situations that we've seen in January and February they're going to be impacted if their facilities were shut down and they weren't running their equipment and weren't producing product.
So we are going to see a bit of headwind from that.
In terms of what we're hearing from customers in a more general sense is still a degree of caution but a slight bit more optimism because of what we saw in the further strengthening of industrial production and capacity utilization and frankly as well as the ISM.
If you look at the fourth quarter for each of those indices the fourth quarter of the year was the strongest for all three.
So generally speaking people are encouraged a bit by that but they're also a bit cautious and trying to contain any optimism with a dose of reality.
Second question.
I think I heard in the prepared comments on SG&amp;A you're expecting SG&amp;A to be flat year-over-year.
Were you referring to as a percentage of sales or in dollars dollars including acquisitions? Any kind of detail there would be helpful? It would be on a percentage of sales.
What we've really found on the SG&amp;A line is it's primarily due to the loss of leverage with our non-automotive businesses.
So as we see that top line come back we should be able to see some improvement there.
But we talked about really it being more as a percent of sales.
But remember we still have one more quarter of comparability with the GPC Asia Pacific and their hundred percent-owned store model.
So a lot of the impact in SG&amp;A comparability is Asia Pacific but there is just a loss of leverage.
So use the percent of sales as a guide.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
I wanted to follow-up on couple of those prior questions.
On the industrial side can you talk about what the organic ex-acquisition growth was in the fourth quarter? And can you talk about what changed in the business because it improved beyond just easy compares.
So what was the light switch which businesses saw the most change at the margin in the fourth quarter? What we saw ex-acquisition in the quarter was modest growth.
Acquisition actually added about seven-tenths or just under 1% to the total the 3%.
And what changed I think you saw what's happened with the GDP at least the advanced indices and indication of a little bit more robust activity and then the same thing would be true on the industrial production capacity utilization and the PMI all showed a little stronger performance.
So all three of those had their strongest quarters of the year in the fourth quarter.
So I think we did see a little bit of uptick in activity in the quarter but we're hoping that that's sustainable as we work our way through the early part of this year.
And would you think that given sort of a negative weather impact in the first week of the quarter some of that organic growth can it hold up or does it maybe tick down just because of the weather impact? Well it's just a guesstimate on our part at this point.
We know that we lost business in January and again in February because of the weather in the Industrial segment and it's true across all of our non-automotive businesses.
How much of that we can recover through the remainder of the quarter we'll just have to wait and see.
But I would say that our expectation for the year is positive and we think that we have an opportunity to have a better year in the underlying business in industrial than what we had in 2013.
And then similarly as you think about the automotive business and the near-term impact of having major regions shut down such as your home area there do you think that the organic growth in the automotive let's say company-owned comps do you think that ticks down in the first quarter as well because of some of this weather noise? Yes Chris this Paul.
We could see a slight hit.
I will tell you that -- and you hit on it.
Our home turf down here in Georgia the southern up through the Atlantic last week we had stores shut down for one to two days.
So 60 to 75 stores for sure were closed down.
So yeah that could have an impact.
On the plus side certainly the cold weather the road conditions are going to drive business on the product side.
So where it all ends up hard to say.
We do believe though at the end of the day that we're happy to see the cold weather for sure we could do without the ice.
And then on the gross margin SG&amp;A you'll fully anniversary GPC Asia Pacific in the first quarter here.
That's going to provide some continued noise in the gross margin and SG&amp;A.
You mentioned gross margin up slightly for the year for the total company.
Will gross margins see improvement outside of the first quarter? Well I guess it'd be hard to say quarter-by-quarter.
What we're saying on gross margin and why we think it could be up for the year and we're giving it just a little bit above the 30% is we did have an impact of lower volume incentives in our non-automotive businesses more so in Industrial and a little bit in office.
And then also we had some of the onetime adjustments that were negative this year with the GPC Asia Pacific that we talked about in the second and third quarter.
So a combination of those two things we do feel like we should see a bit of improvement but haven't really put it down on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Sure.
And then one last question.
You mentioned auto margins up in 2014 any comments on the other divisions would be helpful.
Thanks very much.
Well I think on the other divisions again if we can see some of the top line growth coming back we may get some of those volume incentives back.
Not sure if we'd get all of them back and then certainly we'll be able to offset some of the loss of leverage that we've had.
So it's really dependent on getting some of the top line growth back.
We would hope to at least have more of a maintain perspective on those margins with some growth.
And your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Just wanted to follow-up on a couple of things.
The trend in North America just to make sure I got that right Paul in the first quarter so far it sounds like we're actually running a little bit less than we were in the fourth.
Is that true or wrong? That would be accurate Greg.
Okay.
But obviously all the other stuff could kick in later given your historical trends? Exactly.
The second part was on pricing.
Carol you gave the impacts on pricing.
What do you assume for 2014 in terms of inflation in each of the businesses in terms of your guidance? Do we think auto looks like maybe it's flattening a little bit.
Could we actually get some pricing power there again? Well we are on our second year of deflation in Automotive and really had -- we're seeing less than normal levels of inflation in all of our businesses for 2014.
We've talked to a couple of our business units and I would say it would be very little and it maybe another year like we've had this year but we're certainly not seeing much in the way of pricing.
We'd like to see it but we're just not anticipating it for 2014.
Okay.
Great.
And then lastly on pensions.
Was there anything with pension in the quarter? I know you called out last year's hit in the fourth quarter.
Was there anything this year and then in your guidance for this year do you expect any pension costs or benefits? So we did not have any -- our pension costs for 2014 were very similar with the exclusion of the 2012 onetime gain that we've talked about.
So there was really nothing unusual in the 2013 numbers.
I would tell you that our guidance for 2014 takes into account a lower pension expense given that we do have the freeze taking effect for 2014.
But what we've got offsetting that is some increased cost in our 401(k) as well as some increased healthcare cost with the Affordable Care Act.
So we have factored all of that into our guidance.
Okay.
So basically the lower pension expense offset by the other increased cost.
Do you care to quantify that just roughly? We don't at this time.
And your next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital.
My question on the APd inventory and what you've picked up so far in extended terms benefits.
If you looked at that automotive where it's sort of the tradition versus some of your other non-automotive businesses is there a big dispersion in your leverage of accounts payable? And I guess as we look at Exego in the Australian market is that something where it's a meaningful difference in extended terms adoption down there and is there a fair amount of running room you can pick up? Bret I'll try to answer that.
I think the majority of the progress that you see is attributable to the automotive segment and primarily the North American component.
We do think that there is some possible improvement yet with GPC Asia Pacific.
We have seen some progress and there's a bit more there.
And then we continue to think about the possibilities perhaps in the non-automotive businesses.
So I think there's upside yet.
I don't think we'd suggest the magnitude of the improvement that we've seen to this point but we do feel there's still some upside.
If you were to quantify it I guess is it something that you see this -- are we three quarters away there or are we halfway to what we can get from an APd inventory? I think we're closer to the former rather than the latter.
That's about as far as we would go.
Okay.
And then one last question.
I guess it's quite a comp for the fourth quarter and if you looked at it is it either a benefit of the geography of your stores or do you see some benefit from a market share gain standpoint in that comp? How do you feel you did at that 7% growth relative to your physical markets? Well I'll take a first stab at that and Paul may want to chime in.
But I would say that certainly the stores as Paul mentioned basically from the plains all the way to the Northeast saw some benefit from the weather.
Conversely the stores basically from Atlanta on up to Washington did not get any benefit from the weather and actually had a little bit of impediment.
But if we look at the results across the country we were pleased with the progress we made in all of the areas and I think it's more attributable to the strength of the initiatives.
Paul pointed out the strong results we had in the quarter with both major accounts in NAPA AutoCare.
And that was fairly consistent across the entire country and I think our teams are doing a good job continuing to develop those initiatives.
Brad I'd just also add to that as I commented we had a good quarter on the retail side but there's -- and Tom kind of hit on it there's certainly nothing magical.
Many of the initiatives that our team has been working very very hard on really started to take hold.
So basic blocking and tackling is what I would attribute it to.
And your next question comes from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Two things.
One your office EBIT margins even though they have struggled a little bit lately still about 8%.
I think they're higher than any other listed player by around 250 basis points.
I'm wondering if you could just remind us why they're so much different than the peers and why that's going to stay that way would be appreciated? I don't know that I could address that question categorically.
I would just say that in our case we always have been pretty efficient company in the way we operate and our team continues to do a good job in operating efficiently despite the headwinds that they faced on the revenue side.
As Carol mentioned earlier we continue to invest in all of our businesses and largely in technology initiatives either intended to give us better information to run the business or intended to help us be more efficient in handling the business.
And certainly that is true for office products as well as the other businesses.
And historically your operating margins of your segments have clustered pretty tight to one another.
If one of them were to deviate meaningfully from that bunch would that be kind of I don't know something you would take seriously and kind of think about more structural activity divestiture or anything like that? We look for an 8% and 8.5% operating margin for all of our businesses and for the company in total.
And that's really a long-term outlook.
So there's times that we'll be outside of that but I think on balance we're looking for the 8% to 8.5% for the whole company.
Okay.
Thanks.
And if I could just follow-up one more thing.
You mentioned in your remarks that technology has kind of benefitted you I think in your warehouse and some other areas.
Can you talk to us about both the advantages and maybe some of the risks that technology is bringing? Just wanted to get a little bit more detail on that topic if you don't mind? Well I think we'd rather not get into the specifics of the individual initiatives that we have underway.
I think we'd rather just leave it as I said earlier and that is that we're looking for ways that we can have better information to manage the business or ways that we can have better capabilities in handling the business.
And we continue to -- our team continues to work hard on this and they continue to find ways that we can move a bit further.
The only other thing I'd add to you is that we're not a company that will go out and look for a big bank type result.
So we're not about to embark upon some technology initiative that we think could be beneficial but also could have significant downside risk.
So we go at things incrementally and we test them rather thoroughly.
We prove the concept and then we move somewhat deliberately in how we roll them out in the respective businesses in order to avoid any significant downside risk.
And your next question comes from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush.
A couple of quick questions for you on the auto business.
Just I wanted to better understand if you had any major customers that you won in the quarter to help drive success in that business? Seth this is Paul.
No there was no major account activity that swung that number to the positive.
Again it was our team just really put in some of the initiatives that we'd been working on for many quarters now into place and all came together for a good quarter.
Got you.
And on the retail side of the business you guys had a very much improved comp this quarter versus Q3.
Was there anything besides the weather that drove that from your perspective? Well again Seth I'd just say that there is a number of initiatives that we've been working on testing in some markets.
And I would like to think that some of those initiatives are beginning to take hold.
Our team has been working very very hard to get our stores looking good to get our folks trained to sell at the retail level and it's good to finally see that coming together in Q4.
The real question is can we maintain that going forward which we certainly hope to.
Are you adding incremental services to the customers that walk through the door or is it just a matter of better selling processes? No I would lean towards the latter there Seth.
Just really working on our training and our sales techniques but no real again no real change in our approach at the store level.
Got you.
And then lastly on your store count.
How does that change year-over-year and what are your expectations for 2014? We came on the low end of our guidance which is to say that we'll grow our store count 1% to 2% per year and we were at the bottom end of that range for the year.
And going forward we'd offer the same guidance and that's 1% to 2% growth.
And we have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Brent Rakers with Wunderlich Securities.
This is actually Anjali Voria in for Brent this morning.
My first question is on the industrial side.
Could you talk about the difference in OEM and MRO growth differential? And have you now reach the anniversary of the underperformance in some of the oil and gas and mining segments? I'll take the second part of that question first.
We have not reached the final stage there yet but the headwind diminishes as we work our way through the early part of this year.
So we should get from a comparative standpoint we should get a little bit of benefit as we get into Q2 and on through the remainder of the year.
In terms of the demand patterns it was more MRO demand than it was on the original equipment demand.
Okay.
Was there any new business or maybe sales pushed out from Q3 into Q4 for the industrial segment or--? No no there wasn't.
Okay.
And I apologize if you've already addressed this but on the auto segment margin side were there any LIFO benefits or any other unusual benefits in that number? No there really wasn't.
I mean as I mentioned we had really deflation and it was only 10 basis -- it was 10 basis points.
And there really wasn't any impact in our automotive margins.
We were glad to hold those flat and there really wasn't any onetime adjustments in there.
Is it fair to say that the acquisition at Exego Australasia did that help by something like 30 or 40 basis points because of the seasonality on the margins side? No.
No no.
It was pretty consistent.
Their margins are consistent with our margins.
Okay.
But isn't this a seasonally stronger period for them or? Well they're into their summer months.
But if we look at margin contribution across the businesses it was fairly consistent with what we did in our automotive business.
Thank you.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.
We want to thank you for joining us and participating in our call.
And again we apologize for the technical difficulties that we had and especially if you had if you missed anything or you had to listen to it twice.
So we apologize for that.
So thank you for your interest and support of Genuine Parts Company and we'll talk to your after our first quarter release.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning my name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would like to turn the call over to Sid Jones Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts Company first quarter 2014 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We'll begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President and Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are both on the call as well and each of us has a prepared remarks and once completed we'll look forward to answering any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our first quarter 2014 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them but for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3.625 billion which was up 13%.
Net income was $157.5 million which was up 9% and earnings per share were $1.02 this year compared to $0.93 in the first quarter last year and the EPS increase was 10%.
We are pleased with our overall results in the first quarter and we feel that the GPC team is off to a solid start to 2014.
The combined 13.3% sales increase was our strongest performance in a few quarters and certainly acquisitions helped boost the overall results but we were pleased as well with our performance of the underlying businesses especially in light of the number weather related closures that we experienced across each of the businesses during the quarter and we are also pleased that our increase in sales on a per day basis improves sequentially in each of the businesses as we worked away through the quarter which is encouraging.
In looking at the sales results by segment our Electrical and Automotive operations had very strong quarters with Electrical being up 30% and Automotive up 23%.
Industrial was plus 4% and Office Products was down 0.5%.
Paul will cover the automotive details in a few minutes but first I will make a few comments about the non-automotive operations starting with Motion Industries our industrial distribution company.
You recall that this segment had a challenging year in 2013 ending the year down 0.5%.
We saw a bit of a pickup in the fourth quarter when we were up 3% and this was followed by their 4% increase in the first quarter so a bit encouraging.
Also encouraging is the fact that 9 of our top 10 customer segments are generating positive results for the first quarter with automotive and iron and steel categories leading the way along with customers and the lumber and wood products and coal aggregate and cement product categories growing nicely as well.
This latter two are important parts of our overall business and it's nice to see them showing solid growth perhaps indicative of improvement in the housing and construction sectors.
It's also interesting to note that after several quarters of decreases the original equipment manufacturing segment was up modestly in the quarter and hopefully a sign that demand from this important segment is starting to improve for us.
Our general sense is that demand in the overall industrial segment is firming up a bit.
Still a bit uneven across certain customer and product categories and then talking with our customers we still hear a bit of cautiousness but not as pronounced as it was six months ago.
And importantly two important leading demand indicators for us the industrial production and capacity utilization indexes continue to be at historically health levels.
As a result of all of these we continue to anticipate a respectable year from our industrial operations.
Moving on to EIS our electrical electronic company they had a terrific quarter with revenues increasing 30%.
Certainly recently completed acquisitions were a big part of their increase but we do see signs that the underlying conditions are improving somewhat.
As with Motion there is a bit of unevenness in the recovery but encouraging signs all the same.
This combined with the ongoing contributions that we will get from the recent acquisitions as well as the continuant firmness in the ISM Purchasing Managers Index a key demand indicator for us; all of this will enable us to look forward to strong double digit for EIS over the remainder of the year.
And finally a few comments on office products.
Although down slightly for the quarter we were a bit encouraged by a few of the trends that we saw develop in the first three months.
Our business with the independent office products resellers was down 1% on the quarter but this part of our business actually improved as the quarter progressed and was nicely positive in March and somewhat similar comments on the mega segment of our business.
This group was up mid-single digits in the quarter with March being the strongest month.
On the product side furniture was up mid-single digits while technology products core office supplies and cleaning and break (inaudible) were each down a bit but encouragingly all four product category showed nice positive growth in the month of March and it's been a while since we have seen all four of the major product category show positive results in the same month.
Certainly the biggest news for office products segment is the reason announcement that S.
P.
Richards has been named the first call wholesaler for the combined Office Depot OfficeMax business.
We are honored and we were proud to have been selected and this enhanced relationship will add over $100 million in annual volume to S.
P.
Richards starting on the second half of the year.
So an incremental $50 million or so over the second half and this will be a nice boost to the overall S.
P.
Richards sales results in 2014.
So that's a quick overview of the non-automotive businesses and at this point I will turn it over to Paul to go with the automotive segment.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our conference call.
I'm pleased to join you today and to have an opportunity to provide an update on the first quarter performance of our automotive business.
As was mentioned in our previous conference calls we now include in our automotive recap the results from GPC Asia-Pacific which was consolidated into our results on April 1 2013.
As Tom mentioned in his opening remarks our automotive business grew top line revenues by 23% in the first quarter.
To further explain our growth the numbers breakout as follows.
Acquisitions primarily GPC Asia-Pac contributed 17% of the 23% our core business grew 7% and currency had a negative impact of 1 plus percent.
I would like to take this opportunity to walk you through our North American numbers and provide an overview of our first quarter performance.
As we reflect on this past quarter's results it would be apparent the numbers are very similar to our fourth quarter performance.
A combination of colder weather solid industry fundamentals and a shift in the Easter holiday but most importantly improved execution in the field enabled us to report another good quarter.
All of these factors played a part in our team generating a 7% top line increase.
When evaluating our quarterly performance we are encouraged to see that all regions of the U.S.
are positively contributing to our sales growth.
As was the case in the fourth quarter the top performers in the first quarter were once again those that were most impacted by the colder winter temperatures.
Our division stretching from the plains across the Great Lakes to the Northeast continued to lead the way for the company.
In addition these colder temperatures provide a positive momentum for a number of our key product categories which I'll touch on later.
But as Tom commented in his opening the extreme weather we encountered during the month of January and even into February and some southern states as well as up and down the eastern seaboard forced numerous store and customer closures and had a negative impact on our business.
However we continue to believe the overall benefits to the parts business as a result of these extreme cold temps outweigh any of the negatives.
Now turning to our U.S.
company-owned store group.
Comparable same-store sales growth in the fourth quarter came in at plus 8%.
This strong performance follows a 7% same store sales growth in Q4.
Our sales growth in the first quarter was driven by a healthy 8% increase in our commercial and our wholesale business.
Diving deeper into our commercial results our non-fleet related business turned in another stronger quarter generating an 8% increase.
For the second consecutive quarter both our major account customers as well as our 15 000 plus NAPA AutoCare centers generated double-digit increases.
We are pleased with the progress our team continues to make in this all important segments of our commercial wholesale business.
We also can report an increase in both our average wholesale ticket value and our average number of tickets for the quarter and we are encouraged by both of these trends.
Wrapping up our discussion on the commercial segment we generated strong results in our fleet business generating 8% growth in the first quarter.
And these are the best results out of this segment of our business in a number of quarters.
Turning now to our retail business we can report this important segment outpaced our wholesale business in the quarter by posting a 9% overall increase.
It has been a number of years since we reported this significant of an increase from our retail business.
As we saw with our wholesale business both our average ticket value and our average number of tickets increased in the quarter.
We are pleased with our team's efforts in our stores and the energy behind our many retail initiatives.
Now let's take a look at a few of the product categories driving our growth.
Much like the fourth quarter our NAPA batteries and battery related accessories continued to pose strong results.
These categories grew mid-double-digits in the quarter.
Not surprisingly the cold winter temperatures throughout much of the country also drove double-digit increases in both our starter and our alternator business.
Other big growth categories for us in the quarter were our wiper and our chemical business as well as our chassis business.
Key product category such as brakes filters belts and hoses all mid-single-digits in the quarter.
As we head in the spring and with the arrival of warmer temperatures we expect to see sales in these core product categories ramp up.
So in summary we remain encouraged that both our North American and our Australasian automotive operations report another quarter of improved results.
We remained positive about the core fundamentals of the automotive aftermarket and the growth opportunities available to us in both the retail and the commercial sectors.
We have a new ad agency in place a new 18-year-old NASCAR driver named Chase Elliott who has posted back-to-back victories in recent weeks and a new retail customer loyalty program that is currently being piloted in a select number of operations.
To-date we are pleased with the results.
We plan to rollout additional locations later in the year.
Many of the key aftermarket industry metrics remained positive.
However we are seeing a couple of trends that we will continue to monitor.
Let us start first with the positive.
The average age of vehicles on the road remains an excess of 11 years and deferred maintenance remained at historically high numbers.
A couple of key metrics we will keep an eye on is the price of gasoline and miles driven.
Fuel prices have steadily increased over the past 30 days and have seen an increase of $0.05 in just the last two weeks.
And as for miles driven and after posting positive growth numbers of 2013 they have now trended down slightly for two consecutive months.
Harsh winter conditions could be impacting these results and we would hope to see these numbers normalizing as we head into the summer months.
So in closing we are pleased with our first quarter results and encouraged by the strong start of the year.
We are proud of our management team and know they remain committed to driving profitable growth throughout 2014.
While we have much work ahead of us we remain optimistic that the initiatives we have put in the play are having positive impacts on our results.
We like to personally thank all of our NAPA associates both in North America and GPC Asia-Pacific and Australia and New Zealand for their efforts in the first quarter.
So that completes our overview of the automotive business.
And at this time I'll hand the call over to Carol to get us started with the review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul.
We will get started with the review of our first quarter income statement and the segment information and then we will review a few key balance sheet items.
Tom will come back up and wrap it up and then we will open the call up to your questions.
Total revenues were $3.6 billion for the first quarter an increase of 13% from last year consisting of a 10% contribution from acquisitions 4% underlying growth and this was offset by 1% headwind from currency.
Gross profit for the first quarter was 29.9% of sales up 110 basis points from the 28.8% last year.
Primarily the increase reflects the favorable impact of higher gross margin in our alteration business which owns 100% of its stores.
Excluding the impact of GPC Asia-Pacific which we will annualize in the second quarter our underlying gross margin was down slightly from last year's first quarter and this was due mainly to customer and product mix shift across all of our businesses.
We will continue to seek opportunities for margin expansion.
And for the year we would expect gross margin to be in the 30% range.
As an additional point of interest we are seeing some slight inflation in our non-automotive businesses today and not seeing that in the automotive sector and we do not expect this change much over the balance of the year.
Our pricing year-to-date through the first quarter is flat for automotive 0.8% for industrial 0.7% for office product and 0.8% for electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A our total expenses were $841 million in the first quarter representing 23.2% of sales.
Our SG&amp;A expenses as a percent of sales were up 130 basis points for the quarter.
And much like the change in gross margin this primarily reflects the impact of higher SG&amp;A cost and GPC Asia-Pacific again due to their 100% store model.
Before GPC Asia-Pacific our expenses are slightly improved from last year as a percent of sale and primarily reflect the cost savings associated with the freeze of our pension plan that was effective January 1 2014.
Although these savings were partially offset by increases in other retirement related benefits the pension freeze will continue to favorably impact our overall retirement related cost in the periods ahead.
In addition we continue to focus on effectively managing the cost in every area of our business.
We're seeing progress in areas such as supply chain efficiency and labor productivity and we see room for further improvement in future period.
The first quarter savings from our cost initiatives were offset by increases in items such as healthcare and incentive-based expenditures.
And we remained challenged by the lack of leverage associated with only slight underlying sales growth in our non-automotive businesses.
That said in consideration of the GPC Asia-Pacific store model and ongoing savings associated with our cost initiatives and the expectation of the gradually improving sales environment in our non-automotive segments we expect total SG&amp;A to improve in the quarters ahead and to be approximately 23% of sales for the full year.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
Our automotive revenue for the first quarter was $1.9 billion and represents 52% of sales and up 23%.
The operating profit of $150 million is up 24% so the margin improved 10 basis point to 7.9% from 7.8% last year.
Our industrial sales were $1.14 billion in the first quarter which is 32% of total revenue and up 3.7% from 2013.
Our operating profit of $83 million is up 5.3% and the operating margin of 7.3% is up 10 basis points from the 7.2% in the prior year.
We are pleased to see this improvement in Motion and continued top-line growth in this business will help this further.
Our office products revenues were $418.1 million in the quarter or 11% of our total revenues and down just the 0.5%.
Our operating profit of $33.9 million is up 2.3% so their operating margin was up 20 basis points to 8.1% from the 7.9% last year.
The Electrical/Electronic Group had sales in the first quarter of $180.3 million which is 5% of total revenue and up 29.6%.
Their operating profit at $15.5 million is up 48.6% and their margin shared a strong jump to 8.6% from the 7.5% in 2013.
So our total operating profit was at 16% in the first quarter and our operating profit margin was up 20 basis points to 7.8.
We're encouraged by this improvement and especially pleased that each of our businesses contributed to the overall increase.
We are focused on consistently growing our margins in the periods ahead and expect to show 10 basis points to 20-basis point improvement for the full year.
We had net interest expense of $6.2 million in the first quarter which is up from last year due to the incremental interest income earned in the first quarter of 203 that was in associated with our large cash balance held for that period.
This cash was used to purchase GPC Asia-Pacific on April 1 2013.
And we expect interest expense over the next three quarters to be slightly favorable to the prior year and can be in the range of $22 million to $24 million for the full year.
Our total amortization expense was $8.9 million for the first quarter which is up from 2013 due primarily to the GPC Asia-Pacific acquisition as well the industrial electrical and office acquisitions that were completely more recently.
Currently we expect amortization expense to be in the $35 million to $37 million range for 2014.
The other line which reflects corporate expense was $23.6 million expense for the quarter which is up from the $14.3 million in the first quarter last year.
This increase reflects higher expenses for a variety of items including insurance and incentive related costs.
In addition we had a more favorable retirement plan valuation adjustment in the first quarter last year.
We expect this line to be in $75 million to $80 million expense range for 2014 which compares to $67 million in 2013 before the $33 million one-time gain on GPC Asia-Pacific acquisition that was reported in the second quarter of 2013.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.5% which compares to 35% last year.
The lower Australian tax on GPC Asia-Pacific's pretax earnings continues to benefit our overall rate which is typically lower in the first quarter relative to our full year rate.
Last year we had a more favorable retirement plan valuation adjustment which is non-taxable.
We continue to expect our full year tax rate to be in 36% to 36.5% range for 2014.
Net income for the quarter was $157.5 million and EPS was $1.02 compared to the $0.93 last year and up 10%.
Now let's move on to the balance sheet.
Our cash at March 31 was $103 million which is down from the approximate $842 million in March of 2013 and $197 million at year-end.
The decrease in cash related to the cash used in the first quarter of acquisition a pension contribution and share repurchases.
Additionally our cash position was especially high at this time last year as about half that balance related to the cash we held for the April 1 2013 acquisition of GPC Asia-Pacific.
With these items in mind we are comfortable with our current cash position at March 31.
Accounts receivable of $1.8 billion at March 31 increased 13% in the same period which is inline with our 13% sales increase for the quarter.
We remain focused on our goal of growing receivables at a rate less than revenue growth in the periods ahead and we're very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at quarter end was $3.0 billion which is up 1% from December 31 and up 16% from March 31 last year.
Before the impact of acquisition our inventory is down 1% from December 31 and up 1% from March of last year.
So our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory level.
We will remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move forward through the year.
Our accounts payable balance at March 31 was $2.3 billion which is up 30% from March of the prior year due to the positive impact of our extended payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors as well as the impact of acquisition.
Our continued improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital in days in payables is encouraging and we expect this trend to continue in the periods ahead.
Our working capital $1.9 billion at March 31 compares to $2.3 billion at March 31 2013.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a high priority for our company and our ongoing effort with these key accounts have resulted in solid improvement in our working capital position and cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at March 31 2014.
Our total debt at $900 million at March 31 represents approximately 21% of total capitalization.
It includes two $250 million term notes as well as another $400 million in borrowing under our multi-currency syndicated credit facility.
We're comfortable with our capital structure at this time although we may choose to pay down some of our current debt outstanding under the syndicated credit facility during 2014 depending on the investment opportunities that could arise.
In the first quarter our cash from operations was approximately $60 million and for the full year we would expect cash from operations to be in the $900 million to $1 billion range and we would expect free cash flow which deduct capital expenditures and dividends to be on the $500 million range.
We are pleased with the continued strength of our cash flows and remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for cash is the dividend which have paid every year since going public in 1948 and have now raised for 58 consecutive years which is a record continues to distinguish genuine parts from other companies.
Our annual dividend of $2.30 per share on 2014 represents a 7% increase from the $2.15 per share paid in 2013 and it's approximately 52% of our 2013 earnings per share which is well within our goal of the 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash included the ongoing reinvestment and each of our core businesses strategic acquisitions were appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment and capital expenditures was $18.4 million for the first quarter which is up from the $12.9 million in 2013.
We expect our capital expenditures to pick up over the balance of the year and look for CapEx spending to be on the range of $140 million to $150 million which compares to the $124 million last year.
As usual the vast majority of our investments look to be weighted towards productivity enhancing project primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization was $36.9 million for the quarter which is consistent with the fourth quarter but up from the $26 million in the first quarter of last year.
The increase on this line reflects the impact of Asia-Pacific as well as our more recent acquisitions and we would anticipate depreciation and amortization to be approximately $145 million to $155 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of catch for us and they are integral to the growth plan for the company.
Thus for on 2014 we have had three acquisitions including one each for industrial electrical and office businesses with estimated annual revenues totaling $235 million.
These businesses as well those acquired over the last several periods are performing well and in line with our expectations and we are encouraged by the growth opportunities we see for each of them.
We will continue to seek new acquisitions across all of our businesses to further enhance our prospect for future growth generally targeting those bolt on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally in the first quarter we used our cash to purchase approximately 300 000 shares of our common stock under the company's share repurchase program.
This follows 1.5 million shared purchased in 2013 and today we have another 10.4 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
While we have no set pattern for these repurchases we expect to remain active in the program over the balance of the year as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with our dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
So that is our financial update and in closing we want to also thank our GPC associates for all they do.
It's a team effort here and everyone's hard work is truly appreciated.
The company is well-positioned for continued growth and we look forward to updating on our future progress when we report again.
I will now turn it back over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Carolyn and Paul for your updates.
So that will wrap up our prepared comments and in summary we would say that we feel that we came to the quarter in pretty good shape and about where we had planned to be.
As we look out over the reminder of the year we continue to feel positive about our prospects in all four of our business segments.
In automotive we anniversaried the GPC Asia-Pacific acquisition as of the 1 April which will moderate our overall automotive group growth rates over the reminder of the year.
But we continue to feel good about the underlying fundamentals and the automotive aftermarket as Paul just covered and we feel good as well with results that we are seeing from our various initiatives.
The one unknown for us right now is the strength of the headwind that we will encounter over the reminder of the year due to currency exchange.
As mentioned earlier it was over 1% in the first quarter.
With all of that said however we feel that we should raise the bottom end of our full year automotive guidance plus 5% to plus 6% and for now leave the top end to plus 7%.
As mentioned during our comments we're a bit encouraged by some of the signs that we are seeing in both the industrial and electrical markets and we would reaffirm the previously provided full year revenue guidance of 5% to 7% for industrial and 25% to 30% for electrical.
And in office products now having the bit of clarity around the Office Depot business we need to raise the guidance from the previously provided plus 1 to plus 3 to plus 3 to plus 4.
Putting all this together will give us a full year increase of 68% which is up from our previously provided 5% to 7%.
On the earnings side our prior expectation was to be in the range of $4.47 to $4.57 and at this point we would say that a range of $4.49 to $4.59 is probably more appropriate.
Now although we don't provide quarterly guidance as a point of information there will be a bit of choppiness on the quarterly basis due to some of the one-time purchase accounting adjustments related to the GPC Asia-Pacific acquisition in Quarters 2 and 3 last year.
And as you are updating a model Sid will be available to talk with you on this.
But we are comfortable with the current annual guidance of $4.49 to $4.59 that we just provided and we will look forward to refining this a bit further as the year progresses.
With that said we would like to address your questions and we'll turn the call back over to Holly.
Holly? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question will come from the line of Scott Ciccarelli with RBC.
Paul went through I guess again as I get older here but Paul went through a couple of the different growth rates on the auto side.
Can you just re-summarize those quickly and number one.
Number two you guys had some nice improvement on the payment terms and the accounts payable to inventory.
Is that coming from across the different segment or is that more a leverage toward auto where obviously some of your competitors have very capable APied inventory ratios? Thanks.
I would say that on the accounts payable that's primarily coming from auto and that would be the majority of what we have seen recently and what we expect to see but I would also say all of our businesses have initiatives focused on it and it's something that all of our businesses are looking towards doing and have some improvement there.
But I would say the majority of the increase is certainly coming from automotive.
Got you.
Thank you.
And Scott specifically what were you looking for me to repeat on the automotive numbers.
Well I guess I think you had said both commercial and wholesale were up to 8% or is that -- That's correct yeah.
Commercial and wholesale were up 8%.
Our same store sales were up 8% and our retail business was up 9%.
I got it.
Okay.
And then so we were looking 7% because of the currency? Yes.
Where that's all organic? Yeah.
I got it.
Okay.
Yep that cleared up.
All right.
Thanks guys.
You are welcome.
Scott one of the thing I would just add is one of the things that we really find pleasing about the quarter in the automotive business is the consistency of the performance across all of the segments.
I think our team did a terrific job of touching all the bases in this quarter.
Got you.
Thanks Tom.
Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of Greg Melich ISI Group.
Hi thanks.
Paul you mentioned March has had a nice improvement over the weather disruption in January and February.
Could you help us give an idea of the magnitude and whether there was need to shift but impacted that and how April is looking to look more like March or more like the whole first quarter? I'll take that Greg and I will comment on all of the businesses.
Automotive showed consistency throughout the quarter; we saw some pickup in March.
And then if we look at the other three businesses one of the things that was a bit encouraging is that in each of those businesses we actually saw sequential improvement as the quarter progressed.
And those businesses were prone to be hurt by the impact of weather but March was a good month for us in all four other businesses.
And did April look more like March or like the first quarter? April looks more inline with March.
Great.
And then second could you give us some update on how the Australian business is doing organically? And if -- got lost a little bit in that seven number of it anything in terms of traffic and comp trends there? As you know we do not break out that business separately.
I think we would just believe that we continue to be very pleased with the job that that team is doing and we think that has got a very bright future.
And your next question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
My primary questions relates to auto supply and related two parter.
The first just relates to how much of the wholesale business associated with a Depot Max deal that you did not previously -- did you think you will capture and I am particularly asking with regard to geographic coverage and do you feel like you have the coverage to get all of their markets? And the second question is related to that.
As you think about the price that you may have paid to get that business is there any margin pressure you would expect on the legacy business as result of whatever it is you took in that bid? Thank you so much.
And I will try to answer that.
In terms of how much of the business will we capture we've been named first call as you know.
So that gives us the opportunity to fulfill all of their needs across the entire enterprise.
And how much will we get we are pretty optimistic that we are going to get a very high percentage of it.
We do have the geographic coverage to support it.
We have got the ability to handle all of that business and our intentions are to handle all of that business.
Great.
And then in terms of any pressures on the legacy business we would not anticipate that.
I think it may be important to point out that I don't believe that this was first and foremost a price decision on the part of Office Depot.
I think price certainly was an element.
But I think it is important to remember that we have had the Office Depot business for 20 years and part of the reason I suspect that we might have got the nod is that we have done I think a pretty commendable job of handling that business from day one.
So I think price is always a factor but the value add and the level of service and the level of support that you can provide is an important element as well and I think we faired reasonably well in that over the past 20 years.
And then a very brief follow-up.
We can handle this after the call if you like.
But to the extent that you spoke about purchase accounting dynamics for the second and third quarter last year would there be any adjustments to the current year's numbers or is it just simply a function of understanding the charges that you might have incurred a year ago? We are not anticipating any purchase accounting adjustments to speak out for 2014.
It was just a reminder that we did have the large one time adjustment in the second quarter and then we had a smaller adjustment in Q3.
So it's just a reminder about the choppiness due to the prior year numbers.
And your next question will come from the line of Aaron (inaudible) with Wolfe Research.
Hi.
This is actually Chris (inaudible) on for Aaron.
Hoping to get your thoughts on -- I was hoping to get your thoughts on increased vehicle complexity.
The trend appears to be solely hurting DIY and favor DIFM.
But wondering if the increase complexity tick with high grade (inaudible) and even the aluminum F-150 if there comes a point where like the smaller bay and the three bay garage as they are no longer able to handle the work and how should we think that this relates to NAPA? Well I would try to take it.
Paul may have something to add.
I would say one you are right that the vehicles are going to become more complex and they are going to require a higher level of training and sophistication to do the repair work in the years ahead.
On the NAPA side we have been anticipating this for several years now and we have got training programs for all of our commercial customers that if followed will enable them to do these repairs going forward.
The other thing to keep in mind is that the aftermarket is a very very large industry and you have got 251 million vehicles on the road today.
And this new technology that comes in it comes in on a gradual or evolutionary basis not a revolutionary basis.
So there is a multiyear opportunity for us to be prepared not only from the technical training point of view but also from the supply chain point of view to handle demands of the vehicle in the future.
So we actually see it is an opportunity.
To your point I do think that those on the repair side that for whatever reason are going to avail themselves of the training or aren't a position to buy some of the new diagnostic equipment and tools that will be needed they are going to be threatened.
But at the same time we think that good customers like our major account customers our NAPA AutoCare customers this is an opportunity for them to perhaps gather up some share as we evolve through the transition we are going to be going through.
Chris the only thing I would add to that is that the overall complexity of the vehicle apart today And your next question will come from the line of Chris Horvers JPMorgan.
So I wanted to try to parse out a little bit more on some of the March April commentary.
We talked about an Easter shift.
Is it possible to look at what average daily volume growth was like in the DIY in the commercial side of the order parts business to try to figure out what the underlying trend is? It is a hard number to come up with but it will be -- we would suggest it would be less than 0.5%.
I got you.
In terms of the impact.
I understand.
In that DIY number was just I mean through the roof is there any reason to think that first the Easter shift had more of an impact of that side of the business? And can you dig into some of the category performance in DIY where that acceleration was made.
As I think then DIY would say well wiper it's cold it's smelly as batteries as wipers and that really surge of demand in DIY should have already past that actually seems like it showed up later.
So can you just talk about the category that show the acceleration and how you think about the performance in DIY and commercial both took you and then as you get into the balance of the year? Yeah.
Chris this is Paul.
Just to -- let me take the retail piece first.
And I think I would start by telling you that overall our team is performing at a higher level executing at a higher level.
We have done a lot of work in our stores.
We reset our stores re-merchandized and extended hours better signage better associate care on the floor for our customers and dedicated care on the floor.
So I think all of that has a positive impact on our retail business.
And we really saw that trend throughout the past year.
You couple that with the harsh winter weather and that harsh winter weather that really drove we think some real emergency type repairs.
An emergency type repairs you got stuff breaking down right so you got batteries that need to be replaced wipers that need to be replaced wipers that need to be bought chemicals that need to be bought.
We saw positive growth in every one of those categories throughout the quarter.
So I would say really it's a combination.
I think one our execution is better and then I think the harsh winter weather grow folks into our stores to get some emergency repairs done quickly.
You would think in I mean Tom's comment that April looks more like March in auto you would think that people arent repairing changing their batteries out because it's warmer and the cars were starting.
So I guess it's the demand starting to spread to more of the repair and maintenance categories that aren't more emergency in nature? I think that's a fair assumption.
And my comment about April was not just for automotive.
That was also for other businesses as well.
Understood.
And then that's a good segue.
So on the industrial business it did it seem like the organic growth came in the little lighter than you were originally anticipating.
So did actually the weather end up having more of an impact on that business in the middle part of the quarter that you expected is what you have seen in March and April more in line with how you originally thinking about the year.
Well we did have an improved quarter organic growth wise.
We did have an improved quarter around for the addition of some acquisition volume as well but we did see some improvement organically and we also had the impact negative impact of the currency exchange in the quarter which was just over 1% in the industrial business.
To the second part of your question.
Our non-automotive business are hurt by the kind of whether that we experienced in the first quarter because its business closures and we don't experience increased demand because of cold temperatures.
We do get the benefit of increased demand on automotive offset by whatever number stores and customer locations that are closed but it was a headwind in the quarter the weather was and that's behind us now.
So we have got a degree of optimism for the reminder of the year.
Okay.
And then just the final one on the margins.
At what point an organic growth in the non-automotive businesses do you start to see vendor allowances picking the year to year and then similarly getting leverage on the SG&amp;A side? Thanks.
I will try to that and Carol can help but I would say that we need approaching mid-single digit growth in those businesses.
One of the offsets potentially to any volume instead a program is a fact that our team is doing a better job ever increasing better job on our inventory management.
So I think Carol covered the inventory numbers overall but we are doing a better job and each of the business is on a continuing basis.
So we run the businesses we don't use the balance sheet to prop up the income statement.
So if we can generate mid-single digit growth in any of these businesses and at the same time through better visibility and better technology hold inventories even that's what we are going to do; we are not going to push the inventories in order to try to qualify for any additional rebase that might be earned.
And I think just one of the things on the volume incentives there was not really an impact on the quarter.
Our volume incentives were basically flat compared to the prior quarter and we're modeling flat this year for 2014.
So I think there are some other things that should come into play with our gross margin initiatives that we should get the improvement from those areas rather than just the sheer volume incentive.
Your next question will come from the line of John Ruvolo Bank of America.
First question would be to you Carol.
If we think about the auto business if we think about the year-over-year incremental margins they have been in the low kind of 8% range over the past few quarters.
I guess the question is this a reasonable one way to think about or other additional levers now that can be pulled given an Exebel would be fully integrated and so forth? Well traditionally and we try not to base everything on this first quarter.
So first quarter tend to be a low margin business especially on the automotive side and we do have a better seasonality certainly with Asia-Pacific and what our first quarter is their winter if you will but we have the seasonality so on a full year basis we would point you more to looking at the full year margin numbers and so that's what we would expect to be on a full year.
And we also looking for a 10 to 20 basis point improvement on a full year basis.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe more of just a strategic question here thinking about the office products business and you guys currently have eight proprietary brands there which it would appear that there would be at least some degree of costs that's associated but supporting those trend.
Is there any business rational potentially should consolidating the brand and going to the market with maybe a more consolidated portfolio if you will? I don't think that's part of our thought process currently.
I think what we are comfortable with the way we are managing the product portfolio today.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
A couple of questions here.
With auto being at 8% how much do you think a piece of that came from market share gain and how much do you think may have come from what will be the advance General Parts conglomerate when that's all integrated? Yeah Brian this is Paul.
A couple of things.
One it's kind of difficult to tell at this point but I would tell you that as far as your question on the Advance CARQUEST acquisition though.
It's pretty early we are encouraged by the things that we are seeing happening in the fields but it's very early.
And I can tell you that for the first quarter there was really no material impact on our numbers in the first quarter as a result of those two businesses coming together.
Okay.
And just Motion Dynamics staying fairly stable so far.
Absolutely you are talking about in the marketplace Brian? Yeah.
Yeah so for everybody is -- it seems to be pretty rational out there.
We are certainly as Carol pointed out in her comments we are not getting any help from price increases but it's rational.
As this year progresses and let's say things begin to get any better do you foresee a mix shift back towards the best and better products Paul or is that just something that you think it's going to be a major part of the marketplace going forward? Well it's hard to tell.
Brian we do have a good better best offering of products for sure on the marketplace.
We promote all three we push all three we have seen bit more of a flight to value on recent years and I don't know that that's going to change to any effect going forward in '14.
All right.
Thank you.
On just one of your comments you said you guys made -- pay down some debt as the year goes on.
Given how cheap your borrowing or why would that be the best use of cash as you guys look at how to allocate capital? Right now what we were saying is we are at 900 right now and we may; it's really going to depend on what opportunities may present themselves between now and the end of the year and certainly that could come in the form of the acquisitions or share repurchases.
And honestly we have to look at how our cash is going to be and our cash flow coming in.
So it's really a balancing we made the level similar to last year.
We were saying we may take it down a bit from the $900 million that it is first quarter.
But we haven't rule out anything because it's really we are going to look at it as things present themselves between now and the end of the year.
And your next question will come from the line of Seth Basham Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
So I have a couple questions.
First if you could give us a better sense of what underlying gross margins were year-over-year for the auto business when you strip out a specific business? We do not break out the gross margins specifically to the segments.
But what we would say is that you took out the impact of Asia-Pacific for those quarter our core gross margins were down about 10 basis points and that was really reflected in all of our businesses.
And we said that was more of a customer and product mix and it is really representative of all of our businesses.
And we would hope -- we have got some things in place and we hope to see that come back a bit between now and the end of the year.
And we are kind of targeting at around 30% or just little bit better than that by the end of the year.
Okay.
So full year gross margin guidance hasn't changed versus the prior guidance right? No it hasn't.
Okay great.
And then in terms of the auto business again the gap between some of our strongest markets that you referenced the weather affected markets in the north and north-east versus the least strong market did that gap changed in this quarter relative to the last quarter? Well it get somewhat Seth and primarily because some of our divisions and groups down in the south were impacted by the weather in the negative fashion right.
So we had some customer closure and store closures which certainly the folks of north deal with the weather a lot better than we did down here in the south.
And does that imply that the northern markets actually accelerated in terms of trend in the fourth quarter or the first quarter versus the fourth? Well the north divisions continue to as they were in the fourth quarter Seth continue to be strong operators for us absolutely your assessment is correct.
Okay great.
And then can you remind us last year what your same store sales was the U.S.
NAPA Business adjusted for any selling day differences? Hold on.
Just give us a second.
Yeah.
Hold that up.
For the first quarter? Yeah.
5%.
No no.
That is not.
First quarter 2013 our same store sales were just up modestly basically flat.
It has On a same day basis? On a same day basis.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then lastly it relates to be office business the incremental $100 million of sales you guys expect from the OEP win should we expect that to come at similar margins to the segment average? No there will be it will be a little bit lower than the overall average.
The next question will come from the line of Keith Hughes SunTrust.
My question has been answered.
Thank you.
Thanks Keith.
And your next question will come from the line of Bret Jordan BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
A quick question I guess is as you look at the accounts payable to inventory and you are pushing towards 80% and I imagine mostly that is on the back of the automotive side where do you see that number getting to? Do you think you can get the motion and electrical suppliers to sort of drink the cool aid on extended terms or because most of it come from auto they might be hard to get it up from here? I don't think we plateau.
So I think you will see a bit of improvement from here.
As far as the first part of the question this concept is not spread throughout the other businesses.
So it's going to be more difficult and more time consuming to accomplish what we would like to accomplish in those businesses but I think we still have a little bit of headway yet in terms of bringing it up.
Would we think that your auto AP inventories in the 90s if your aggregate AP was in 79.
We haven't worked that number.
Okay.
And then I get the question go back to market share unlocked you say has changed in the first quarter but as you picked up distributors from the CARQUEST transaction.
We have had some positive results there it's little early in the process but there have been some movements yes.
Talk about how many or (inaudible) where you to drive that or No we wouldn't want to do that.
Okay.
And then one last question.
I will give you one last one.
As you talk about the strong categories I think you said the friction you were getting better into the second quarter.
Is chassis or any other categories staying strong out of what with the venture of real seasonal demand spike as people do post winter repairs? I understand with batteries are hitting a much of amount of peak in Q1 but are there other peaks in the business that are driving Q2? Yeah Bret you are right we saw certainly Q1 was big growth and batteries as we saw in Q4.
Our chassis has a good first quarter as well.
We are expecting that business to continue strong into Q2 you look at some of the potholes up in the northern part of the country I think there is going to be an opportunity for chassis for sure.
As we look at our core categories breaks and filters for example with people now as the weather warrants up people get the cars into the base that's the business that we are expecting to see a nice ramp up here in Q2 and Q3.
And your final question is a follow-up question from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Yes hey guys.
This is Mike Montani on for Greg.
Just wanted to follow-up on the full year guidance.
It seems like the revenues were increased by about $140 million but then EPS by only about $0.02 which seems to imply about $5 million of net EBIT.
Is there something that I am missing there it seems like interest is up a little bit and may be other amortization line items as well to offset? Could you just help me to understand the flow through there? We will have to get back you on that Mike.
We did not do in terms of the actual revenue and the EBIT.
One thing we did do is raise the bottom end of the automotive guidance so we brought that up in five to six.
But I think there were some other changes some other headwinds in there.
And honestly currency is playing in there a bit too.
So did not necessarily come about the way you did.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn this conference call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well we appreciate you attending our call today and we appreciate all the questions.
And if we can be of further assistance let us know.
Otherwise we look forward to reporting out after of second quarter numbers.
Thank you for your support.
And once again we'd like to thank you for dialing in for toady's Genuine Parts Company's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Holly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn todays conference over to Sid Jones Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts second quarter 2014 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The companys actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the companys latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid.
And I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President along with Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of todays call.
And once we have concluded our individual remarks we will look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our second quarter 2014 results and hopefully you have had an opportunity to review them but for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3.908 billion which was up 6% over the prior year.
Net income was $197.7 million which was down 9% on a reported basis but up 9% on a comparative basis which I will comment on in a moment.
Earnings per share were $1.28 this year compared to $1.39 last year and this represents an EPS decrease of 8% on a reported basis but up 9% on a comparative basis.
As a reminder last years net income and earnings per share numbers were favorably impacted by the one-time positive adjustments that are attributable to the purchase accounting treatments on our Australian acquisition that was completed in the second quarter of 2013.
Carol will cover this in more detail during her comments but in looking at the results from pure operating standpoint with sales up 6% and both net income and earnings per share up 9% on a comparative basis we feel that the GPC team operated pretty well in the quarter.
Looking at the sales results by segment our automotive operations were up 5% in the quarter.
Considering the fact that currency exchange had a negative impact of almost 2% which indicates an underlying growth rate of 7% we feel that this is reflective of the good sales job being done by the automotive team and Paul will cover more of the automotive details and highlights during his comments.
Our industrial operations also had a solid quarter posting a 7% increase.
Acquisitions contributed a little over 3% to the increase while currency exchange had a negative impact of just under 1%.
Netting all of this out means that our underlying industrial business was up a bit over 4% in the quarter which is right where we expected them to be and it continues a trend of gradual revenue improvement for our industrial operations over the past few quarters.
In looking at our sales results by customer category 9 of our top 10 customer segments were positive in the quarter and 7 of the 10 had increases of 5% or more which we feel shows good balance in the results and is a bit encouraging.
Automotive iron and steel coal aggregate and cement lumber and wood products were among our top performing sectors perhaps indicative of a gradually improving overall economy.
And at this point we are cautiously optimistic about the outlook for our industrial business over the second half of the year.
Our electrical segment had another strong quarter with sales up 32%.
Acquisitions completed over the past six months basically accounted for all of this increase and we are pleased with the contributions and progress being made in both the wire and cable and fabrication sides of the business.
We continue to struggle in the electrical/electronic side of the business however.
Sales into the original equipment manufacturing side of the electrical business have not recovered yet as they have for the industrial segment.
And sales for the electronics side of the business are being impacted by non-recurring sales to electronic contract manufacturers in 2013.
Fortunately our EIS team feels good about our continued progress in the second half for the wire and cable and fabrication businesses.
And based upon what they currently see they are anticipating a modest recovery for the electrical electronic business in the months ahead.
Turning to the office products segment we are pleased to report a 4% increase.
This is their best quarter in sometime and while the GCN acquisition that was completed earlier in the year accounted for about one half of the increase we were encouraged by the fact that both the independent reseller segment and the mega channel each had positive growth in the quarter.
While the mega results have been positive in five of the past six quarters this is the first time that the independent channel has shown positive growth over that same timeframe.
And we are hopeful that this is a turning point for this important segment of our office products business.
On the product side we had increases in the quarter in the cleaning and break room furniture and core office supplies categories and a modest decrease in the technology category.
And we are a bit encouraged by the fact that all four categories had second quarter results that were stronger when compared to the first quarter results so a bit of sequential improvement which hopefully we can sustain in the quarters ahead.
Before closing on office products we do want to mention that we completed the acquisition of Impact Products on July 1.
Impact is a distributor of safety and facility services products and they will add approximately $85 million in revenue on an annual basis.
Additionally the Impact acquisition complements the GCN acquisition mentioned earlier.
And it enables S.
P.
Richards to further diversify its product offering as well as its customer base which is an important part of our long-term strategy for the office products segment.
And we are pleased to have the Impact Products team now part of the GPC family.
So that will conclude our comments on the non-automotive businesses.
And I will ask Paul to cover the automotive segment.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our conference call.
I am pleased to join you today and have an opportunity to provide you an update on the second quarter performance of our automotive business.
Just as a reminder we mentioned in last quarters conference call that on April 1 we annualized our acquisition of GPC Asia-Pacific and you will see that reflected in our Q2 numbers and on a go forward basis.
As Tom mentioned in his opening remarks our automotive business grew top line revenues by 5% in the second quarter.
To further explain our growth our core automotive business grew 7% with a 2% offset due to currency exchange.
I would like to take this opportunity to walk you through our automotive numbers and provide you an overview of our second quarter performance.
As we look back on this past quarters results you will see  you will note our numbers are fairly consistent with both our fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014.
Our teams continue to execute well in the field and coupled with solid industry fundamentals enabled us to report another good quarter with underlying growth at plus 7%.
When evaluating our quarterly performance we are encouraged to see that all regions of the U.S.
are positively contributing to our sales growth.
As has been the case the past couple of quarters our divisions stretching from the Plains across the Great Lakes to the Northeast continue to lead the way for the company.
In the second quarter we also saw strong sales growth in both the Southern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the country.
An update on the automotive aftermarket wouldnt be complete without a weather update.
So after one of the coldest winters in a number of years patches of extreme weather conditions continue to impact our business along with our good customers.
The dry conditions in out West continue to plague the state of California as over one-third of the state is officially in a drought.
This has a direct impact on the dairy and agricultural businesses and ultimately our customer base.
On the opposite extreme the month of June was the wettest on record in the past 25 years.
But despite these headwinds along with the shift in the Easter holiday our team persevered and produced solid sales results across the U.S.
Now turning to our U.S.
company-owned store group comparable same store sales growth in the second quarter came in at plus 7%.
This 7% increase is on top of 5% same store sales growth in the second quarter of 2013 giving us a to two year stack of 12%.
In addition it continues a solid pattern of organic growth dating back to the fourth quarter of 13 when we generated a 7% same-store sales increase in the first quarter of 14 when we grew same-store sales 8%.
Our sales growth in Q2 was driven by healthy 7% increase in our commercial and wholesale business.
Diving deeper into our commercial results our two big wholesale initiatives Major Accounts and NAPA AutoCare once again delivered double-digit increases in the quarter.
This marks four consecutive quarters of double-digit growth in the Major Account business.
And turning to our 15 000 plus NAPA AutoCare centers this group posted double-digit growth for the third straight quarter.
Overall we are pleased with the progress our team continues to make in both of these segments of our business.
Its also worth noting we posted strong results in our fleet business generating 6% growth in the second quarter.
We are encouraged by these results as our team has now generated solid fleet numbers in back-to-back quarters.
We can also report improving trends in our average wholesale ticket value with little or no inflation support and our average number of tickets increased in the quarter as well.
Turning now to our retail business this segment of our business grew 7% in the second quarter.
We continue to be encouraged with our growth in our retail business.
And if you recall we increased this segment 9% in the first quarter.
As we saw with our wholesale business both our average ticket value and our average number of tickets increased in the quarter.
Our team has been working hard to drive our retail business and its great to see the improved results these past few quarters.
Lets take a look at the product categories driving our growth.
Our heavy duty business continues to post strong results as this group generated double-digit growth in the quarter.
We also saw high single-digit growth from core product category like brakes chassis and our filter business.
We would also mention that we continue to see good momentum in our electrical business driven by strong battery sales.
Id like to give a special plug to our electrical team as once again we are promoting in the month of July our battery starter and alternator products with a portion of the proceeds being contributed to the Intrepid Fallen Hero Fund.
Supporting our returning military veterans is something our NAPA team believes in very strongly and we are proud to announce that once again this year we will raise in excess of $1 million for this very worthy cause.
So in summary we remain encouraged as our automotive operations report another quarter of strong results.
We remain positive about the core fundamentals of the automotive aftermarket and the growth opportunities available to us in both the retail and commercial sectors.
The industry fundamentals have not really changed quarter-over-quarter.
The average age of vehicles on the road remains in excess of 11 years and deferred maintenance remains at historically high numbers.
A couple of key metrics we continue to monitor closely are the price of gasoline and miles driven.
While earlier in the quarter we saw a spike in fuel prices we have now leveled off and are essentially flat year-over-year.
And in the all-important miles driven category after posting negative numbers earlier in the year we saw positive growth in both March and April.
So in closing we are pleased with our second quarter results as well as the first half of 2014.
We are proud of our management team and know they remain committed to driving profitable growth throughout 2014.
And while we have much work ahead of us including tougher comps in the second half of the year we remain optimistic that the initiatives our team is focused on will continue to drive strong results.
We would like to personally thank all of our associates both at NAPA North America and at GPC Asia-Pacific and Australia and New Zealand for their efforts in the second quarter.
So that completes our overview of the automotive business.
And at this time I will hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul.
We will begin with the review of our second quarter and six month income statements and the segment information and we will also review a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back to wrap it up and then we will open the call up to your questions.
Our total revenues were record $3.9 billion for the second quarter an increase of 6% from last year including the 5% underlying sales growth and a 2.5% contribution from acquisitions and this was offset by the current headwind of slightly more than 1%.
If we turn to our gross profit and SG&amp;A we want to remind everyone as the prior year one-time items that are impacting our comparisons.
In the second quarter 2013 we reported a favorable purchase accounting adjustment associated with the April 1 2013 acquisition of the remaining 70% interest in GPC Asia-Pacific.
To that end we are required to revalue the companys initial 30% investment and this re-measurement met a certain one-time purchase accounting cost amounted to a free tax income adjustment of approximately $36 million.
And when combined with a lower tax rate this favorably impacted our earnings per share by $0.22 in the second quarter of 2013.
In accounting for the pre-tax adjustment approximately $18 million was recorded in cost of goods sold and a $54 million gain net of expenses was recorded to selling administrative and other expenses on our income statement.
Additionally the $36 million net adjustment is included in the other net line in the segment information provided in todays press release.
Any references we may make through our comparable results are intended to exclude the prior year impact of these one-time items.
With all that said our gross profit for the second quarter was 30.2% compared to 30.1% last year.
For the six months our gross margin of 30.1% compares to 29.5% reported last year.
On a comparative basis our second quarter gross margin is down 40 basis points from an adjusted 30.6 basis points in 2013.
This is due mainly to customer and product mix shift across our businesses but primarily in the automotive and office segments.
We thought it would be good to add as well that the gross margin differential at GPC Asia-Pacific is no longer relevant in our quarterly comparisons as we have anniversaried that acquisition on April 1 as Paul mentioned earlier.
Turning to the periods ahead we certainly see room for improvement and we remain focused on seeking those opportunities to expand our margins over the longer term.
For the balance of 2014 however we continue to expect our margins to be in the 30% range.
As an additional point of interest we are seeing some slight inflation in our non-automotive businesses to-date but we continue to see very little inflation in the automotive sector.
And we dont expect this to change much over the balance of the year.
Our 2014 year-to-date pricing is 0.1% for automotive 1.0% for industrial 1.1% for office products and 0.4% for electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A our total expenses were $869 million in the second quarter which is 22.2% of sales compared to 21.5% reported last year.
For the six months our total SG&amp;A expenses were $1.7 billion which is 22.7% of sales compared to 21.7% for the same period in 2013.
On a comparative basis our second quarter SG&amp;A expenses have improved as a percentage of sales decreasing 80 basis points to 22.2% of sales from the 23.0% in the second quarter last year.
This improvement primarily reflects the expense leverage gained on our sales volume for the quarter as well as cost savings associated with the freeze of our pension plan that was effective January 1.
We expect the pension freeze to continue to favorably impact the overall retirement related cost in the periods ahead and we continue to remain focused on effectively managing the cost in every area of our business.
Through these initiatives we expect to show continued progress on our SG&amp;A line in the periods ahead.
And now lets discuss the results by segment.
Our automotive revenue for the second quarter was $2.1 billion and represents 54% of total sales and is up 5%.
Our operating profit of $207 million is up 11%.
So their margin improved nicely up 50 basis points to 9.8% from 9.3% last year.
For the six months our automotive sales of $4 billion also represent 53% of our total sales and is up 13%.
Our operating profit of $357 million is up 16% and our margin is up 30 basis points to 8.9%.
Our industrial sales were $1.2 billion in the second quarter which is 31% of our revenues and up 7%.
Operating profit of $94 million is up 7% and our operating margin of 7.9% is unchanged from the prior year.
Our year-to-date industrial sales of $2.35 billion represent 31% of our revenues and are up 5%.
Our operating profit of $178.5 million is up 6% and our margin of 7.6% is up 10 basis points from last year.
Our office products revenues of $419 million in the quarter or 10% of our total revenues are up 4%.
Our operating profit of $31 million is up 5% so their margin was unchanged at 7.4%.
For the six months our office revenues are $837 million representing 11% of the total and is up by 2%.
Our operating profit of $65 million is up 3% and our margin is up 10 basis points from last year to 7.8%.
The electrical/electronic group had sales in the quarter of $188 million which is 5% of our revenue and up 31.5%.
Our operating profit of $16.5 million is up 35% and their margin is 8.8% which is up 30 basis points from the 8.5% last year.
Year-to-date our sales for this group were $368 million which is 5% of our revenues and up 31%.
Our operating profit of $32 million is up 41%.
So our margin is up significantly to $8.7 million from the $8.0 million which is an increase of 70 basis points.
So our total operating profit was up 10% in the second quarter and our operating profit margin increased 30 basis points to $8.9 billion.
This follows a 20 basis point margin improvement in the first quarter.
And for the six months our total operating margin is 8.4% which is up 20 basis points from 2013.
Especially encouraging is our overall growth is supported by year-to-date margin expansion in each of our four businesses.
So we are very pleased to report this level of progress and we remain focused on continued margin expansion in the periods ahead.
We had net interest expense of $6.2 million in the second quarter which is down from the $7.9 million last year.
For the six months interest expense is $12.4 million and we expect this cost to remain relatively steady over the balance of 2014.
We currently estimate $24 million in net interest expense for the full year.
Our total amortization expense of $8.5 million for the second quarter and its $17.4 million for the six months.
Our year-to-date amortization is up from last year due to the acquisition activity across our four segments.
We expect amortization expense to be in the $35 million to $37 million range for the year.
The other line which reflects corporate expense was a $25 million expense for the second quarter.
This is an increase from last year but relatively consistent with the first quarter of 2014 corporate expense.
In the second quarter last year this line was a $14 million income item which reflects the $36 million positive purchase accounting adjustment that we covered earlier.
For the six months this line shows an expense of $48 million which is up from $36 million last year excluding the accounting adjustment.
This increase reflects higher expenses for a variety of items including legal and professional insurance and incentive-related costs.
Currently we expect this line to be in the $80 million to $90 million range for 2014.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.25% compared to 31.3% last year.
For the six months our 35.9% rate compares to 32.8% for the same period last year.
The increase in our tax rates for both the second quarter and the six months relates primarily to last years favorable tax rate on the gain that was generated by the re-measurement of our Asia-Pac investment.
Looking ahead we expect our full year tax rate to be in the 36.0% to 36.3% range for 2014.
As Tom mentioned net income for the quarter was $198 million and EPS was $1.28 and on a comparative basis both our net income and EPS increased by 9% from the second quarter in 2013.
For the six months our net income of $355 million is up 9% on a comparative basis and our EPS of $2.30 is up 10% on a comparative basis.
So now we will discuss a few key balance sheet items.
Our cash at June 30 was $153 million which is down from $197 million in June 2013 and also at December 31.
We continue to use our cash to support the growth initiatives in each of our businesses and we remain comfortable with our cash position at June 30.
Our accounts receivable of $1.9 billion at June 30 increased 8.5% from the same period in 2013 which is slightly higher than our 6% sales increase for the quarter.
We remained focused on our goal of growing receivables at a rate less than the revenue growth.
And we see room for improvement in this area in the periods ahead.
We are also very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Inventory at quarter end was $3.0 billion which is up approximately 1% from December 31 and up 7% from June 30 of last year.
Before the impact of acquisitions our inventory is basically unchanged from December 31 and up only 4% from last June.
So our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels.
We will remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move forward through the year.
Our accounts payable balance at June 30 was $2.5 billion up 21% from June 2013 due to the positive impact of extended payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors as well as the impact of acquisitions.
Our continued improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital and days in payables is encouraging and we expect this favorable trend to continue in the periods ahead.
Our working capital of $2.0 billion at June 30 compares to $1.8 billion at June 30 2013.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a very high priority for our company.
And our ongoing efforts with these key accounts have resulted in solid improvement in our working capital position and our cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at June 30 2014.
Our total debt of $806 million at June 30 is down from the $900 million at June 30 last year and represents approximately 19% of total capitalization.
Our June 30 debt includes two $250 million term notes as well as another $306 million in borrowings under our multi-currency syndicated credit facility.
We are comfortable with our capital structure at this time although we may choose to pay down some of our debt outstanding under the credit facility during the year depending on the investment opportunities that could arise.
Thus far in 2014 our cash from operations is approximately $367 million and for the full year we currently expect cash from operations to be approximately $950 million.
We expect free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends to be in the $450 million range.
We are pleased with the continued strength of our cash flow and we remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for cash is the dividend which we have paid every year since going public in 1948 and have now raised for 58 consecutive years a record continues to distinguish Genuine Parts from other companies.
Our annual dividend of $2.30 per share for 2014 represents a 7% increase from the $2.15 per share paid in 2013 and its approximately 52% of our 2013 earnings per share which is well within our goal of 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our core businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment and capital expenditures was $21.5 million for the second quarter and is $39.9 million for the six months.
Although these expenditures are down from the second quarter and the six months in 2013 we currently expect our capital expenditures to pick up over the balance of the year.
We currently look for CapEx spending to be in the range of $130 million to $140 million which compares to the $124 million last year.
As usual the vast majority of our investments will be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Our depreciation and amortization was $37 million in the second quarter which is consistent with the prior year and at $74 million for the six months which is up from the $63 million in the prior year.
This six month increase on this line reflects the impact of GPC Asia-Pacific as well as our more recent acquisitions and we currently expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $145 million to $155 million for the full year.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of cash for us and they are integral to the growth plans for the company.
For the second quarter we have added four acquisitions including one in each of our four business segments and with estimated annual revenues totaling approximately $255 million.
And as Tom mentioned earlier we added our fifth acquisition for the year on July 1 with the addition of Impact Products to the office products group.
We are encouraged by the growth opportunities we see for each of these acquisitions and will continue to seek new acquisitions across our businesses to further enhance our prospects for future growth and generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally thus far in 2014 we have used our cash to purchase approximately 635 000 shares of our common stock under the companys share repurchase program.
Today we have another 10 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
And while we have no set pattern for these repurchases we expect to remain active in the program over the balance of the year.
We continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
So thats our financial update.
And in closing we want to thank all of our GPC associates for all that they do.
Its a team effort here and everyones hard work is truly appreciated.
The company is well-positioned for continued growth over the balance of the year and beyond and we look forward to updating you on our future progress when we report again.
I will now turn it back over to Tom.
Thank you Paul and Carol.
So thats a recap of our second quarter and first half results.
And as we look back over the past two quarters we feel that our folks have made good progress in a number of key areas.
Our sales and earnings on a comparative basis at the mid-year point are at record levels and all four of our business segments are showing year-to-date operating margin improvements.
On the balance sheet side accounts receivable and inventory have been managed well and accounts payable continues to trend in the right direction.
Cash from operations is solid and working capital efficiency has shown nice improvement.
From an individual business perspective as we look back over the first six months of the year we are encouraged by the steady and consistent performance in our automotive business on a comparative basis and we are encouraged as well by the sequential improvements in our non-automotive businesses.
At the same time we are a bit unclear as to where we are in the economic cycle.
While most of the external indicators and indices are generally favorable for all of our businesses we still hear and sense a degree of uncertainty and caution among many of our customer base and the strength of the economic recovery is a bit weaker than many had predicted.
Additionally we still have the variability of currency exchange which as we said earlier impacted us by over 1% both on the revenue and earnings side in the quarter and first half of the year.
With all of that said however based upon our performance year-to-date and the solid initiatives that are underway across each of our businesses we feel that a few modest upward adjustments in our revenue guidance are appropriate.
At this point we would leave industrial and electrical the same.
Our prior guidance was plus 5 to plus 7 for industrial which we would leave the same.
Electrical was 25 to 30 and well leave that the same.
But in the automotive segment we think we need to increase the prior guidance of plus 6 to plus 7 to current guidance of plus 7 to plus 8.
In office products our prior guidance was plus 3 to plus 4.
And at this point we would raise it to plus 6 to plus 7.
And this increase for office products includes the contribution from the Impact Products acquisition in the second half of the year as well as the increased business that we will be getting from the new Office Depot agreement.
The net result of all of this is that we would increase our overall GPC guidance from a prior 6% to 8% increase to a current 7% to 8% increase.
And on the earning side we feel that an upward adjustment is also appropriate.
Our prior guidance called for earnings per share of being in the $4.49 to $4.59 range and at this point we would raise that to $4.54 to $4.60 which would give us an EPS increase of 3% to 5% on a reported basis and 8% to 10% on a comparative basis.
So that will conclude our prepared comments.
And at this point we will turn the call back to Holly to take your questions.
Holly? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question will come from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning.
This is Chandni Luthra on behalf of Matt Fassler.
How are you? We are fine.
We hope you are.
Good morning.
Hi thank you.
We just had a quick couple of questions.
We wanted to check if there is any impact for you winning the consolidated Office Depot of snacks business now that particularly as the business shifts to you as the acquisition seasons? Well what we have said in our prior call was that on an annualized basis this will yield about $100 million in annual revenue.
The revenue is starting to shift currently.
We have said prior that it would start to kick in on July 1 and it is in fact starting to flow through currently.
And then there was a question in the prior call as to whether or not this would impact our gross margins and we said that it would have some impact on the gross but we will get some leverage off of the increased volume as well.
Alright.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And my second question relates to your industrial margins we wanted to basically understand is there potential for stronger recovery on industrial margins particularly now that you are starting to see some revenue growth and as this growth continues to persist into the year? If in fact the growth continues in the high-single digit levels yes we would think that there might be some opportunity for margin expansion.
Alright.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
Alright.
Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line at Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning Chris.
A couple of questions on the updated guidance so the increase in auto and office is that mainly and each one of those reflecting the year-to-date and then in the case of the office now you have this acquisition or are you inherently raising your outlook for the back half as well? Well I think its a combination.
The first part of your comment I think is accurate.
We have seen  we will see the impact in office products of the Impact Products acquisition as well as increased Office Depot business which will have a positive impact.
In the case of automotive we have seen some  we think pretty good performance from the automotive team.
We think the external factors are generally positive and our expectation is that based upon where we ended the first half of the year that something in that 7% to 8% range is a reasonable expectation for us on the automotive side.
I would just add one other thing Chris.
We were a little bit encouraged by a couple of things in office products.
It may be too early to tell if its a trend.
But I mentioned in my comments that we did see sequential improvement in all four of the major product categories.
And then we also saw improved performance coming from our independent resellers which our team has been working on for quite some time and hopefully thats the beginning of what maybe some sustainable positive growth coming from that important part of our business.
Okay.
So then just to clarify it sounds like auto is sort of what we are seeing year-to-date passing out through to the revenue outlook for the year or whereas in the office there is the acquisition and some encouraging signs thats taken your confidence up as to actual back half outlook? I think thats accurate.
Okay.
I know your last year you mentioned June being a pretty wet month out there are you normally hoping for very hot weather so cars are breaking down or was that actually a drag to the auto performance in June? Yes.
Chris this is Paul certainly a bit of a drag.
What we had hoped for coming off that brutal winter we had in many parts of the country was to move right into the hot summer.
And we have not seen that in most parts of the country and certainly June being as wet as it was we did not see the kind of lift that we normally would have with some hotter temperatures across the country.
But is  I guess is your  does that suggest that or how do you think that plays out than as you look out over this summer and then to the balance of the year I mean the lag impact from the weather is your outlook anymore positive or negative as a result of Junes outcomes? I dont think our attitude is anymore negative.
If we get a hot stretch we get two weeks of unusually warm weather yet in July or in August we think that we will see some positive impact from that but even absent that I think that the performance that Paul had outlined both on the retail side and on the commercial side Major Accounts NAPA AutoCare I think those results are really what give us a little more confidence in partly why we have raised our guidance.
Understood very clear.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you Chris.
And your next question will come from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Hi good morning Tom.
Hi Carol.
Hi Paul how are you? Good morning Brian.
Good Brian.
A question on just within auto youve got a lot of changing dynamics regarding the competitive landscape what are you seeing as far as maybe your ability to either gain some share this quarter or do you think that that you are performing in line with your peers? Well Brian this is Paul.
We are the first ones out.
So we will hear our peer group here in the weeks ahead but we are pleased with our quarter.
Its consistent with our first quarter and its consistent with the fourth quarter of last year.
And we are very pleased with the cadence of the quarter April was strong May was strong June as was referenced earlier was a bit softer but the comps get tougher in the second half.
And I think I referenced that in my comments.
But we are pleased with where we find ourselves and with the initiatives that the guys are all working on it.
Any opportunities to  have you taken in any prior Carquest distributors into the NAPA family? We have taken some Brian and hopefully we will take some more as time goes on.
What do you think has been the biggest differentiator for you in having those crossovers take place? But I think those that have made the change have benefited from the comprehensiveness of the NAPA program.
And I think they have been surprised by the strength of the NAPA program.
And I think they are pretty outspoken in terms of what is done for them and their business.
So hopefully there will be a few more that will make their way to the NAPA system in the months ahead.
And the other three businesses if I am looking at the last eight months or so you guys have obviously been very acquisitive what does that pipeline look like now for potential deals and just do you think you have another good 12-month 24-month runway where you can be this acquisitive? Well in the acquisition side of it you never know what the timing is going to be.
And you have always got to have a number of discussions going on at any given time.
So I think the best way I could answer that is to say that we have multiple discussions that are occurring but we will have to wait and see how many of them actually develop and come to fruition but we are pleased with where we find ourselves in terms of the discussions and we are certainly proud of the team for what they have been able to get done over the past year or so.
If you were to find something that would be the size of an Exego either in any of your four groups would that side scare you at this point or would you be open to it? No I dont think we would be intimidated by the size.
It really is a function of how accretive it could be to the shareholders at Genuine Parts Company.
And if we can find any business that we acquire needs to be accretive to GPC.
We dont knowingly do any acquisitions that are dilutive.
So the size is not the most critical factor.
Its what we think the performance will be post-acquisition.
Alright.
And just last one from me.
Carol I think I heard you say that you may look to pay down some debt with cash flow as the year progresses if you are paying 3% on your debt and you get a 2.6% current return on given the dividend why wouldnt share repurchase more aggressive share repurchase be the right use of capital there? Well Brian we are not committing to anything.
What we are doing is trying to keep some flexibility as we look at our balance sheet and our capital structure so and keeping that flexibility be it incremental share repurchases or an acquisition opportunity.
So we are just trying to balance.
We havent totally committed on what we are going to do on the debt.
We are just going to look to balance what our cash needs are and what makes the most sense for the shareholder.
Alright thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you Brian.
And your next question will come from the line of Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Good morning Bret.
Good morning Bret.
Couple of quick questions and in your prepared remarks you had mentioned some gross margin pressure in the automotive from customer and product mix could you give us a little bit more color is that just a migration to national accounts or is there anything changing on the promotional environment on the products side? I guess I will give a couple of comments and then Paul might comment as well.
One of the things we are talking about is the product and customer mix across all of our businesses but primarily not with automotive and office.
So as Paul mentioned the key wholesale programs that we have and talking about some of those with the double-digit growth and those would be generally at a lower gross margin and then on the product mix we called out a couple of product categories that do come in at a little bit lower gross margin.
But I would point out that we continue to have programs in gross margin all of our businesses have key things going on on the buy side and sales side to hopefully get those margins back up or at least flat.
But the really nice thing is we have been able to do on the SG&amp;A side so what you are getting is we saw that volume going through is we are able to leverage more on the expenses.
So the teams and primarily auto have a done a terrific job on the SG&amp;A line for us.
And Bert to the second part of your question there hasnt been any fundamental change in promotional activity.
Okay great.
And then as we look at the comp and we have got Exego in the mix for the full year now Well.
We dont breakout the Australian numbers but we can tell you that they are performing in line with our expectations and they are performing in line with our overall automotive business.
Okay.
And then one last question on the accounts payable its a pretty good number there.
If we look at the business lines separately and clearly the auto vendors are more used to being asked for extended payables.
I guess how much room is left if your  is auto getting close to 100% APed inventory and the other  other segments need to raise theirs or is there still room to extend payables on the automotive vendor side? I think we still have some room we have ahead of us on the automotive.
And you are right in your comment that this is much more prevalent than the automotive business than it is in the other businesses that we are in.
But I think there is still some opportunity for us in the non-automotive businesses.
So I think in the quarters ahead you will continue to see some nice improvement.
And with Exegos payables been well levered as well or is there still would there be more room within the Exego? Well I think we will just leave that there is still room in the automotive side of the business and we feel good about our prospects honestly.
Okay.
Thanks.
Is there a target for APed inventories you have out there sort of on a two or three year basis company side? We dont have a stated target I guess what we look at is our working capital and we have  we make sure that we have plans in place for all the categories for improvement each year so no specific target.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Nice Brett.
Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush.
Good morning.
Good morning Seth.
Good morning Seth.
The first question I have to you goes on some small cost items for clarification it seems like you have bumped up the cost expectations for the other line as well as D&amp;A can you just give us some more color as to the drivers there? Well I think as we called out on the other lines what we are seeing is some of the legal and professional insurance and some of our incentives related costs.
So that would primarily be whats driving that line and some of it is in the technology area we mentioned some of our technology improvements.
So thats primarily whats driving that line.
And then the other depreciation and amortization was that your other one? Yes.
Yes the depreciation and amortization thats the combination of a function of the additional acquisitions and the amortization that flowed in.
And then the incremental depreciation if we look what our increase in CapEx is going to be on the full year.
Got it.
Okay.
Despite those bumps up obviously you guys had great SG&amp;A leverage you are expecting SG&amp;A leverage going forward was there anything different about this quarter relative to last in terms of the cost base and some of the moving pieces that drove the strong leverage? I would just comment as we mentioned  that both Tom and Paul mentioned as you look from Q4 to Q1 and Q2 where we saw the sequential improvement especially in the non-automotive businesses or as you look at their core business improving over the last quarter or two Q2 being the stronger one.
What we are getting is additional leverage off the SG&amp;A there.
Got it.
And within auto itself did you have better SG&amp;A leverage this quarter even with the same type of top line growth? Well we did.
And I mentioned that earlier automotive again with that strong volume thats pushing through we are having some nice improvement on their SG&amp;A as well.
Got it.
Okay.
And then looking at Exego can you give us anymore color on how you think you can grow that business going forward? Have you examined the growth opportunities? Do you have any color to share? We have examined it.
And we think there were several opportunities there.
I think that expanding the store count will help us as we go forward and that can either be organic growth or perhaps acquiring some smaller independent companies and then some product line extensions we think will help them in their growth strategy going forward.
So we are pretty optimistic about what can happen with that business.
And thats all within existing geographies? Well that would be in existing geography.
And then at the outset when we made the acquisition we have said that our first priority would be to continue to build out and enhance market share in Australia New Zealand and then medium term we would be looking to use that company as a platform company to expand up into some Southeast Asian markets which we still think could make some sense.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of Michael Montani ISI Group.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Hey Mike.
Hey Mike.
First one was for Carol just wanted to understand how you guys are thinking about gross margins for the back half.
I think from the last quarters call it sounded like there was opportunity for slight upside to gross margins and now I am hearing kind of around 30.
So is there any initiatives maybe you have on track that could kind of take those margins up all else equal or is it really going to be a function of customer mix and product mix? What  I think what we are saying is we are getting a little bit further down we are saying around 30%.
I mean we certainly as I mentioned all four of our businesses have committees and a lot of initiatives going on where they are looking at a lot of things but I think some of the things that are headwinds to us will remain and some of that as I talked about within automotive and their key large customers but we have got initiatives working in all our areas.
And I think I guess that will be helpful just to maintain those margins or not have the deterioration that we have had but certainly we are combining that with our SG&amp;A improvement and the idea would be that we maintain this 20 basis point improvement in operating margin that we have right now.
Alright okay.
Thank you.
And a follow-up for Paul if I could on the auto side there has been so much made of kind of volatility in weather and you touched on it somewhat but the way we have been thinking about it is maybe like a low double-digit increase in April could still be up low to mid single can you provide any color in terms of either how you guys exited what July looks like or really what the sequential moderation would have been there? So Mike we came out of Q1 as you know very strong and that continued right through both April and May.
We saw some deceleration in June.
And while it was still a good month we were certainly up against some stronger comps.
And I would say that early in July just a couple of weeks in we are seeing some of those same I dont want to say softness but its not at the run rate at April and May.
Okay thats helpful.
And I guess the last question I had was just on the mega versus independent splits in the past you guys have provided some color there in terms of year-over-year growth can you provide an update there perhaps Tom or just how should we think about the balance between those two? But the mega growth was mid single-digit and the independent growth was just a tick down from that.
And as I said its the first positive quarter that we have seen on the independent side in six quarters.
So we were pleased to see it and its the closest comparable performance we have seen between the two over that same time period.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Thank you Mike.
Thank you Mike.
And we do have time for one final question.
Your final question for today will come from the line of Liang Feng with Morningstar.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you discuss in further detail the main drivers of your Major Accounts growth and whether your go to market strategy in this segment has changed a lot to help drive this double-digit performance? I will take a first step at it and Paul may jump in.
The way the program is structured is that we have headquarters to headquarters contact.
And we talk about what our capabilities might be and what our value proposition might be to a major account.
If there is an interest on their part to expanding the relationship some of the terms and conditions are negotiated at the headquarters level.
But then the actual implementation is done at the store level market by market.
And our proposition to the major accounts hasnt changed for a number of years.
Perhaps our consistency dependability our level of execution in the field may be partly whats driving that at the rates that we are growing today.
Yes.
I would just add to that that we have got great relationships with our key partners on the major accounts side.
So you are talking about the likes of AAA and Firestone and Goodyear tire kingdom.
Our competitors are chasing that business as well.
We have got a very focused effort.
We have got a great team that works very hard to grow our market share inside of those major accounts.
And our team has done a very good job as I think is evident in our recent numbers.
Yes.
This performance is particularly notable because several of your larger competitors have noted the desire to target major accounts more aggressively have you noticed any changes within your competition from these larger competitors within this field? No I would just say that everyday the battle right.
Whether its major accounts or the business on the street but we have not seen a major change in the levels of competition with our majors.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
And that will conclude todays question-and-answer portion.
I would like to turn the conference call back over to management for closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for participating in todays call.
And we appreciate your interest in and support of Genuine Parts Company.
And we look forward to reporting back out at our third quarter release.
Thank you.
And once again we like to thank you for your participation on todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Celina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn todays conference call over to Mr.
Sid Jones Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts third quarter 2014 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The companys actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the companys latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid.
And I would also like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President along with Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of todays call.
And once we have completed our individual remarks we will look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our third quarter results and hopefully you have had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were 3.986 billion and this was up 8% over the prior year.
Operating income was 298.3 million which was up 10%; net income was 190.5 million which was also up 10% and our earnings per share were $1.24 this year compared to $1.12 last year which is an 11% increase.
So with revenues up 8% net income up 10% and EPS up 11% we feel that we came through the quarter in good shape.
And as you will hear from Carol in a few minutes all four of our business segments were able to show operating margin improvement in the quarter which is encouraging and in our opinion indicative of an overall good job done by each of our management teams.
Turning to the individual performances by business segment as we customarily do Ill make a few comments on the non-automotive operations and then Paul will follow with an overview of the Automotive segment.
Starting with industrial.
This is our second largest segment representing 31% of total company revenues on a year-to-date basis.
Were pleased to report another solid quarter from the industrial team.
Sales were up 10% and this continues the trend of sequentially strengthening sales results going back to the final quarter of last year.
After being up 3% in the fourth quarter of 2013 we were up 4% in the first quarter 7% in the second quarter and 10% in the third quarter.
And if we look at it without acquisitions and foreign exchange impact in the first quarter were up 2% second quarter up 4% and third quarter up 8%.
So a nice trend in the sales progression and our industrial operations are now up 7% year-to-date.
And looking a bit more closely at the results on a product basis were pleased to see positive growth across all of our major product categories in the quarter.
And then from a customer perspective 11 of our top 12 customer segments are showing growth in the quarter as well.
The strongest segments in alphabetical order are automotive coal and aggregate iron and steel lumber and wood products and pulp and paper.
And similar to our overall sales results for the quarter each of our top 12 customer categories had their strongest sales increases of the year perhaps reflective of further strengthening in the industrial segment of the economy which should bode well for our industrial business in the quarters ahead.
Moving on to EIS our electrical electronic and wire and cable segment were pleased to be able to report another strong revenue quarter with sales up 35% which is the strongest quarter of the year.
However it is important to point out that most of our revenue increase is attributable to acquisitions completed over the past 12 months and the underlying business is up just slightly similar to what we have seen pretty much all year long.
Lower copper prices had been a slight headwind to our revenue growth on the electrical side but more significant has been the deferred demand that we have seen from telecommunication customers in the wire and cable segment and reduced demand from several contract manufacturers in the electronic segment.
While we dont anticipate significant changes in any of these specific situations until early 2015 we do see some modest improvement in the early days of the fourth quarter.
And this combined with the acquisition revenue will enable EIS to report a strong finish to the year.
Switching to the office product segment S.
P.
Richards turned in a fine quarter with sales up 15%.
As with our industrial operations we have seen nice sequential improvement from the office products group.
In the fourth quarter of last year they were down 4% they were even in the first quarter of this year and then up 4% in Q2 and up 15% in Q3.
And looking at it without acquisitions and currency exchange impact we were down 4% in the fourth quarter of last year down 1% in the first quarter of this year and then up 2% in Q2 and up 8% in Q3.
As just referenced acquisitions accounted for approximately seven points to the increase in the third quarter and the increased volume from our new Office Depot agreement was a significant contributor as well.
However we were encouraged with the mid single digit growth that we saw with our independent office products resellers.
This is back-to-back solid quarters with this important segment of our customer base and were pleased with the results that were seeing here.
Were also pleased to see solid results across all four of our main product categories.
Technology products core office supplies and furniture reached up mid to high single digit in the quarter and facility and breakroom supplies were up low double digit.
So good results across all of the product categories as well as across our two primary customer categories the independent resellers on the megas and were pleased with the consistency and the balance that we saw in our sales results in the quarter.
And importantly we feel that the office products team is well positioned to end the year in good shape.
So thats a brief overview of our non-automotive businesses.
And at this point we will ask Paul to bring up-to-date on the automotive segment.
Paul?  Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and let me add my welcome to our quarterly conference call.
Im pleased to join you today and to have an opportunity to provide you an update on the third quarter performance of our automotive business.
As Tom mentioned in his opening remarks our automotive business grew top line revenues by 4% in the third quarter.
This essentially reflects our core automotive growth for the quarter of 4.4%.
This sales increase was in line with our expectations.
We were able to deliver on our commitments in spite of the milder than normal temperatures here in the U.S.
evidence of our teams out in the field continuing to perform at a high level.
When evaluating on our quarterly performance were encouraged by the solid results across our automotive businesses including the U.S.
Canada Mexico and Australia and New Zealand.
In the U.S.
all regions of the country are positively contributing to our sales growth.
As has been the case the past several quarters our Midwest and Central divisions continue to lead the way for the company.
We also saw solid sales growth in the Southern Atlantic and Mountain regions of the country.
Turning to our U.S.
company owned same store sales.
Comp store sales growth in the third quarter came in at plus 6%.
This 6% increase is on top of 4% in the same quarter of 2013 giving us a two year stack of plus 10%.
This solid performance continues to run up strong same store sales numbers dating back to the fourth quarter of 2013 when our team delivered a 7% increase.
The NAPA team continued to execute well as they delivered an 8% increase in the first quarter of 2014 followed up with a 7% increase last quarter.
While were pleased with these strong numbers we also are well aware of the tougher comps facing us in the quarters ahead.
Our sales increase in Q3 was bolstered by continued strong growth in our commercial wholesale segment.
We followed up our 7% increase in Q2 with another healthy increase of 6% in the third quarter.
As most of you know the key drivers of our commercial business are the NAPA AutoCare centers and our strong alliance with our major account customers.
These two big wholesale initiatives continue to exceed expectations and were proud of our dedicated teams in both these businesses.
Lets start with our major account business.
This important segment of our business delivered its fifth consecutive quarter of low double digit sales growth.
And turning to our NAPA AutoCare centers we continue to grow the overall number of AutoCare centers now totaling over 15 500.
This team posted high single digit sales increase in the quarter and through nine months they were up low double digits year-over-year.
So all in all another fine performance by these two segments of our commercial business.
Another segment of our commercial business worth breaking out is our all important fleet business.
As a reminder this segment posted a 6% increase in the second quarter and we followed that up with a 7% increase in the third quarter.
This strong performance puts us at plus 7% through three quarters.
We can also report improving trends in our average wholesale ticket value with little to no inflation support.
We are also encouraged to see our average number of tickets continuing to increase.
We continue to be pleased with our improved performance in our retail business.
This segment of our business grew 5% in the third quarter.
And if you'll recall our retail business generated a 9% increase in the first quarter and a 7% increase in the second quarter.
As we saw with our wholesale business we generated a mid single digit increase in our average retail ticket value while we experienced a slight decline in our average number of retail tickets in the quarter.
Our team has been working hard to drive both increased foot traffic and our average retail ticket value.
These efforts are beginning to take hold and were pleased with this performance through nine months.
Now lets take a look at the product categories driving our growth.
Our heavy duty business continues to post strong results as this group generated low double digit growth in the quarter.
We also experienced low double digit growth in our brake business and strong growth from our tool and equipment business.
Core product categories like chassis ride control and our filter business all experienced mid to high single digit growth.
Conversely the milder temps experienced this summer had a negative impact on our heating and cooling product sales.
So in summary were encouraged by the growth opportunities available to us in both the retail and commercial sectors of the automotive aftermarket.
While we have much work ahead of us we remain optimistic that the initiatives our team is focused on will continue to drive strong results.
We would also add that the industry fundamentals remain steady and positive for the aftermarket.
The average age of vehicles on the road remains in excess of 11 years the total fleet is large and growing and deferred maintenance remains at historically high numbers.
Likewise important metrics such as the price of gasoline and miles driven are trending favorable.
Fuel prices continue to decrease and accordingly miles driven have increased now for the sixth consecutive month through August and stand at plus 0.6% year-to-date.
In closing were pleased with our third quarter results as well as our year-to-date performance.
While we didnt experience a hot summer were all hoping for our NAPA team persevered and delivered another in a series of good quarters.
We are proud of our management team and know they remain committed to driving profitable growth throughout 2014 and beyond.
We would like to personally thank all of our associates both at NAPA North America and at GPC Asia-Pac and Australia and New Zealand for their efforts in the third quarter.
So that completes our overview of the automotive business.
And at this time Ill hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol?  Thank you Paul.
We'll begin with a review of our third quarter and nine month income statements and the segment information and then we will review a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back up to wrap it up and then we will open the call up to your questions.
As Tom mentioned our total revenues were a record 4 billion for the third quarter an increase of 8% from last year which includes the 5% underlying sales growth a 3% contribution from acquisitions and this was offset by a currency headwind of approximately 0.5%.
Our gross profit for the third quarter was 29.7% of sales compared to the 29.9% gross margin reported last year.
For the nine months our gross margin of 29.9% compares to the 29.6% reported last year or 29.8% excluding the one time purchase accounting adjustment in 2013 thats previously been disclosed and also referenced in todays press release.
The pressure on our third quarter gross margin reflects the impact of our ongoing customer and product mix shifts that we see in our businesses.
For 2014 we expect our margins to approach the 30% range with the gradual expectation of margin expansion in 2015 and the years ahead.
This is an area that is receiving a good bit of our management team's attention.
As an additional point of interest were seeing some slight inflation in our nonautomotive businesses year-to-date but we continue to see very little inflation in automotive and we dont expect this to change over the balance of the year.
Our year-to-date cumulative pricing for 2014 is 0.2% in automotive 1.2% in industrial 1.2% in office products and 0.3% in electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A.
Our total expenses were 885 million in the third quarter which is an improvement of 30 basis points to 22.2% compared to the 22.5% reported last year.
For the nine months our total SG&amp;A expenses are 2.6 billion which is 22.5% of sales compared to 22% in 2013 or 22.5% before the purchase accounting adjustment mentioned earlier.
The improvement in our third quarter SG&amp;A expenses continue to reflect a combination of our cost savings associated with the freeze of our pension plan effective January 1st as well as the ongoing benefits of our cost saving initiatives and expense leverage.
We remain focused on effectively managing our cost in every area of our business and through these initiatives we expect to show continued progress on our SG&amp;A line in the periods ahead.
Now lets discuss the results by segment.
Our automotive revenue for the third quarter was 2.1 billion and represents 52% of total sales and is up 4%.
Our operating profit of 193 million is up 7.3% so their margin improved by 30 basis points to 9.2% from the 8.9% last year.
For the nine months our automotive sales of 6.1 billion is up 10%.
Our operating profit of 550 million is up 12.8% and our margin is up 20 basis points year-to-date to 9.0%.
Our industrial sales were 1.2 billion in the third quarter and this is 31% of our total revenues and up 10% from 2013.
Our operating profit of 95.3 million is up 20% and our operating margin expanded a strong 60 basis points to 7.8% from the 7.2% last year.
Year-to-date industrial sales of 3.57 billion are up 7%.
Our operating profit of 274 million is up 10.7% and our margin of 7.7% is up 30 basis points from last year.
Our office products revenues were 497 million in the quarter or 12% of total revenues and up a very strong 15.4%.
Our operating profit of 33.3 million is up 19% so their operating margin increased by 20 basis points to 6.7%.
For the nine months office revenues of 1.3 million represent 11% of the total and are up 6.4%.
Our operating profit of 98.4 million is up 8% and our margin is up 10 basis points from last year to 7.4%.
The electrical group had sales in the third quarter of 193 million and that's 5% of our revenue and up 35%.
Operating profit of 17.8 million is up 41% and their margin is 9.2% which is up 40 basis points from last years 8.8%.
Year-to-date sales for this group are 562 million or up 32% and our operating profit of 50 million is up 41%.
So our margin is up nicely to 8.9% from the 8.3% last year which is a solid increase of 60 basis points.
So our total operating profit was up 13% in the third quarter and our margin improved 30 basis points to 8.5%.
This increase follows a 20 and 30 basis point margin improvement in the first and second quarters respectively.
So for the nine months our total operating margin is 8.4% which is up 20 basis points from 2013.
As covered earlier our overall margin expansion is supported by increases in each of our four business segments in both the quarter and the nine months.
So were encouraged by this progress and we remain focused on continued margin expansion in the periods ahead.
We had net interest expense of 6.3 million in the third quarter which is down from the 7 million last year.
For the nine months interest expense is 18.7 million and we expect this cost to remain relatively steady over the balance of 2014.
We currently estimate interest expense to be 24 million to 25 million for the full year.
Our total amortization was 8.9 million for the third quarter and this is 26.3 million for the nine months.
Year-to-date our amortization is up from last year due to the acquisition activity across all four of our segments.
We expect amortization expense to be in the 35 million to 36 million range for the full year.
The other line which reflects our corporate expense was 26 million expense for the third quarter which is relatively consistent with the first and second quarters although up from last year.
The increase from 2013 reflects an unfavorable $4 million swing associated with our retirement plan valuation adjustment as well as higher expenses for a variety of items including legal and professional insurance and incentive related costs which have continued to impact this line item.
For the nine months this line shows 75 million of expense and this is up from the 47 million last year excluding the one-time purchase accounting adjustment in 2013 of 33 million.
Currently we expect this line to be in the 90 million to 95 million range for 2014.
Our tax rate was approximately 36.1% for the third quarter of 2014 and 2013.
For the nine months our 36% tax rate compares to a 34% tax rate for the same period the prior year.
The increase in our nine months tax rate is primarily due to last years favorable tax rate on the one-time purchase accounting gain.
Looking ahead we expect our full year tax rate for 2014 to be in the 36% range.
Our net income for the quarter at 190.5 million compares to the 173.7 million or up 10%.
Our EPS of $1.24 compared to the $1.12 last year is up 11% and for the nine months our net income of 546 million is up 9% and our EPS of $3.53 is up 10% from the nine months of 2013 on a comparative basis.
Now lets discuss some of the balance sheet items.
Our cash at September 30th was 136 million which was down from approximately 321 million last September and 197 million at December 31st.
We continue to use our cash to support the growth initiatives in each of our businesses and we remain comfortable with our cash position at September 30th.
Our accounts receivable of 2 billion at September 30th increased 12% from the same period in 2013 on an 8% sales increase for the quarter.
We remain focused on our goal of growing receivables at a rate less than the revenue growth and we have some work to do in this area in the periods ahead.
But were very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at quarter end was 3 billion which is up approximately 6% from last September and up only 2% from December 31st.
Before the impact of acquisitions inventory is basically unchanged from year-end and up 3% from last September so our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels.
We will remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move forward during the year and also into 2015.
Our accounts payable balance at September 30th was 2.5 billion or up 15% from September 2013 and this is due to the positive impact of our extended payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors and to a lesser extent the impact of acquisitions.
Our continued improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital in days and payables is encouraging.
We expect this favorable trend to continue in the periods ahead.
Our working capital of 1.9 billion at September 30th compares to 1.8 billion at December 30th of 2013 an increase of 6%.
Effectively managing accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a very high priority for our company and our ongoing efforts with these key accounts have resulted in solid improvement in our working capital and cash flow.
Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at September 30 2014.
The total debt of 835 million at September 30th is relatively unchanged from last year and it represents approximately 19% of our total capitalization.
The September 30 2014 debt includes two 250 million term notes as well as another 335 million in borrowings under our multi-currency syndicated credit facility agreement.
We are comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
Thus far in 2014 our cash from operations is approximately 586 million and for the full year we currently expect cash from operations to be approximately 900 million.
We expect free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends to be in the 425 million to 450 million range.
We are pleased with the continued strength of our cash flows and we remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for cash is the dividend which we have paid every year since going public in 1948 and have now raised for 58 consecutive years.
Our annual dividend of $2.30 per share in 2014 represents a 7% increase from the $2.15 per share paid in 2013 and thats approximately 52% of our 2013 earnings and that is well within our goal of the 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal will be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our core businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures was 34 million for the third quarter and 74 million for the nine months.
We currently expect our capital expenditures to pick up further over the balance of the year and we look for our CapEx expending to be in the range of 120 million to 130 million for the full year.
This is down slightly from our previous estimate of 130 million to 140 million but in line with our prior year CapEx of 124 million.
As usual the vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization was 35 million in the third quarter consistent with third quarter last year and 109 million for the nine months which is up from the 98 million in the prior year.
The nine-month increase reflects the impact of GPC Asia Pacific as well as our more recent acquisitions.
We currently anticipate depreciation and amortization to be approximately 145 million to 150 million for the full year.
Our strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of cash for us and they're integral to the growth plans for our company.
In the third quarter we made three acquisitions including one small tuck-in for both our automotive and electrical businesses as well as the July 1st addition of Impact Products to our office products group which we discussed in our last call.
All in we have made seven acquisitions thus far in 2014 including one in each of our four business segments.
We expect these new businesses to contribute total annual revenues of approximately 390 million.
We are encouraged by the growth opportunities we see for each of these acquisitions and well continue to seek new acquisitions across our businesses to enhance our prospect for future growth.
Were generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally thus far in 2014 we have used our cash to repurchase approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program.
Today we have another 9.5 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we expect to remain active in the program over the balance of the year as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with our dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
So that concludes our financial update a solid quarter but more room for improvement.
And in closing we want to thank our GPC associates for all their hard work.
We have a great team.
And because of their dedication and hard work the company is well positioned for continued growth in the fourth quarter and beyond.
We look forward to updating you on our future progress when we report again.
I will now turn it back over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Carol and Paul for those informative and comprehensive updates.
So that will complete our planned comments.
And in recapping our view on the quarter we would say that we feel good about the performance turned in by the GPC team with sales up 8% net income up 10% and earnings per share up 11%.
As we look toward year-end based upon our year-to-date results we feel that some modest adjustments to our prior guidance would be appropriate.
On the revenue side we previously had guided automotive revenues to be up 7% to 8% and at this point we would say that that would be up closer to the 8%.
In industrial we previously had said up 5% to 7% and now we would say up 6% to 7%.
Office products was 6% to 7% and at this point we would say 8% to 9%.
Electrical was 25% to 30% and we would suggest right at 30%.
So for the total company prior guidance was to be up 7% to 8% and now we would say we'll be up 8%.
And on the earnings side we previously had guided in the $4.54 to $4.60 range.
We are comfortable taking that upside and we now feel that $4.56 to $4.60 is more appropriate and that would represent an earnings per share increase of 9% to 10% for the full year.
So at this point we would like to address your questions.
And we will turn the call back to.
Celina.
Celina?   (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Mark Becks with JP Morgan.
I guess just to start off on the automotive side.
Looking at your guidance of 8% sales growth by my calculations it looks like it's sort of like a 3%-ish number in sales growth for NAPA in 4Q.
Maybe just trying to get an update on how you are thinking about the automotive trends.
Obviously they are still very solid but you are lapping some pretty impressive comparisons so maybe what you are seeing in the business now.
Thank you.
I will try to answer that.
The guidance would suggest some modest deceleration.
However as you pointed out the comps are getting a bit more challenging.
And we also dont know what the early winter weather impact we may get this year.
As far as the current trends we would say that we are pleased with what we see in automotive specifically in the beginning or the early days of the fourth quarter.
And I might say that that same comment would hold true for the other businesses as well.
We are early in October but we do like what we see at this point.
And then on the gross margin side a little bit of a headwind there.
Can you elaborate a little bit on what caused the pressure there? Is there any change in the promotional activity going on in the category? Is that maybe some acquisition related impact? Thank you.
The margin as I think we mentioned in the last call the margin is being impacted a bit by the customer mix and the product mix that we see across our businesses.
And as you know the larger the customer in any of our businesses the greater the discount that they receive.
So the margin compacts some.
However the offset to that is the greater the volume the more leverage that we can get.
So in the quarter our gross margin was down 18 basis points but our SG&amp;A was down 29 basis points so we did have a positive 11 basis point improvement in our operating margin.
So thats the primary thing thats happened.
If we look at it on the product side we see nice growth in a couple of areas that Paul mentioned.
Certainly our heavy duty business was up and thats a little bit lower gross margin but higher ticket values.
The same thing would be true on tools and equipment in the automotive.
If we look at the office products business I mentioned that our technology products were up again higher ticket value but lower margin.
So I think they would be the primary contributing factors.
And then just a follow-up to the margin comment.
On the industrial side presumably you might have hit some vendor rebates kicking in with the big acceleration there maybe where thats coming from and the sustainability of that.
It looks like incremental margins were kind of mid-teens maybe historically what you've seen with incremental margins on the industrial side.
Thank you.
So Mark on the gross margin on the industrial what we would say is certainly with their core growth coming back a bit were seeing some of the volume incentives come back but I would say its really more trending in line with what their sales increases are.
It was primarily more their cost savings and the leverage that came through on that for the industrial side.
The next question comes from the line of John Lovallo with Bank of America.
Hi this is Elizabeth Suzuki on for John.
In terms of the acquisition landscape which segment are you most interested in? And how do the multiples being paid for acquisitions compare to about a year ago?  I will try to answer that.
And I would say that our overall growth strategies across each of the businesses include a component for acquisition growth.
We have been able to make acquisitions in each of the four businesses over the course of this year.
In terms of where the acquisitions may come from prospectively weve got active discussions going on in each of the businesses but there are more possibilities in the industrial and the electrical sides of the business only because those industries continue to be the more fragmented of the two industries that were in.
In terms of the valuations valuations are relatively constant with where theyve been.
They might be pushing the top end of what we would consider to be reasonable valuation but they're still relatively consistent.
And I would also just as a point of information I would say that we continue to be what we would consider to be fairly consistent in our valuation models and were going to  if it doesnt fit our model there is a high probability it won't be a deal that we do.
Were not going to do any deals that are dilutive to our shareholders.
And then just one other quick one is that GPC once operated in Europe.
Do you foresee any future operations there?  As it turns out I actually was involved in that business stack then.
And I think our primary emphasis would be in North America in Australasia and potentially South East Asia and then also into more in Mexico and Latin America.
Not to the exclusion of Europe but that would be down the list.
We think there may be other opportunities for us in these other areas that might be more attractive.
The next question comes from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Hi.
This is actually Chris Bottiglieri on for Aram.
Was hoping you can kind of walk us through the incremental margins maybe by segment and what youre seeing particularly perhaps ex acquisitions.
It seems like you had a lot of very strong growth obviously in industrial on an organic basic the same with office.
So maybe just talk about like your maybe implied margins for -- was this quarter  I want to keep saying Q4 or maybe just long term where you expect those to trend? I guess just to comment on -- so a couple of things on the margin.
While we were able to see -- what were seeing there and again youre seeing it in total so there is some gross margin pressure but youre seeing our improvement on SG&amp;A and that really applies to all of our segments.
And I think where were seeing the improved top line growth were able to really see that push through on the SG&amp;A line.
So where we are more on the nine months year-to-date basis and when you look at what our margins are up for each of our segments were still going to really hope to keep the 10 to 20 basis point improvement for each one of those and a little bit greater than that in the electrical.
but I think maintaining where we are at through the nine months and looking for just a continued 10 to 20 basis points for each of the segments.
And one another additional small question.
Can you talk a little bit about the industrial whats causing the explosive growth in organic revenue? But at least compared to industrial production it seems to really have accelerated this past quarter.
And maybe one of the segments that you're playing out might be outperforming versus the benchmark?   We mentioned five I think it was five categories or customer segments that weve enjoyed a little bit stronger growth than the overall and they pretty much follow what youre seeing happening in the economy.
If you look automotive is a strong segment for us right and you see whats happening with new vehicle sales.
Lumber and wood products and the mining and aggregate are both fairly strong for us and we think that may follow whats happening with construction both housing as well as commercial construction.
So I think were following the overall trends within the economy.
The external indices industrial production capacity utilization theyve actually been fairly strong for a number of months now.
And its been our expectation that we would see some improvement in our sequential growth rates and I think were just now beginning to experience some of that.
And then one other thing I might add is that in prior calls I think weve mentioned that we keep track of what we would call project work which is work that our manufacturing customers are planning to do where they may take a line down or they may do a complete refurbishment.
And to the best of our ability we try to quantify what that might be and we follow the patterns on that end for a period of time.
What we saw is a relatively consistent dollar amount of project work.
But to take out on that was not flowing as it had historically.
We had seen some deferrals some delays and were beginning to see some of that work being done now.
So thats probably contributing a bit to the overall growth rates as well.
Next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
A quick question I guess on the auto.
I was about to ask that project work question a second ago but just to sort of follow off on that.
Whats the expectation -- I mean if we sort of look at the quarter on the industrial side how would it weigh percentage that was sort of just general disposable as opposed to project work from a contribution standpoint just sort of trying to get a feeling for where we are what inning we are in the expansion of projects work?  Bret Ill try to answer that.
And I would say that it was more weighted toward the day in and day out needs than it was the project work.
We were pleased to see some increased activity on the project work but the overall growth rates were more driven by a good steady demand from ongoing operations.
Okay.
And then back to my other question.
If we look at sort of any prospective or early look at market share shifts are you seeing anything shaking out as far as recent consolidation? I think a question was asked earlier about increased promotional levels.
But are you seeing maybe a shift in some of the customers' bias to go with you as a commercial supplier as opposed to other competitors?  I think the best way we could answer that would be to point to our NAPA AutoCare on our major account business.
Paul referenced in his comments that weve enjoyed nice growth again this quarter and weve had a number of really good quarters there.
And I think those results would indicate that there has been a bit of share gain with those customers or a share gain by those customers whichever and I think were benefiting from that.
I dont know if there is more that Paul might want to add to that.
No.
Tom hit on it Bret.
Those two businesses as weve discussed before continue to perform well and show no real signs of slowing.
So I would think with the kind of growth rates that weve seen high single digit out of our AutoCare group this past quarter and low double digits out of our major accounts.
were very pleased with that performance and our team's really got to go on all cylinders.
And Paul one last question.
You mentioned that all markets were -- all regional markets were up and some of the standout strong markets.
What were the weaker markets relative just geographically? As weve seen a good bit this year Bret out West and certainly when we always like to talk about weather certainly the drought has impacted we believe some of our customers out there both on the installer side as well as some of our independent owners.
So that would be absolutely one that would stand out.
Next question comes from the line of Robert Higginbotham with SunTrust.
Quick first question on auto and imports specifically.
Your major competitors have really increased their attention on that piece of the business and theyre doing it in a couple of different ways a couple of people using the warehouse distributor model and then some cross-sourcing to the legacy stores if you will and then one focusing on developing private labels specifically for imports.
You guys really dont talk much about that.
Could you give us a sense to how you view that piece of the market? How important you see it and how you see yourselves attacking that going forward? Yes Robert this is Paul.
I will give it a shot.
I am assuming youre referring to a couple of our competitors and recent acquisitions.
And youre right we dont talk much about the OE import business.
But I would tell you that six plus years ago we did an acquisition of a company called Altrom which is a OE branded provider that we acquired six years ago.
They do business both in the U.S.
and Canada.
We viewed it then as we view it now as a very strategic and integral part of our overall automotive business.
And weve been getting after it for a number of years.
So I think that what youre seeing with our competitors recent acquisitions which I think is a good move on their part it just further reinforces the opportunities that are in that segment of the business.
Okay.
And then on the Asia Pacific and when you look outside of Australia in the past you've somewhat loosely alluded to opportunities outside of Australia and using Australia as a foothold as a platform for growth in the larger region.
Could you give us a sense of how -- what you see in those neighboring markets specifically automotive in terms of size competitive fragmentation kind of what the opportunity is there? Ill take that one Robert.
First of all our primary and near term focus is continuing to build out in Australia and New Zealand and the team there is doing a really good job for us in that regard and we continue to see some pretty attractive opportunities in those markets today.
At the same time were looking at some other markets.
I had mentioned that China is not high on our list.
Although its a large and rapidly growing market its not one that we think is ready for a company like ours yet or a company like ours is not yet ready for China either way.
But there are some other markets.
Although theyre smaller theyre enjoying very attractive growth rates in the vehicle part.
And when you total up a couple of them theyd become fairly significant.
So were in the process of trying to gather as much market intelligence as we can currently make as many contacts as we can with existing players in those markets.
And at some point its probable that well make a move to start to do business in some of those markets.
Okay.
And let me sneak one quick one and hopefully -- in the past youve talked about a stronger dollar hurting the export business of some of your customers and then that of course are flowing through to softness in your own business.
Are you seeing any of that happen now or are you concerned about that? Yes it continues.
The dollar continues to be quite strong vis--vis other currencies.
So that continues to be an issue for those customers of ours primarily capital goods type customers who are shipping and selling product into some of these other markets.
And then you combine that with a general malaise in the global economy and youve got a combination of maybe a bit softer demand and the higher dollar that causes some compression for some of those customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
I have my first question on office products to change it up a bit and a couple of quick follow-ups on automotive.
If you think about the pop that you saw in the underlying growth rate in office supply and if you could sort of isolate as best as you can some of the drivers of it can you talk about how much maybe layering in the Office Max business would be versus your getting just a bigger share of the pie given your new deal down at Office Depot? And then finally what youre seeing in terms of intrinsic demand which based on what you saw from the independents that also seems like it wasnt so bad? Maybe well take them in reverse order Matt.
The demand was actually encouraging especially from the independents and there has been a lot of work going on by our office products team to work with independent owners to help them improve their position in their respective marketplaces and I think thats a partial contributor to results that we saw.
Additionally we had seen some slowdown in governmental spending as a general statement and that has a ripple effect on a number of our independent customers and we saw that improve some over the last two quarters.
So thats been a contributor as well.
As far as looking out a little bit were encouraged by what weve seen on the independents side and the expectation is that it should continue to generate reasonably good growth for us over the next quarter or two for sure.
It's hard for us -- moving on to the question on the incremental volume from Office Depot and Office Max it's hard for us to be able to extrapolate that very precisely.
I can tell you that the aggregate volume is running very much in line with what we thought it would be and what the Office Depot folks thought it would be.
So were very pleased with what we see in the early days and I think it's a reflection of the combined entities but it's also I think a reflection on some improved demand for the combined entity today and I think they're doing a pretty good job.
Great.
On automotive kind of a quantitative question.
If you could just help us understand the difference between the 4% reported total growth and the 6% comp presumably there is -- there would ordinarily be I guess store growth.
I might have gone the other way you have ForEx.
Anything else that would have driven that delta?  No you hit on it Matt.
Just to reemphasize the 6% same store sales number that we mentioned thats reflective of our U.S.
company owned store base.
There is a combination of factors this past quarter that impact the overall number.
We had a sales return adjustment that we've contended with as well as a couple of store consolidations and certainly as you mentioned the FX impact as well.
And if we think about sorry.
Matt excuse me for a minute.
If you aggregate those three things that Paul just mentioned that pretty much accounts for the delta between the 4.4% increase that we had and the 6% comp store.
Great.
And then also on the automotive number if your aggregate commercial business -- I believe you said it was up 6% if I got that right -- and your same store sales number was up 6% there were a number of initiatives -- you talked about major accounts running double digits NAPA AutoCare ran high singles if we solve for the residual which I guess would be commercial outside of major accounts and NAPA AutoCare there is some piece of it that must track below 6% for the math to work.
So can you talk about sort of is that just your undesignated commercial business or is there anything else happening in the business that might have been a bit weaker outside of those efforts? No.
And you are right.
The business set was not highlighted in Pauls comments is running up but it's running up low single digit and it is the unaccounted for it's the all other in our commercial business.
Fair enough.
And then I promise the last.
Just Carol if you could talk about the impact of ForEx by segment just whatever the revenue impact was for each segment? I know it was 50 bps overall although I am not sure how that was distributed.
Gives us a minute on that one.
Yeah I'll get back on that.
So on the automotive I think Paul already gave you that number.
And the industrial it was a negative 1%.
And then really no impact on office or electrical to speak of.
And then in total it was 0.5% in total.
The next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with ISI Group.
I wanted to first ask about in automotive if you could just help us understand a bit whats driving the continued double-digit type strength in major accounts.
Is there business wins that you've had with new customers or the existing customers just doing more business and youre getting more wallet share? Can you help us understand the drivers there?  Its certainly a combination of both.
Our teams are executing extremely well in the field Mike and youve got -- when you look at the major account business and you mentioned its continued growth with our existing plus some wins along the way.
And when you combined them both and then you combined it with the strong execution in the field our team continues to do a great job.
Great.
Wanted to follow up with Carol actually on the other line item which looks like now it could be 125 million to 130 million versus the prior guide I had 115 million to 117 million.
So can you just help us understand I guess incrementally what the major changes are and anything to be aware of into the fourth quarter there?  Yes.
Just to be clear so that other net line which is including the interest and the intangible we gave guidance of 90 million to 95 million for the full year.
Thats been running at about 25 million each quarter and were at 74 million year-to-date.
So the things that are going in there I mean you certainly have some increase in some of the costs that weve talked about for some time so legal professional insurance we have some of our corporate be it shared services it could be IT payroll benefits depreciation on corporate assets its pretty consistent quarter-over-quarter.
We also have -- there would be some things that are sort of non-recurring or we have some unusual items like we mentioned the $4 million retirement benefits adjustment that was unfavorable.
So we didnt change it a whole lot but were looking at more of a 90 million to 95 million for the full year.
And then two last follow-ups one was on the cash flow guidance which by my math appear to be about 50 million lower than last quarter so just hoping to understand the puts and takes there.
And lastly was on sort of incremental margins because you guys ended up putting up certainly stronger growth than I had looked for at least for this quarter but yet the margins were kind of flattish in total.
So help me if you could to understand some of the initiatives you have there to get EBIT margins expanding at the total company level.
Okay.
Well Ill take the cash flow one.
So youre right we did probably tweak that a little bit.
I would tell you weve had two outstanding cash flow years the last two years.
We feel really good about cash from operations at around 900 million.
But we didnt have quite -- I mean we feel good about the numbers we feel like there is improvement going ahead but we just felt like it was time to firm that up just a bit.
I would say the change was really in the working capital area kind of a combination of AR and AP.
The folks are doing a really good job in inventory.
But I think I could say we felt like it was time to kind of firm that up a bit.
And I think on your margin question again I would just point to where we kind of are on a year-to-date basis.
And I think where we can maintain our SG&amp;A improvement between now and end of the year I think youre going to see the segment margins that we have year-to-date that would basically continue for the end of the year.
The next question comes from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush.
My first question is on the auto group.
Can you give us a sense of the cadence of comps for the U.S.
company owned stores throughout the quarter?  Yes.
We talked about this in the last call Seth.
And if you think back that was in July and we mentioned that early July we saw some softer numbers coming out.
That's started to strengthen in the second half of the month.
And our numbers firmed up as the quarter progressed so were Id say pleased with the way the quarter came about.
And then remind us looking forward here for October November December how the cadence of the comps compares for Q4?  Maybe Im not sure -- I apologize.
Just the comparisons for the next -- for the months of Q4.
We dont give out monthly guidance.
I guess Tom another way to ask the question is how much strong was December relative to October last year because thats when the cold weather started?  Well December was if I recall -- I dont have it right in front of me Seth.
But if I recall that was the strongest month of the quarter because we were getting the benefit of some of that cold weather flow through.
Yeah.
And I would also just mention Seth last year Q4 was when we really saw our business start to come on strong.
And so our total Q4 last year were plus 7% same store sales.
Okay.
Then secondly maybe Carol you can give us some more color around AR.
You talked about it being a focal point.
Can you give us a sense of where the increases are coming from which segments and what their natures are to bring that a little bit more under control?  Well I would tell you on the AR it's really across all of the businesses.
And I think we talked about where we had some of these larger accounts and associated with some of those larger accounts they may have slightly different terms.
So what we are able to do is get those same terms back through our vendors.
But I think we also have some acquisitions that are also flowing into that and we are trying to integrate the acquisitions in.
So the thing is with our accounts receivable the quality of it is outstanding.
We have no concerns there.
It's just making sure that we are getting all the AR in line to be slightly less than our sales increase and thats what all of our internal teams are focused on.
The next question comes from line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital.
Hey guys it's Scot Ciccarelli.
Another auto question as well.
How much of a difference did you see in geographies? You mentioned that the West was soft but can you help us understand how soft that was? Number one.
Number two.
You did mention in drought conditions.
Can you help us better understand I guess outside of wipers and such what else from a product standpoint really struggles under those kinds of conditions?  Scot I will take the first half of that.
In terms of the delta we wouldnt want to quantify that but we would go back to what Paul said and that is that all of the geographic areas had positive growth for us in the quarter but some are stronger than others with the West being on the bottom end of that.
And in terms of the impact of the drought.
You are right about something like wiper blades but it goes a whole lot further than that when you think that California for instance is a big agricultural state and the impact that the drought has on the crops there that impacts not only demand from the agricultural concerns but it impacts the truckers who hold that product that impacts the processors who process the product.
So it has a pretty long tale in terms of how it can influence demand.
A lot of the workers in the ag community may not have quite as much disposable income.
It can affect a retail business.
So its a significant factor.
And Tom specifically who are your primary competitors when it comes to stuff like the agricultural products or is it the right way to think about it just the long tail that you mentioned and because of that it's just a cascading effect? I think the right way is the long tail.
When we talk about the competition it's all of the companies that you would know.
We are all located in those respective markets.
Now there will be some specialists as well.
But for us for the product that we are selling the primary competitors would be our peer group and the companies that you are well aware of.
Your question comes from the line of Mario Gabelli with Gabelli &amp; Company  Yeah.
I had to ask the question to you and Paul and Tom.
Paul when you sit down with Tom and he says to you his experience in Europe what structurally does he remind you about that he had as a problem that you won't encounter in Southeast Asia either political rigidity of labor or just the notion of only traveling eights hours versus 24?  You know what Mario I think I better let him answer the question.
I'm staying clear of that one.
That one is up upward delegation right there Mario.
No the structural -- it would be getting at it was my comment about the...
Yeah.
Tom it was about 35 years ago wasnt?  No.
In terms of our business over there it's performing really well.
We will in fact expand it outside of those countries.
No.
But what happened in Europe that says I dont want to go back as a high player?  In Europe what we saw was we had our doubts about how long it would take for the common market on the the EU to actually come into being.
And number two how successful would it be over the long-term.
We didnt have any insights beyond anybody elses but I think current situation might suggest that we were asking appropriate questions back then.
Back then you didnt have the common currency that you have today but you have got different languages you have got different rules of law youve got different methods of approaching the business.
And our feeling at the time was that we would continue to be successful but it was going to be a much tougher slog than what we were accustomed to.
And keep in the mind also we had just acquired S.
P.
Richards and Motion Industries and we had been approached someone who wanted to buy our business and we felt we could repatriate the money and invest it in S.
P.
Richards and in Motion and do a better job for the shareholder and I think that that has proven to be the case for the most part.
Well the conclusion we agree with that's it's been a fantastic 35 years since you got out of Europe.
Thank you very much.
I will now turn today's conference call back to management for closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for their participation on the call and we thank you for your interest in and support of Genuine Parts Company.
We look forward to reporting out in February on our fourth quarter earnings.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This will conclude todays conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
My name is [indiscernible].
I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn todays conference call over to Sid Jones Vice President and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts' fourth quarter and full year 2014 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the 2015.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the Company and its businesses.
The Companys actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the Companys latest SEC filings.
The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid.
And I would also like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue the President of Genuine Parts Company along with Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of todays call.
And once we have completed our individual comments we will look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our fourth quarter and year end results and hopefully you've all had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $3.822 billion which was up 9% net income was $165.6 million which was up 10% and earnings per share were $1.07 this year versus $0.97 last year which was also up 10%.
So we feel that our team came through the final quarter of the year in good shape.
For the year sales were $15.342 billion which was up 9%.
Net income was $711 million up 4% on a reported basis and up 9% on a comparative basis.
You'll recall that in 2013 we had one time purchase accounting gains that were related to the GPC Asia-Pacific acquisition and that had a onetime favorable impact on the 2013 results.
Earnings per share for the year were $4.61 and EPS was up 5% on a reported basis and 10% on a comparative basis.
Sales net income and earnings per share each reached record levels in 2014 which we're certainly pleased to report and we're also pleased that the sales in EPS results both came in a bit above our full year guidance that was provided back in October with all four of our business segments contributing nicely.
Turning to the individual segments I will cover the non automotive operations first followed by Paul who will then review the automotive performance.
Starting off with industrial the motion industries team came through the year in good shape.
Sales for the year were just under $4.8 billion and this was up 8% and we were pleased with the cadence of the year with sales being up 4% in the first quarter 7% in the second and then 10% in each of the final two quarters of the year and these solid results were underpinned by broad based positive contributions across the major product categories as well as the major customer segments.
On the product side we ended the year with 11 of our top 13 categories showing growth and encouragingly all 13 were up in the final quarter.
Among our top 12 customer segments 11 posted positive results for the year and all 12 were positive over the final three months again encouraging trends.
Among the strongest growing segments for the year in no particular order were automotive coal aggregate and cements iron and steel lumber and wood products.
This a diversified cross section of the North American manufacturing base and we feel that these solid results are reflective of the improved conditions that we currently see in the overall economy which is encouraging as we head into the new year.
Before ending our comments on industrial we do want to mention that we completed the acquisition of Miller Bearing as of February 1st of this year.
Miller is a highly regarded regional industrial distribution company headquartered in Orlando Florida.
They operate 17 branches and have annual revenues of approximately $40 million.
This will be a great addition to our Industrial group and were pleased to have the Miller organization now a part of Motion Industries.
Turning to the Electrical segment EIS was up 23% in the fourth quarter and they were up 30% for the year.
So it was a strong performance from this team in 2014.
While certainly pleased with the overall results we do want to point out that acquisitions were the major contributor to the sizable sales increases.
In fact the EIS underlying business was only up 1% for the full year.
However we were encouraged to see the underlying business up 4% in the final quarter which was the strongest performance of the year and hopefully a sign that demand is starting to pick up a bit in this segment.
As we enter 2015 EIS will continue to see sluggish demand among our telecommunications customer base at least for the first half of the year and the deflation in copper pricing will also present a headwind but the EIS team has a number of strong revenue initiatives underway and we expect a solid performance from this team in 2015 especially over the second half of the year.
And finally office products.
Total revenues came in at $1.8 billion and this was up 10%.
As with our Industrial segment office product sales get stronger as the year progressed.
After being flat in the first quarter they were up 4% in the second quarter 15% in the third quarter and 22% in the fourth quarter.
This progression clearly shows the positive impact of our enhanced relationship with a significant customer that kicked-in in the second half of the year as well the nice contributions from the Impact Products acquisition that was completed mid-year.
But beyond this were also pleased to see single digit growth from our independent office products reseller channel for the entire year and this segment actually firmed up as the year progressed and we were also pleased to have ended the year with solid growth in all four of the major product categories.
So the results from the Office Products group were broad based from both a customer and product perspective which is encouraging and this team goes into 2015 with a bit of momentum which is good to see.
So thats a quick overview of the non-automotive businesses and as this point Ill ask Paul to bring you up-to-date on the Automotive segment.
Paul? Yes thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone.
And let me add my welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
Im pleased to join here today and to have an opportunity to provide you an update on the fourth quarter performance of our Automotive business.
Were pleased to report to our global Automotive business grew top line revenues by 4% in the fourth quarter.
This 4% number consists of 6.5% core Automotive growth which includes slight benefit from acquisition offset by 2.5% of currency adjustment.
The currency adjustment was a bigger headwind than we had anticipated for the quarter.
Our team was able to overcome this challenge with stronger than expected core growth.
When reviewing our quarterly performance we continue to be encouraged by the solid results our teams are generating across our entire automotive business.
During the fourth quarter we saw our U.S.
team posted 7% sales increase while our International businesses including Canada Mexico Australia and New Zealand grew mid-single digits.
In the U.S.
all regions of the country are positively contributing to our sales growth.
The Atlantic Western and Midwestern divisions led the way for our Company in the fourth quarter.
Now lets turn to our same store sales numbers.
Our U.S.
company owned store group grew comp same store sales in the fourth quarter by 7%.
This 7% is on top of the 7% increase we generated in the fourth quarter of 2013 which gives us a two year stack of plus 14%.
This solid performance continues the strong same-store sales run dating back to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our quarterly breakdown for 2014 is as follows.
In the first quarter we generated an 8% same store sales increase and in Q2 we posted a 7% increase and in Q3 were plus 6%.
Rolled up that gives the U.S.
automotive businesses a full year same-store sales number of plus 7%.
We are proud of our team for generating these solid results but we are also well aware we have a steep hill decline in 2015 to continue to build on these comps.
Our 7% sales increase in Q4 was driven by a combination of strong sales on both our commercial wholesale side of the business and by our retail business.
Lets start with our retail results.
As mentioned in previous calls we have put renewed focus on this segment of our business and we are pleased to report these initiatives are beginning pay dividend.
Our team did an outstanding job in the quarter driving an 11% increase in our overall retail business.
As generally is the case there was no one single initiative that drove this double digit increase but rather a combination of things that our team has been working on for the past 12 months that really began to take hold in the quarter.
Retail basic such as extended store hours proper staffing dedicated retail associates and increased training all played a part.
In addition we have fined tuned our radio and our print advertising.
We focused our team on [indiscernible] compliance and we are driven to increase both the size of our average ticket and the number of tickets falling through our stores.
In Q4 we saw a significant increase in our average retail ticket and an increase in the number of retail tickets.
We are by no means satisfied with where we are today and we have a great deal of work left to do.
However it is a testament to our team's hard work that we are moving the needle on this important initiative.
So now let's turn to our commercial wholesale business or our Do It For Me segment.
This segment turned in a 6% increase in the fourth quarter.
Recapping our year's performance our commercial business was at or exceeded 6% growth in each quarter of 2014.
Highlights for the quarter included solid performances by our two major wholesale initiatives NAPA AutoCare and major accounts.
Starting with our major account business this strategic segment delivered its sixth consecutive quarter of double digit growth a terrific accomplishment by our entire major account team and our NAPA AutoCare centers now totaling over 15 500 nationwide posted a high single digit to sales increase in the quarter.
This performance insured another year of low double digit increase for our AutoCare business.
We'd also like to report on our fleet business.
This important segment continued a solid year-over-year performance by posting a 5% increase in the quarter and we wrapped up 2014 at plus 6%.
We can also report good trends in our average wholesale ticket value which add positive growth in the month and in the quarter with little or no inflationary support.
We also saw a year-over-year growth in the average number of tickets flowing through our stores.
Now a quick review of the product categories driving our growth.
In the fourth quarter we experienced double digit growth in our Bright business our tool and equipment business and our NAPA Import Parts business a great job by our sales teams in all three of these important categories.
As we look ahead to 2015 and beyond we continue to be encouraged by the fundamentals in the Automotive aftermarket.
The average age of the fleet remains in excess of 11 years the size of the fleet continues to grow and not surprisingly the all-important miles driven metric recorded its largest growth in the past five years.
After relatively flat to even negative numbers in recent years miles driven was up 1.4% through 11 months.
We saw a jump in miles driven as the price of the gasoline dropped in late Q3 and Q4.
Miles driven was up 2.3% in September 2.6% in October and 1.1% in November.
This growth is a direct result of the lowest fuel prices we've seen in six years.
That said we are beginning to see fuel prices bench back up in early February however the national average is still significantly below last year's fuel prices.
So in summary we are pleased with our fourth quarter results as well as our full year performance.
Our teams in the U.S Canada Mexico and Australasia continue to post solid growth and as good as we feel about 2014 and our industry in general we are facing our share of headwinds as we move into 2015.
Foreign currency has a significant headwind for non-U.S automotive businesses which we'll continue to monitor.
In addition we will face challenging 2014 comps in every quarter of 2015.
That said we are confident in our strategy the key initiatives we've laid out and the management team we have in place to make it happen.
And in closing we want to thank our management teams both in North America as well as our team on the ground in Australasia for another fine year for the GPC automotive business.
So that completes our overall view of the GPC automotive business and at this time I'll hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul.
We'll begin with a review of our fourth quarter and full year income statements and our segment information and then we'll review a few key balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back at the end of my remarks and then we'll open the call up to your questions.
Our total revenues were $3.8 billion for the fourth quarter an increase of 9% from last year.
This consists of underlying sales growth of 8% and a 3% contribution from acquisitions.
These items were offset by a currency headwind of approximately 2%.
For the year our sales increase of 9% was 5% of core growth with another 5% from acquisitions offset by a 1% currency headwind.
Our gross profit for the fourth quarter was 30% of sales and this compares to the 31% gross margin last year.
For the 12 months our gross margin of 29.9% compares to 30% reported last year or 30.1% excluding the onetime purchase accounting adjustment in 2013 that was previously disclosed and also referenced in today's press release.
We're pleased that our fourth quarter gross margin was in line with our expectations.
We also recognize the need for further progress on this line and as we've stated before this area has our full attention.
As we move forward in 2015 we will rely on well executed margin initiatives across all of our businesses to offset the ongoing customer and product mix shifts that are pressuring our gross margins today.
Additionally our initiatives are important in addressing the generally low inflationary environment especially in the Automotive segment.
Our supplier price increases for 2014 were flat for Automotive up 1.5% for Industrial up 1.4% for Office Products and up three tenths of 1% for Electrical.
And currently we are planning for about the same pricing environment again in 2015.
Turning to our SG&amp;A our total expenses of $881 million in the fourth quarter were up 2.9% from 2013 and at 23.1% of sales.
This is 130 basis points improvement from the 24.3% reported last year.
For the full year our total SG&amp;A expenses are $3.5 billion which is 22.7% of sales compared to the 22.6% in the prior year or 22.9% before the purchase accounting adjustment mentioned earlier.
So this is a 20 basis point improvement on a comparative basis for the full year.
The improvement in our fourth quarter and full year SG&amp;A expenses reflect the benefit of effective cost management in every area of our business as well as greater expense coverage especially across our non-automotive businesses in 2014.
Our teams remain focused on effectively managing our cost and we expect to show continued progress on our SG&amp;A line in the periods ahead.
Now let's discuss the results by segment.
So Automotive revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.99 billion and that represents 52% of our sales and is up 3.7%.
Operating profit of $150.3 million is down 2.3%.
So their margin declined by 40 basis points to 7.6% from the 8.0% last year.
For the year automotive sales of $8.1 billion which is also 53% of our total revenues was up 8.1%.
Our operating profit of $700.4 million is up 9.2% and our margin is up 10 basis points to 8.7%.
So despite the pressure on our margin in the fourth quarter we're very pleased to report a slight increase in our operating margin for the full year.
Our Industrial sales of $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter which is 31% of our revenues is up 10.4% from the prior year.
Our operating profit of $96.3 million is up 31% and our operating margin showed strong expansion this quarter of 120 basis points to 8.0% from the 6.8% last year.
For the year our Industrial sales of $4.77 billion represents 31% of our total revenues and is up 7.7%.
Our operating profit of $370 million is up 15% and our margin is 7.8% which is up 60 basis points from last year.
This is a solid margin improvement for industrial and we're especially pleased to see the expansion come from both core gross margin improvement as well as SG&amp;A leverage.
In addition we had the benefit of stronger supplier incentives in 2014.
So this was a very good year for Industrial.
Our Office Products revenues were $469 million in the quarter or 12% of our revenues and up a very strong 21.7%.
Our operating profit of $35.3 million is up 12% so their operating margin was down 50 basis points to 7.5%.
For the year office revenues of $1.8 billion or 11% of sales are up 10%.
Our operating profit of $134 million is up 9% and our margin is down 10 basis points from last year to the 7.4%.
Again our customer mix shift is imposing our net margin for this business but we're pleased with our overall top line growth.
The Electrical group had sales in the quarter of $177.4 million up 5% of revenue and up 23%.
Operating profit of $15 million is up 23%.
So their margin is basically unchanged at 8.5%.
For the year sales for this group are $739 million or 5% of our revenues and up 30%.
Our operating profit of $65 million is up 36%.
So our margin is up nicely to 8.8% from the prior 8.4% a solid 40 basis points improvement.
So in total our operating profit was up approximately 10% on a 9% sales increase in the fourth quarter and our operating profit margin improved 10 basis points to 7.8.
Operating margin expanded in all four quarters for 2014 and the full year is up 30 basis points to 8.3%.
We are very encouraged by this progress and we remain focused on continued margin expansion in the periods ahead.
We had net interest expense of $5.5 million in the fourth quarter and this is down from $6.1 million last year and for the 12 months interest expense is $24 million which is consistent with the prior year.
Looking ahead for 2015 we currently expect net interest expense to be approximately $22 million to $24 million for the full year.
Our total amortization expense was $10.5 million for the fourth quarter and $37 million for the full year.
Our amortization for both the quarter and the year is up in 2014 due to the acquisition activity across all four of our segments.
For 2015 we expect amortization expense to be in the $40 million to $42 million range.
The other line which reflects our corporate expense was $15.7 million expense for the fourth quarter which is down from the $20.7 million in the prior year.
For the full year our corporate expense is $90 million which is up from $35 million from the prior year or up $67 million before the one-time purchase accounting adjustment that we previously discussed.
The favorable fourth quarter comparison primarily reflects certain yearend adjustments from the prior year which slightly increase our expenses in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the year the increase from 2013 reflects a variety of items including higher overall expenses in areas such as legal and professional insurance and incentive based compensation.
In addition an unfavorable $7 million swing for 2014 associated with our retirement plan valuation adjustment also impacted this line item.
With these and other factors in mind we expect corporate expense line to be in the $85 million to $95 million range again in 2015.
Our tax rate was approximately 37.6% for the fourth quarter up from 36.2% in 2013 as the mix of income by country and relative foreign income tax rate primarily drove the overall higher tax rate.
For the year our 36.4% tax rate is up from the 34.4% in the prior year due to several factors including the favorable rate on the one-time purchase accounting gain in 2013.
In addition our lower retirement plan valuation adjustment and our foreign income and rate mix also contribute to increase in our rate in 2014.
Looking ahead we would expect our tax rate for 2015 to be in the 37% range.
Net income for the quarter was $166 million compared to the $150 million in the fourth quarter or up 10%.
Our EPS of $1.07 compared to the $0.97 reported last year also up 10%.
Now lets discuss a few key balance sheet items.
Our cash at December 31st was $138 million which is down from the $197 million in the prior year.
We continue to use our cash to support the growth initiatives in all of our businesses and we remain comfortable with our cash position.
Our accounts receivable of $1.9 billion at December 31st increased 12% from 2013 on a 9% sales increase for the fourth quarter.
We remain focused on our goal of growing receivables at a rate less than revenue growth and well be working hard to achieve this objective in the periods ahead.
We continue to be satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at the end of the year was $3 billion which was up 3% from the prior year or up just 1% excluding the impact of acquisitions.
Our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels and well remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move forward in 2015.
Accounts payable balance at year end was $2.6 billion or up 13% from the prior year due to the positive impact of our improved payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors.
We remain encouraged by the continued improvement in this area and its positive impact on our working capital in our days and payables.
Our working capital of $2 billion at December 31st is down slightly from the prior year.
Effectively managing our working capital and in particular our accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a very high priority for our company.
Our ongoing efforts with these key accounts have resulted in solid improvement in our working capital position and cash flow for the last several years and our balance sheet remains in excellent condition.\ Our total debt of $755 million at December 31st is down approximately $70 million from the nine months ended in September and is basically unchanged from the prior year.
This represents approximately 19% of total capitalization which is also consistent with the prior year.
Our debt includes two $250 million term notes as well as another $265 million in borrowings under our multi-currency credit facility and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
We continue to generate solid cash flows and in 2014 our cash from operations was approximately $800 million and our free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends was $335 million.
While not at the level of the historical record achieved in 2013 were very pleased with the continued strength of our cash flows.
For 2015 we currently expect cash from operations to be in the $800 million to $850 million and the free cash flow to be approximately $350 million.
We remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for cash is the dividend which weve paid every year since going public in 1948 and have now raised for 59 consecutive years effective with yesterdays Board approval of $2.46 per share annual dividend for 2015.
This represents a 7% increase from the $2.30 per share paid in 2014 and its approximately 53% of our 2014 earnings per share which is within our goal of a 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our businesses strategic acquisitions where appropriate and share repurchases.
Our capital expenditures were $34 million in the fourth quarter down from $40 million in the prior year and for the year our capital spending totaled $108 million which is a slight decrease from the prior year.
The decrease in expenditures for the fourth quarter and the year primarily reflects the timing associated with certain projects.
With this in mind we currently expect our capital expenditure to pick up again in 2015 and we look for our CapEx spending to be in the range of $125 million to $145 million for the full year.
As usual the vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Depreciation and amortization was $40 million in the fourth quarter up from $36 million in the fourth quarter of the prior year and its $148 million for the full year which is up from $134 million in the prior year.
The fourth quarter and full year increases reflect the impact of our capital expenditures as well as acquisitions and we currently depreciation and amortization to be approximately $155 million to $165 million for the full year in 2015.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an important use of our cash and they're integral to the growth plans for the Company.
In 2014 we made seven acquisitions including at least one in each of our four business segments and we expect this new business to contribute annual revenues of approximately $390 million.
We also have remained active in 2015 acquiring JAL associates for the office segment in January and Miller Bearings for the Industrial segment on February 1st that Tom discussed.
Combined we expect these two acquisitions to generate approximately $50 million in annual revenues and to be accretive to our earnings in 2015.
We will continue to seek new acquisitions across all of our businesses to further enhance our prospects for future growth generally targeting new [ph] bolt-on acquisition with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally in 2014 we used our cash to repurchase approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock under the Company's share repurchase program.
Additionally we have purchased another 500 000 shares thus far in 2015 and currently we have 9.1 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
While we have no set pattern for these repurchases we expect to remain active in the program in the periods ahead as we continue to believe that our stock as an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
So that concludes our financial update.
It was a solid fourth quarter and a record year but as always there is opportunity for improvement in the periods ahead.
We look forward to updating you on our future progress when we report again in April and in closing I would also like to thank all of our GPC associates for all their hard work and dedication.
I'll now turn it back over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Paul and Carol for your updates and thanks to both of you and your respective teams for the fine job being done and also for the important role that each of your plays in the overall success of Genuine Parts Company.
So that concludes our prepared remarks on 2014 and in closing I would say that we're pleased with our overall results.
As we look back there were a number of notable achievements.
Sales and earnings rose to record levels in all four of our business segments and this enabled GPC to report a record year with sales going over the $15 billion mark for the first time.
The 9% sales increase follows an 8% improvement in 2013 indicating a good two year progression.
Operating profit improved by 30 basis points with three to four business units contributing nicely.
We kept the balance sheet strong and flexible with debt to total capitalization being 18.8%.
Cash generation although down from last year's historic levels were still strong with cash from operations coming in at $790 million and free cash at $335 million.
And working capital efficiency improved nicely again in 2014.
We returned over $440 million to our shareholders through a combination of share repurchase and dividends and with the 7% dividend increase approved by our Board of Directors yesterday we've now increase the dividend for the 59th consecutive year.
So in summary we're proud of the achievements in 2014 and we're appreciative of the fine job that was done by the GPC associates throughout our organization.
Now in looking ahead we remain confident in the underlying fundamentals for each of our business and all of the GPC businesses have well thought out growth strategies for 2015.
We're a bit less certain however of the overall impact of the strength of the U.S dollar as well as the impact of the global economic and geo-political issues.
But to the best of our ability we have tried to take all of these factors into consideration as we set our expectations for the year ahead.
With that said our initial revenue guidance for total GPC is to be up 3% to 4% for the year but we want to quickly point out that this includes a 2.5% to 3% negative impact from currency over the course of the year.
So you can see that currency will be a significant factor for us in 2015.
Adjusting for this translates to a 6% to 7% comparable revenue increase and this basically reflects core growth.
So our underlying growth expectations remain in line with the core revenue growth that we experienced in 2014.
And looking at by segment for Automotive business which is the segment that will be most impacted by currency our expectation is to be up 2% to 3% for the full year which includes a 4% negative impact from currency.
Adjusting for this currency impact it represents 6% to 7% increase in the underlying revenues for automotive.
In Industrial we anticipate a 5% to 6% increase and this accounts for 1% negative currency exchange.
So before the impact of currency our Industrial sales should also increase 6% to 7%.
Office Products should be up 6% to 7% with no material currency impact and we anticipate the Electrical segment to be up 5% to 6% also with no material currency impact.
On the earnings side our initial guidance would be for EPS to come in between $4.70 to $4.80 and included in this is approximately $0.15 per share that's due to unfavorable exchange rates and the related increase and the tax rate which Carol referenced in her remarks.
Stated another way before the impact of currency and the tax differences we're guiding to a range of $4.85 to $4.95 which will be up 5% to 7% on a comparative basis.
So that will conclude our prepared comments and at this point we'd like to turn the call back to Nicole to take your questions.
Nicole? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Just start by asking you briefly about Automotive margins.
You alluded to the fact that they declined.
I don't think you gave a lot of color as to why they were down as sharply as they were with very strong revenue growth.
So any color you could give there would be terrific.
Yes Matt I'll speak to the fourth quarter margins and then kind of talk about it on a full year basis.
So our gross margin was down a bit in the fourth quarter within Automotive and we talked about customer and product mix and we offset [ph] some of the foreign currency pressures and some of that flows through to the gross margins as well.
And in addition our SG&amp;A wasn't as favorable in the Automotive segment in the quarter.
So what I'd point to is -- what we are really pleased to show is that for the full year our Automotive margins were up 10 basis points and I would tell you that that primarily came from SG&amp;A leverage.
I think all my follow-ups are probably going to relate to this question.
First of all if you think about FX and you think about translational impact versus transactional impact it seems like you had some transactional friction in there.
And if you could just tell us how big -- whether I'm right and how big a hit that was to you? In other words paying in dollars and selling in foreign currency? Yes we're not going to quantify what the transactional impact is but just to say that it was somewhat of a headwind in our margins in Automotive in the fourth quarter.
The currency was a little worse than what was anticipated and you certainly sell that on the top line.
You sell that a bit and then margins as well.
This is Tom.
I might also add -- perhaps this might be helpful to you and others on the call and that is that our core NAPA business the operating margins were strong and improved more than our overall automotive margins.
The biggest contributor in the quarter and frankly even on a year-to-date was the currency exchange and if you recall back to my guidance comments a few moments earlier we said that automotive was going to be impacted by our estimate 4 points on the revenue side in 2015.
So what's happening outside of U.S.
with the strength of the dollar is causing us to see the impact in a pretty heavy way.
Totally understood.
Just two more very quick ones that follow from that initial response.
As we think about -- was incentive compensation part of the equation? You clearly had a very good year in Automotive from a revenue perspective.
Was there any catch-up for bonuses in fourth quarter? Absolutely.
I'd point out again while we're pleased to see the great results in Automotive the extent that we had on the top line that flowed through on the incentives.
So we had less of a favorable year if you will in the fourth quarter as it related to that incentive compensation.
You're exactly right.
And then my final question relates to mix.
So I know you spoke about customer mix and product mix really across the collective enterprise.
If you think about Automotive obviously the standout number was DIY or retail.
Was that a part of the mix impact on margin? And if so was that the innate mix -- the innate characteristic of that business or what you had to do to capture that business? I guess I would say on the quarterly margins again for automotive when we talk about the customer and product mix the examples that they would point to our major account business and the AutoCare business as those businesses continue to have the strong growth.
And when we talk about that being in a lower margin also Paul called out a couple of product categories one of them being T&amp;E batteries our heavy duty products that's sort of the product and customer mix that we're talking about.
Certainly you had something that was more favorable on the retail side that those are unfavorable on the other side on the commercial side.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Tom you were able to outline the expected EPS impact for 2015 of roughly $0.15.
Do you guys have a number for the fourth quarter? Is there a reason you cant give a little bit more detail on that? I dont think we have that number here You can follow up with Sid and he might be able to give you a little more input on that Scott.
Okay all right.
And then I guess a little bit follow up on Matts question.
You had retail sales outpace commercial in the quarter.
I know its on lower base but I guess -- why do you think you saw that shift? Thats little bit more pronounced than what you guys have typically seen given your commercial focus number one.
Number two is that a trend that youre expecting to continue for the next couple of quarters there? Scott this is Paul.
Our retail business we did have a good fourth quarter and we had a good year.
Our overall retail business was high single digit year-over-year and that scenario that we intend to continue to focus on.
Now I do want to point out that were not going to forget where we came from and thats our commercial wholesale business and that's still -- thats our bread and butter.
But if we can pick up some share on the retail side and as I mentioned Scott its with some of the very basic blocking tackling in relation some of the things our team is doing on the store hour side staffing side just compliance side with our planogram.
So were very pleased with our retail business and honestly if we can continue to grow that mid to high single digit in 15 well be pleased.
Got it.
And how much would you attribute -- I know this always tricky to figure out.
Historically weve seen a little bit bigger impact from changing gas prices on the retail side and the commercial side.
A do you think thats an accurate statement and B is there any way to estimate that? Ill give a shot Scott.
I think -- listen the consumer has got I think I read recently about $70 more disposable income in their pocket.
Does that help our retail business? I think absolutely it does and how it impacts the commercial business? Well if you look at whats happened with Miles Driven and the spike that we saw in late Q3 early Q4 in Miles Driven which are at some of the highest levels weve seen in a number of years thats going to drive -- obviously that drives our miles driven number up and thats going to increase our parts business overall.
And Scott I might add just one additional comment to Pauls and that is if we look at some of the discretionary items I think we saw a little bit of an uptick in the flow through of those which perhaps is attributable to more discretionary income.
And that will be mostly on the retail side where you saw that tone? Yes it would be.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Becks from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Just a follow up on that.
Was the decline in gas prices if you look at the 7% comps in the fourth quarter it was roughly 200 basis point improvement on the two year.
Anyway to sort of get a sense of how much of that is gas versus weather versus some of the internal company initiatives that you guys have been delivering upon.
Mark I dont think we can get that granular.
There are just so many variables its really hard to try to pinpoint specifically which one is impacting it we would just say that with the lower gas prices it is positive and a significant positive for the automotive aftermarket in our opinion.
Okay.
And then on the gross margin side just trying to get an idea of the direction going forward in 4Q more specifically.
Just curious; why was it so severe in the fourth quarter? Was it simply a compare issue a LIFO? Was there any one-time things in there? And how do you feel about the ability for gross margin expansion in 2015? If you look -- I might take a stab at it and then Carol will add more color.
But if you look first of all at Q4 last year it was clearly the strongest gross margin quarter of the year and we were going up against a tough comparison there.
As we think about gross margin across the enterprise in 15 all of our businesses have gross margin improvement initiatives and our expectation is that we will show some gross profit improvement over the course of 2015.
Yet another thing I would add the prior year fourth quarter we had more of a one-time non-recurring adjustment that didnt repeat in this year fourth quarter which we knew all along because we've been staying around 30%.
And the second thing I would say is if you think about the volume incentives and our inventory was only up 3% for the year and our team has done a very good job of keeping that inventory down certainly a good bit than the sales increase.
So to the extent that we have volume incentives and those wouldnt have been necessarily at the same level that was some pressure on gross margins.
And also the Office Products margins were down 10 basis points for the year and that was primarily attributed to gross margin.
So we  again we were in line with where we were for the full year at 30% and I think thats a reasonable assumption going forward.
Tom you alluded to some gross margin initiative.
To the extent on a call on a public forum you'd be willing to can you share some of the specific margin improvement initiative that you guys are working on? Not we wouldnt want to get into the specifics.
I would just say that were looking at both sides of the equation and you've got buy side and sell side initiatives and we're working on both of those.
And then one just quick follow up then lastly.
On the guidance if you look at Automotive you're expecting up 2% to 3% in the year which is a little bit below what you delivered in fourth quarter.
If we think about automotive margin profile in 2014 assuming you guys hit your sales guidance what does that suggest for automotive margins in 2015? Well I'd first respond to that by just reminding that we're looking for our core Automotive to be up 6% to 7% before the impact of exchange rates and we think that all of our businesses can and should show operating margin improvement over the course of 2015.
Hello? Nicole we might need to go on.
We didnt get anything come through on John Lovallo's call.
We might need to go to the next caller.
Hey it's Brian.
Few things here.
One within Motion any impact from decline in price of oil in the quarter particularly in some of those Western Canada markets you got into? Yes Brian this is Tom.
Certainly we're going to be impacted like anybody else that services the oil patch.
I would say that for us its a low single digit percentage of our total volumes.
So while it's significant in terms of gross dollars it's not as big as it might be for some others.
Low single digit of motion.
Of motion.
And the other thing I would say is that importantly we are going to see a near term decline in demand coming out of those areas.
But the segment is not going to go away.
It's going contract but it's still going to be there.
And potentially an offset for Motion is the lower fuel prices that Paul referenced that give the consumer a more discretionary income and as that money starts to get spent it will flow through other segments of the economy which could and should impact in a positive way some of the other manufacturing customers that Motion deals with.
So near term we think it will be a bit of a headwind.
Medium and longer term we think it will probably balance out.
Just thinking about the fourth shut down.
Have you guys seen any impact on some of your vendors been able to get product to you? We look at it a couple of ways; one with what's happening with some of our vendors; and two what's happening on some of the direct importing that we're doing.
And what we've seen is I think most people are doing a pretty good job of working through the situation.
I know in our own case we've had to divert shipments to other ports.
So it has not had a significant impact on service levels but it has added to our lead times but it's something we're watching pretty carefully.
All right and as I'm thinking about the guidance up 4% that implies roughly speaking at the high end $15 billion revenue for 2015.
What impact do you factor acquisitions for that? Is that the $390 million you referenced before? No in that would be the acquisitions that were completed in 2014.
But we have not factored in anything for any future acquisitions.
We do have the Miller Bearing acquisition in there that we mentioned promotion $40 million on an annualized run rate.
But anything that happens subsequent is not factored in there.
And what's the non-comp revenue number that you're implying with that $16 billion.
When you say non-comp? Acquired business that you expect to flow through is it upwards of 250 million? We dont have that here Brian.
We can have Sid get back to you.
My question is around NAPA.
You mentioned that core NAPA operating margins were strong and improved overall auto margins in 4Q.
Just to clarify the NAPA U.S margins increased year over year in the fourth quarter and how did that compare to recent quarters trends? The margins improved on a quarterly basis and for the full year.
So the NAPA organization performed quite well for us this year again.
Got it.
So the entire drag was really driven by business outside of the U.S.
Thats right.
And then.
And Seth just one other thing.
That was due to a currency exchange.
As Paul referenced we had local currency growth and improvement in these other businesses but when we translated we lost all of that.
Got it.
Understood.
Clearly you guys put up some good core numbers for NAPA U.S.
Do you have a sense of where you might be taking share from? Hey Seth this is Paul.
That's always difficult to tell especially as you look at some of the good numbers our publically traded competitors put out but I would have to think that if we're taking a bit of share it may be from of the smaller regional players that are out there that perhaps are not growing quite at the level that we are and perhaps some of our publically traded competitors.
Okay.
And what about the independent side of the business in the U.S.? How did that perform and are you acquiring more independents for that business? Independent the thing we liked about the performance honestly is how balanced it was.
Both our Company store group and our independent group grew at comparable levels.
And to answer the second part of that question Seth in terms of -- continue to expand our independent business and to our convert other independent owners out there absolutely that's core to our business and something that our team is very focused on every year.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Higginbotham from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Question about a recent transaction in the Automotive space.
Uni-Select recently sold their US Automotive business to Icahn.
And so I'm wondering if you have any thoughts about what the new owner of that business might do with that asset; how you view that as either an opportunity maybe to pick up jobber stores or a threat competitively.
And actually on that front when you look at other wholesale independent versus owned store business models you guys have been a clear standout in terms of consistently executing that business where others have struggled.
What would you point to as kind of your secret sauce to success? And what is and would be difficult for others to replicate? Hey Robert this is Paul.
I'll take the first part of that question and I know you're referring to Uni-Select U.S.
and the acquisition by Carl Icahn.
Very early on in the process and honestly we probably know about as much as you do at this point.
It does not change the competitive landscape.
So Uni-Select U.S.
I think I read where they were ranked as the No.
5 player in the U.S.
So that doesn't really change the competitive landscape at all for us at this point.
It may open up some opportunities and I would say that in terms of other Icahn owned business which of course is Federal-Mogul they are a long time supplier to NAPA they are a long time supplier to our industry and they are a good supplier.
So for us at this point until we learn a whole lot more Robert it's essentially business as usual.
The second part of your question then as it relates to the secret sauce I dont know that we have any secret sauce.
We have a good strategy each year.
We tend to stick to our core.
We have a very good group of independent entrepreneurial owners in the marketplace who are very good at what they do and we provide them what we think is best in class training and programs to enable them to compete everyday out there on the street.
And so if there is any secret sauce that may be the takeaway.
Okay.
And switching gears to Office Products how should we think about the potential impact of the pending Staples/Office Depot merger? Could you help us at least maybe size what you see the opportunity -- and risk on the flip side of that of being to maybe gaining some first call volumes; and again on the flipside maybe potentially losing some first call volumes.
And then how to think about just overall margin trends as presumably that bigger entity will push you on price.
Robert I'll take a stab at that and I start by saying that these are both good companies and this transaction seems to make good strategic sense for each of them.
As you probably know they're both fine customers to S.P.
Richards who are first call with Office Depot; and we've got a significant second call position with Staples.
From the published reports and that's all we can go on but from the published reports that we've seen the transaction is probably going to be consummated toward the later part of the year.
So between now and then it's business as usual and we're going to continue to provide the best service that we can provide and the best support that we can provide to both entities and certainly post transaction will hope to be the first call -- a wholesale provider to the new entity.
As far as trying to size it we wouldnt want to get into that here.
But were optimistic about whats going to happen in the future.
We think there is a lot of upside there potentially.
Your next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan from BB&amp;T.
Your line is open.
Most have been hit but could we talk a little bit about the Mexico initiative? I think you were ramping that up in the fall of 2014; and maybe some early signs on success there? Yes absolutely Bret we did launch our NAPA Mexico initiative back in October.
We opened our distribution center and a number of company owned stores in the marketplace.
Its very early on.
Were pleased with the progress that were making and its going to be a long initiative for us for sure.
But in the early days were pleased with the progress that our team is making down there.
Okay.
And then one follow-up question on an earlier topic and you're picking up independent distributors and clearly there's been some transition out there on the Carquest side.
Could you give us any color? Have you added -- and the numbers that you have added to Carquest ex-Carquest distributors? This is Tom Bret.
I think the way wed like to answer that is that were pleased with the progress weve made to-date.
We continue to see opportunities and we think well continue to make progress but we would not want to disclose the absolute numbers.
Your last question comes from the line of Greg Melich from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
I had one follow-up on the margin progression on the guidance and then a little more mechanical question for Carol.
First it sounds like although margins were down only because of FX in the fourth quarter and so when you look at your guidance for this year when you say that you expect the margins to be up is that in core in Auto? Or do you think that once you bring in the FX they could actually be down a bit at least for the first few quarters? I guess our gross margin guidance that we would be giving would be in total since we dont really get into it by segment.
And I think our around 30% guidance assumes probably flattish in all of our businesses.
I think the operating margin improvement that weve talked about in each of our segments and weve talked about the 10 to 20 basis point improvement and coming off of this year and have 30 basis points weve been really pleased to see that that weve got certainly some headwinds going into 2015.
That's primarily going to probably more come through the SG&amp;A line more so than the growth margin line.
And then Carol on working capital given the nice improvement that you saw if Im not mistaken the cash from ops actually came in a little bit lower than the guidance you had earlier in the year.
I think it was 900 million and ended up being about 100 million less than that.
What was driving that? Was that the receivable growth that you talked about? And could you help explain a little bit what your business has been and how that will normalize? Thanks.
Yes.
So youre right.
We were a little bit short what we had anticipated from our cash from activities and I would tell you the two primary areas for accounts receivable that you mentioned and that's primarily in the Automotive and Office Sector and again with the stronger revenue growth in what we had on some of that is we have additional terms.
I would tell that our day sales outstanding we look at it over the course of the couple years.
In the past four years thats been flat.
So weve been pleased to see that.
The second factor in working capital was accounts payable which you mentioned and it goes to a little bit earlier when I mentioned our team really did a good job in the inventory area.
So we had in a couple of the segments and it was certainly Industrial and Electrical that slowed down their purchases if you will.
So you didnt see as much on the accounts payable side.
And then the other thing is on automotive which is certainly where we see a lot of the improved terms we have anniversaried some of those.
And it was largely a timing thing that we didnt have as much coming into the quarter.
So were looking for improvement on those lines.
And again it was a strong number but not quite where we thought it would be.
Would it be fair to sum up that last years earlier goal the $900 million included a bigger working capital benefit? Instead now youre going to see that benefit over a few years and thats why now were using $800 million to $850 million.
Is that a fair summary? I think thats a fair summary yes.
And I think that and we dont talk about it as much is our [indiscernible] to inventory was 84% this year and 77% last year.
So its improvement each year but I think it spread out over little longer period.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
We want to thank you for your participation today and your support of Genuine Parts Company and we look forward to reporting back to you in April after our first quarter numbers.
Thank you.
This concludes todays call.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sid Jones Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts' first quarter 2015 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the Company and its businesses.
The Companys actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the Companys latest SEC filings.
The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Well begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid.
And I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President; and Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are both on the call as well and each of us has a few prepared remarks and once completed well look forward to answering any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our first quarter 2015 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows that sales for the quarter were $3.736 billion which was up 3% net income was $161 million which was up 2% and earnings per share were $1.05 this year compared to $1.02 in the first quarter last year and the EPS increase was 3%.
And although these sales and earnings growth rates have moderated from the results in recent quarters they are pretty much in line with what we anticipated for the quarter and as such we feel that we came through the quarter in pretty good shape.
We knew at the beginning of the quarter that we were facing tough comparisons with first quarter 2014 revenues up 13% and earnings per share up 10%.
Additionally we felt that the strength of the U.S.
dollar would be a significant headwind for us and as it turned out this cost us 2% on the revenue line in the quarter and $0.02 in earnings per share.
And then weather had a bit of a negative impact as that did a deceleration in the oil and gas segment of the economy.
So all in we feel that our teams did a pretty good job in navigating their way through the quarter and we remain optimistic about the remainder of the year.
Turning to the sales results by segment Ill make few comments on each of the three non-automotive businesses and then Paul will give you an update on the automotive operations.
Starting with Office Products S.P.
Richards turned in another strong quarter at plus 17%.
Acquisitions completed in 2014 certainly helped as did the enhanced first call relationship with one of the mega companies.
But importantly the underlying business performed well also with solid growth in both the mega and independent reseller channels.
The e-commerce an alternate channel customers performed well in the quarter as well.
From a product category perspective all four categories technology facility and breakroom furniture and core office products each showed nice growth in the quarter and we are pleased with the balance and the composition of our office products growth both from a customer and a product category perspective.
And we feel that the office products team has positioned to turn in the solid performance over the remainder of the year.
Moving on the Industrial segment Motion industries ended the quarter up 3%.
11 of our top 12 product categories generated positive results in the quarter and nine of our top 12 customer groups grew nicely in the quarter.
Our strongest results came from customers in automotive coal aggregate and cements lumber and wood products and rubber and plastic products.
And this follows a relative strength of each of these segments in the overall economy.
We had weaker results in oil and gas pulp and paper and steel again mirroring what we see happening in the overall economy.
As we look ahead were mindful of the deceleration that we have seen in the industrial production; capacity utilization and Purchasing Managers Index over the course of the first quarter and each of these have been reliable leading demand indicators for our industrial business so were watching them closely but despite the modest deceleration its important to note that each remain at historically healthy levels.
And at this point our industrial team remains optimistic about the reminder of the year.
Perhaps partly driven by the fact that our pending project work is up substantially over the same period last year which is encouraging.
Moving on to the third of our non-automotive businesses EIS was up 1% in the quarter.
Some of the same factors that impacted our industrial business were headwinds for the electrical segment as well.
Things like the deceleration in the oil and gas customer segment the strength of the dollar impact on export related customers lower defense spending this year versus last and the lower copper pricing again this year.
To one degree or another each of these will continue to be factors in the quarters ahead.
However we were encouraged to close out the first quarter with a solid performance in March.
And then our team feels that theyre starting to build a bit of momentum as we enter Q2.
Additionally they completed the acquisition of Connect-Air into the wire and cable segment as of April 1st and this will add about $28 million to their annual revenue.
So thats a quick overview of the non-automotive business.
Ill now ask Paul to comment on the automotive segments.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and let me add my welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Im pleased to join here today and have an opportunity to provide you an update on the first quarter performance of our automotive business.
For the quarter ending March 31st our global automotive business sales were flat year-over-year.
This performance consists of approximately 3% core automotive growth.
The benefit of just less than 1% from recent acquisitions which are offsets by approximately 4% of currency adjustments.
The currency adjustment was in line with our expectations for the quarter.
When reviewing our quarterly performance we knew going into the quarter we were up again strong comps from one year ago and part driven by the extreme cold winter weather.
Unfortunately Mother Nature did not cooperate this past winter.
We saw a little benefit as a result of the winter temps and in fact a heavy snow and ice experienced in places like Boston and a good portion of the Northeast create challenges for our operations and our customers.
In addition like many businesses we felt the impact of the West Coast port slowdown and the effect that had on our overall supply chain.
During the first quarter we saw our U.S.
team posted 3% sales increase while our international businesses including Canada Mexico Australia and New Zealand grew mid single-digits in their local currencies.
Overall were pleased to see steady growth in all of our markets and expect to see steady growth for the balance of 2015.
In the U.S.
all regions within country are positive contributing to our revenue growth with the exception for the  few of the more energy dependent areas of the country.
As we saw in the fourth quarter we experienced continued strength in the Atlantic division Midwest and western divisions.
In addition our southern division had a solid first quarter.
So now lets turn to our same-store sales numbers.
Our U.S.
company owned store group grew comp same store sales in the first quarter by 3%.
This 3% is on top of an 8% increase generated in the strong first quarter of 2014 which gives up a two year stack of 11%.
This performance was not unexpected due to the tough comps we were up against but we would also like to point out that we expect this number to improve as the year progresses.
A 3% sales increase in first quarter was driven by a combination of solid sales on both our commercial wholesale side of the business and on our retail side of the business.
So lets start with our retail business.
As mentioned in previous calls we have put a renewed focus on this segment of our business.
Were pleased to report these initiatives are continuing to pay dividends.
Our team did a good job in the quarter driving a 6% increase on our retail business which was on top of a 9% increase one year ago.
Retail basic such as extended store hours proper staffing dedicated retail associates planogram compliance and increased training have all had a hand on our recent improved performance.
We continue to push for increases with both the size of our average ticket and the number of tickets flowing through our stores.
In the first quarter we experienced an increase in our average retail ticket and an increase in the number of retail tickets.
This performance was consistent with our fourth quarter metrics so its encouraging to see our average ticket in whole.
We would like to complement both our retail team at headquarters as well as all of our associates on our stores for stepping up and embracing our retail initiatives.
We still have a great deal of heavy lifting yet to do but its clear were on the right track and the opportunity for growth is there.
So now lets turn to our commercial wholesale business or our Do It For Me segment.
This segment turned in a 3% increase in the first quarter.
Highlights for the quarter include solid performances by our two major wholesale initiatives NAPA AutoCare and Major Accounts.
Starting with our Major Account business this strategic segment delivered its seventh consecutive quarter of low double-digit growth a terrific accomplishment by our entire Major Accounts team.
And our NAPA AutoCare centers now totaling over 15 500 nationwide posted strong single-digit sales increases in the quarter.
Wed also like to report on our fleet business after reporting a solid increase in this important segment in 2014 we posted a mid single-digit increase in the first quarter of 2015.
So were pleased to see the continued growth in this important segment of our business.
We can also report solid trends in our average wholesale ticket value which registered positive growth in the month with no inflation support.
We also saw positive year-over-year growth in the average number of tickets flowing through our stores.
Now lets take a look at few of our key product categories and review some of the trends we experienced in the first quarter.
We are pleased to report continued growth in both our Bright business as well as our tool and equipment business.
In addition our NAPA Import Parts business was up low double-digits once again this quarter.
One additional product category worth noting is our all important Electrical business including our rotating and electrical product lines and our battery business.
Despite double-digit growth in the month of March we were up just over 1% for the quarter.
Its a clear illustration of the strong prior year comps that we faced in the January and February timeframe.
It is worth noting that we experienced supply chain interruptions with one of our key under car lines in the first quarter that has now carried over into the second quarter.
This interruption had an impact on our operations in our customers business in the quarter.
We are diligently working toward a solution anticipate improvement in the weeks ahead.
Despite the slower start to the year we continued to be encouraged by the automotive aftermarket fundamentals.
The average age of the fleet remains at excess of 11 years the size of the fleet continues to grow and not surprising the all-important miles driven metric recorded its largest growth in the past five years.
As we reported last quarter miles driven up 1.4% through 11 months in 2014.
Then in the month of December miles driven increased by 5% and most recent figures were January show 4.9% gain.
This growth is a direct result of the lowest fuel prices in almost a decade and both well for future demand.
So in summary our first quarter was pretty much in line with where we felt we would end up.
Foreign currency as expected was the significant headwind and we expect this to continue for several more quarters.
That said our business in our international markets continues to perform well in their respective local currencies.
And as expected we experience some softness in areas of the U.S.
that are more energy dependent.
And lastly we knew going into the new year that we would be up against strong comps in the first quarter and we would need to weather the storm.
We feel we did just that.
We are encouraged with our same store sales and we remain optimistic with the outlook for the balance of the year.
So in closing we want to thank our management teams in North America as well as our team on the ground in Australasia for a solid first quarter for the GPC automotive business.
So that completes our overview of the GPC automotive business and at this time Ill hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul and good morning.
Well begin this morning with a review of our income statement and the segment information and then well review some balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back up to wrap it up and then well take your questions.
As Tom mentioned our total revenues at $3.7 billion for the first quarter an increase of 3.1% consisted of our underlying sales growth of 3.8% and a 1.5% increase from acquisitions.
These items were offset by a strong currency headwind at 2.2%.
Our gross profit for the first quarter was 29.8% and this compares to 29.9% growth margin last year.
This was in line with our expectations for a relatively constant gross margin in 2015 as the margin initiatives across all of our businesses are intended to offset the ongoing customer and product mix shifts that continue to pressure our gross margins.
With that said theres slight decline in our first quarter gross margin directly related to the customer mix shift that we are facing in our Office Product segments.
Looking ahead we continue to expect a relatively constant gross margin in 2015 that this area has our full attention and were committed to making progress towards an enhanced gross margin for the long-term.
Our gross margin initiatives are also critical in offsetting the low inflationary environment that has persisted across all of our businesses for several years now especially in automotive.
Our supplier pricing thus far in 2015 indicates that we should expect more of the same lack of deflation again this year.
Our cumulative supplier price increases through March were down four tenths of 1% in Automotive up four tenths of 1% in Industrial up six tenths of 1% in Office Products and up two tenths of 1% in Electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A our total expenses were $861 million in the first quarter which is up 2.5% from 2014.
This represents 23.1% of sales which has slightly improved from the 23.2% last year and encouraging giving the underlying sales growth of approximately 4% for the quarter.
We attribute this progress to the benefits of our ongoing emphasis on effective cost management and we expect this is our continued progress on our SG&amp;A line in the periods ahead.
Now well review our results by segments.
Our Automotive revenue for the first quarter was $1.9 billion which was flat with the prior year and 51% of total sales.
Our operating profit of $151 million is up four tenths of 1% so their margin held constant with 2014 at 7.9%.
This is in line that what we would expect on a 3% compared to sales increase.
Our Industrial sales were $1.18 billion in the first quarter which is up 3.4% for 2014 and 31% of our total revenues.
Our operating profit of $88 million is up 6% and our operating margin increased 10 basis point to 7.4%.
Were pleased to excuse me to see the expanded margin given at 3% sales increase and we would add that this was driven by slightly improved gross margin for the quarter as well as an improvement in their SG&amp;A.
Our Office Products revenues were $490.3 million in the quarter up a strong 17% and represents 13% of our total revenues.
Our operating profit of $36.5 million is up 8% so their margin was down 70 basis points to 7.4% as the customer mix shift pressuring our gross margins continues to impact the net margin for this business.
Electrical/Electronic Group have sales in the first quarter of a $182 million 1% increase and 5% of our total revenue.
Our operating profit at $15.5 million is down four tenths of 1% so the margin was down 10 basis points that remain strong at 8.5%.
So in total our operating profit increased 3% in the first quarter which is in line with our sales growth.
Our operating profit margin held constant with last year at 7.8% and this follows the 30 basis point expansion in our operating margin for the full year in 2014 and we remain focused on our initiatives to show further expansion in the periods ahead.
We had net interest expense of $5.3 million in the first quarter which is down from $6.2 million last year.
We continue to expect net interest expense of approximately $22 million to $24 million for the full year.
Our total amortization expense was $8.6 million for the first quarter which is fairly consistent with last year.
We currently estimate $40 million to $42 million in total amortization expense for the full year.
The other line which reflects our corporate expense was $25 million expense for the first quarter which is up slightly from the $23.6 million in the first quarter of last year.
We continue to expect corporate expense to be in the $85 million to $95 million range for the full year.
Our tax rate was approximately 36% for the first quarter which is up slightly from the 35.5% last year.
For the full year we now expect our tax rates trend in the 36.7% to 37.0% range.
Our net income for the quarter of $161 million compared to the $157.5 million or 2% improvement and as Tom mentioned our EPS was $1.05 compared to last years $1.02.
Now well discuss a few key balance sheet items.
Our cash at March 31 was $166 million an increase from approximate $103 million at March of last year.
We continue to use our cash to support the growth initiatives in each of our businesses and we remain comfortable with our cash position.
Our accounts receivable of $2.0 billion at March 31 increased 8% from the prior year on a 4% core sales increase for the first quarter.
We remain focused on our goal of growing receivables at a rate less than revenue growth and well be working hard to achieve this objective in the periods ahead.
We continue to be satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at the end of the quarter was $3.0 billion which is up approximately 1% from March of 2014 and actually down 1% from year end.
Our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels and well remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels in the periods ahead.
Our accounts payable balance at March 31 is $2.6 billion up 12% from the prior year due to the positive impact of improved payment terms and other payable initiatives established with our vendors.
We shall continue the improvement in this area for several periods now and we are encouraged by positive impact on our working capital and our days and payables.
Our working capital of $1.9 billion is down 3% from last year and effectively managing our working capital and in particular our accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable is a very high priority for our company.
Our ongoing efforts with these key accounts have resulted in solid improvement in our working capital position and cash flow for the last several years and our balance sheet remains in excellent condition at March 31 of 2015.
Our total debt of $894 million at March 31 is basically unchanged from the prior year and this represents approximately 22% of our total capitalization.
Our total debt includes two $250 million term notes as well as another $394 million in borrowings under our multi-currency syndicated credit facility agreement.
We're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
We continue to generate solid cash flows and were well positioned for the balance of 2015.
For the full year we expect cash from operations to be in the $800 million to $850 million range and free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends to be in the $350 million.
We remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for cash is the dividend which we paid every year since going public in 1948 and have now raised for 59 consecutive years a record that continues to distinguish genuine parts from other companies.
The 2015 annual dividend of $2.46 per share represents a 7% increase from the $2.30 per share paid in 2014 and its approximately 53% of our 2014 earnings per share which is well within our goal of a payout of 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our goal would be to maintain this level of payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our core businesses strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures was $16 million for the first quarter which is down slightly from $18 million in the first quarter of 2014.
We expect our expenditures to increase as the year progress and we continue to look for CapEx spending to be in the range of $125 million to $145 million for the full year.
As usual the vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Our depreciation and amortization was $36 million in the first quarter and looking ahead we are projecting depreciation and amortization to be approximately $155 million to $165 million for the full year in 2015.
Our strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and an important use of our cash for us and theyre integral to the growth plans for our company.
As reported on our year end call in February we made a few small acquisitions in the Industrial and Office business early in the first quarter and these are performing well for us.
Effective April 1 we close on two additional acquisitions one for Automotive and one for Electrical and we expect these two operations to contribute annual revenues of $35 million or approximately $25 million in 2015.
We will continue to seek new acquisitions across our business segments to further enhance our prospect for future growth generally targeting those bolt-on types of acquisitions with annual revenues in the $25 million to $125 million range.
Finally during the quarter we used our cash to repurchase approximately 870 000 shares of our common stock under the Companys share repurchase program.
Today we have 8.7 million shares authorized and available for purchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we expect to remain active in the program in the periods ahead as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
So that concludes our financial update on the first quarter of 2015 overall solid results and in line with our expectations that were pleased with the first three months of the year and encouraged by the opportunities before us.
We look forward to updating you on our future progress when we report again in July.
And in closing Id like to thank all of our GPC associates for the outstanding job that they do each day.
That concludes our financial review and now Ill turn it back over to Tom.
Thank you Carol and thanks to you and Paul for your comprehensive updates.
So that will conclude our prepared comments on the quarter and as mentioned earlier we ended the quarter pretty much inline with what we thought we would be.
With that in mind we would like to reaffirm our full year guidance that we provided back in February and just as a reminder at that time we guided for Automotive revenues to be up 2% to 3% which includes an estimated 4% negative impact from currency exchange.
We guided Office Products to up 6% to 7% Industrial and Electrical to each be up 5% to 6%.
And based up on the current trends and the external indices as well as softness in the energy and export sectors our current bias will be towards the bottom end of the range for both Industrial and Electrical.
Putting all of this together would give us an overall GPC sales increase of 3% to 4% which includes 2.5% to 3% negative currency impact.
On the earning side our guidance remains for EPS to come in between $4.77 and $4.80.
And as a reminder this includes approximately $0.15 per share impact from unfavorable exchange rates and the related increase in our overall tax rate.
So that would conclude our remarks at this point and well turn the call back to Jackie to take your questions.
Jackie? [Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
Good morning Seth.
Good morning.
My question is on the Auto business Im trying to get a sense of your view of the slowdown in the comp sequentially from the last quarter given the miles driven strength.
Do you think its industry wide phenomena or do you think its only a supply chains issues are the primary factor hurting you this quarter? So Seth Ive taken and may be in a couple of buckets.
Certainly we are up against some really tough comps we knew that going in.
First quarter was our strongest of the year last year.
So Id certainly say that had an impact.
Two Id say some of the key product line disruptions that we experienced along with the West Coast port issues cost us in the first quarter.
And I dont think that will be strictly relegated to GPC and NAPA I think that will be felt by others as well.
The energy sector had an impact for sure Seth.
Some of the  certainly Texas which is what everybody thinks about when they think about the energy sector but parts of the Mountain Division for us as well as some parts of Canada certainly Alberta Canada were impacted as well.
And then last but not least the one that we always chat about and thats the weather the weather was of no help at all to us we dont think in the first quarter.
Thats helpful.
So do you quantify those three buckets in a Asia perform [ph]? I dont think were prepared to do that at this point of time Seth.
All right no problem.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
I want a follow-up a little bit about the Auto trends and tie it through to margins and working capital.
Given that retail is driving a lot of growth I would sort of expect gross margin that maybe be better given that theres basically the deflation in the buy.
Could you help us understand why margins are not expanding in Auto? And then the tide in the working capital there were this increase in payables.
Should we assume that this is a good run rate is there a steady point of an AP ratio that you target Carol? Yeah I guess Ill start with the margin first.
So we mentioned that decline in gross margin on a consolidated basis was solely related to the Office Products decline that you saw in the operating margin.
So that would lead you to assume and while we dont disclose it separately is that the non-office businesses were either flat to up slightly.
So we actually were pleased with the automotive gross margins this quarter and the progress weve made.
So I would say that a lot of our initiatives and some of the impact that we talked about earlier with transactional FX headwinds that we had in Q4.
Our teams did a lot of hard work in that area.
We continue to have the usual customer product mix but I think a lot of our initiatives are helping us to show that improvement.
But honestly where we  when we only have a 3% sales increase its hard for us to get that operating margin up 10 or 20 basis points.
So we would still look for that on balance for the rest of the year.
But I think we were pleased to keep the margins flat in automotive in light of what the comp sales increase was.
And then the second question on the working capital we were pleased with the progress that we made.
And I think when were looking at the rest of the year; we would say that there would be improvement.
Weve reiterated our guidance on the working capital and the cash flow but I think we saw some better results coming through on the first quarter.
So if we can continue to do the job with payables and inventory I think youll see a continued improvement.
And then on the receivables is there any particular thing driving the growth with a certain category or new terms of certain customers? Really thats been specific.
I think again as we look towards what were seeing in receivables we just try to make sure that again if its customers are certain programs that were getting the corresponding offset on the payable side with our vendors.
And Greg I would And then last one if I could and then Ill let someone else.
Yes Greg I would just add to that.
I think we would expect that the receivables will improve sequentially and be more in line with the overall revenue growth as we get towards the second half of the year.
And then Tom you mentioned if theres one area where you think its on the lower end and its Industrial and Electrical.
Could you point us to why specifically that is other than just may be energy a little bit is there industrial production or other things that you think look a little softer? Thank you.
Yes in fact we do think oil and gas will continue to be a headwind.
And thats got a fairly long tail its not just the number of rigs that are running.
When you think about that it also extends into steel for instance Ill referenced steel in my comments earlier none of those pipes are being purchased to go down in the wells and extends into some of the other customer segments additionally.
So that would be one thing.
And then with industrial production and capacity utilization and the Purchasing Managers Index we did see some moderation.
As the quarter progressed we were pleased to see a slight uptick in the March industrial production from the revised February industrial production but we just want to be a bit cautious.
And as I mentioned in my comments we do track to the best of our ability what we would refer to as project work.
And we are a bit encouraged by the fact that both the number of projects in-house and the dollar amount are showing nice increases and hopefully they worked their way through the income statement in the months ahead.
Great thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thanks Greg.
Our next question comes from the line of Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Hi this is actually Chris Bottiglieri on for Aram Rubinson.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Good morning.
I just had a quick question on the Automotive business can you give us a update on the independence if youre seeing any kind of pick up in [indiscernible] switching on the NAPA brand or if youre just seeing any increased number of conversations being held? Yes Chris this is Paul.
For sure the  what weve got a good deal of activity thats continuing on that our team has involved in and the field that.
And honestly were quite pleased with the progress that weve seen both really in the second half of last year as well as in the first quarter of this year.
And I would tell you that we dont see that activity slowing down at all.
As a matter of fact were optimistic with what we see ahead of us in 2015.
Got it thanks.
And one longer term question I have.
You see this is like an overall sense on your kind of long-term view of the independent business as some of these businesses owners are getting retired.
Are you seeing them kind of pass down their businesses within the family to selling to other independent? Or do you think like [indiscernible] this could become a pipeline for GPC Company on service down the road? I will try to answer that Chris this is Tom.
I think its a combination of all of the things you referenced.
The way we work with our independent owners is that we try to stay very close to them not just operationally but also with their succession planning.
And if they dont have someone in mind to pass the business down to another family member perhaps or good long-term employee then well work with them to identify another independent that might have an interest in buying their business and wed have several different programs available to help facilitate that.
And then if in fact we dont come up with someone that should have opt to buy the business well certainly step in and buy it and in many cases well run it for a period of time until we find a good locally based independent to run the business from that point on.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Okay Chris.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Becks with JP Morgan.
Hi can you talk about the cadence in Automotive over the quarter and perhaps in the April if youre willing to address I know March was  last year was strong.
But just interested in the trend trying to get a better understanding of why youre expecting that business to accelerate from here? All right yes Mark this is Paul.
I would tell you that throughout the first quarter it was pretty consistent from January to February to March but we did see a little bit of a lift in the final two weeks of March for sure which really that along with the extra selling day that we had in the month of March gave us a record sales month.
So I'm not prepared to talk about April but we would hope to see that performance move into Q2.
And then as a quick follow-up to that can you talk about the trend in North East business and did that experience a similar rebound to the overall business or is that still tracking pretty softly? I think most of our regions showed some pick up in the second half of March as Paul referenced.
And also as he referenced we continue to see headwinds in the energy related areas.
But much of what we experienced in the first quarter was transitory.
If you think about the comps the comps get a little bit easier they were strong all year along but they get little bit easier as we work our way through the year.
Certainly the impact of the weather will moderate as we work our way through the year and the impact just for clarification the impact issue is that we did not have the extreme temperatures over the period of time that we had in the early part of Q1 last year.
What we did have is there is a lot of ice and a lot of snow that had a negative impact on all of our businesses frankly because we had a number of closures both our own facilities as well as customers facilities.
So were through that at this point and some of the supply chain disruption that Paul referenced will moderate as we work our way over the next couple of months.
So you know we gave you the number for the quarter we also gave you the guidance for the year and the guidance for the year suggest that we expect our Automotive business to pick up in the remaining three quarters of the year.
Yes so just to be clear it seems like the port shutdown and the supplier issues while still not completely gone there at the margin improving? They are improving somewhat thats right.
Okay and then just last housekeeping can you remind us what the Texas exposure in NAPA and then the overall any MI exposure to oil and gases? Yes we dont give that out but we have said in the past that the direct exposure for Motion industries is low single-digit but the hard number to really get to is the indirect exposure.
And what I mean by that I referenced earlier that certainly the rig operators our business with them is down but then if you went to the steel side of things all of the demand for new piping to go down hole thats gone.
Some of the pumps and motor demand that would be the anomaly thats diminished and then what we dont and cant quantify is that when you have the massive number of layoffs specific to that segment you have all of those workers that are for the most part moving in other areas but that takes the demand out of the areas that they were in and it doesnt get replaced one-for-one into the areas that they move to so you see the ripple effect of that.
And we see that back up on other manufacturing customers.
So its hard to get a true number but the direct absolute impact we know is in the low single-digit.
And then it ripples beyond that.
Okay thanks for those comments and good luck.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Chandni Luthra with Goldman Sachs.
Hi this is Chandni Luthra on behalf of Matt Fassler.
Very quickly guys could you contextualize if there was any impact from shift of Easter? Well certainly well see that impact in April but not really much in Q1.
Got it.
And the 3% growth that you talked about on comps thats inclusive of the extra selling day in the month of March right? Yes it is.
Perfect.
And then lastly could you throw some color on you DIY initiatives that kind of helped your margins to hold their own? Thank you.
I think Paul might reiterate the comments he made earlier about some of the things were doing.
Yes thanks for the question.
Basically some of the things that were doing on the retail side really its not right at the time were focused on the basics and the basics as I mentioned in my opening comments simply are to ensure our stores are well stocked ensure our planograms are up to-date ensure our people are well trained on the floor and ensure our stores are open when customers want to shop them.
And so its many of those basics that we have reinforced with our team and our company-owned stores and were pleased with the progress that were seeing we saw it throughout last year and we continue to see in the first quarter of 2015.
And also I want to go back on the question about did the comps include the extra day in March yes they did but in the quarter we had the same number of dates for the quarter we were short one day earlier in the quarter and we picked it up in the month of March.
So the comps are comparable.
Got it thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have one more caller on the line your final question comes from the line of Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Market.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Bret.
Good morning Bret.
Hi Carol if we looked that accounts payable to inventory for the Auto segment alone where would that number be? Good question Bret.
I would  we dont give it out by segment I would tell you that as you know its more prevalent in automotive industry with the extended terms programs with the supplier.
So a lot of our improvement is coming by way the Automotive Segment but I would tell you also that all of the segments have programs going on and we visited with our teams and each one is them be it Office be it Industrial all have programs going on with their suppliers.
So we looked at our AP to inventory and its 87% at the end of the quarter it was 84% at the end of the year and 79% a year-ago and I would tell you again that we dont give it out by Automotive but theyll certainly be higher than that.
Okay.
And then the question for Paul I guess as you look at the quarter and it didnt have as much temperature-driven product sales as last year in Auto.
I guess if you look at the extreme weather and what we did to things like road condition do you think that the net impact of the first quarters weather would be positive and that under-car and ride control and some of the categories that might benefit in the second quarter.
Well pull through or do you think is just a net negative and weather for 2015? Well Bret great question honestly were banking on some of that improvement coming in the second quarter.
I think I mentioned to you we saw our battery business really take off in the month of March which we did not have in January and February.
And we would hope for the same in some of the other key more weather related products as well.
Okay getting a little more granule I guess if you look at things that might be seasonally positive how we are looking nationally on things like temperature control right now are we setting up I guess weve had some normal weather on the West Coast for a favorable year-over-year comparison in some of those summer categories or just to where they are now? Too early to tell Bret I would tell you that that category was down slightly in the first quarter.
And again we all keep an eye on the weather charge and were hoping for some warmer weather this summer.
And if we get it we think our owners and our stores will be well stocked with heating and air conditioning type products and well take advantage of it.
Okay and then one last question for Tom I guess you mentioned that pending projects were up substantially I think for motion.
Could you give us a little color and may be whats driving that.
Well I think our customer base let me back up first Bret.
What we call project work is a lot of times our customers will have plans to do some major refurbishment on a piece of equipment or take a line down to refurbish the line.
And they let us know in advance of what their plans are so that they can be sure that weve got all of the product that they may need when they get into the actual work.
So we tried to track as best we can the number of those that weve been notified of and also the estimated value of the work.
So we see a nice increase both in terms of numbers as well as in terms of the dollar value.
Now not all of them come to fruition we have seen some overtime weve seen some that were plan get differed.
But with the increase that we see right now we would lead us to believe that over the next quarter or two were going to see some nice project work flow through the revenue line.
And whats driving that as you know weve got an aging base of the equipment thats out there youve got all customers are looking to be more efficient in what they do.
So I think its been driven by the business demands that they see with their end markets and wanting to be sure that they are in a position to avoid any downtime going forward.
Unplanned downtime.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Wed like to thank you for your participation on the call today and we thank you for your continuous support of Genuine Parts Company.
We look forward to reporting back out in July with our second quarter numbers.
Thank you.
Thank you this concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Genuine Parts Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sid Jones Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts' second quarter 2015 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The companys actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the companys latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Well begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid.
And I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President; and Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are both on the call as well and each of us has a few prepared remarks and once completed well look forward to answering any specific questions that you may have.
Now earlier this morning we released our second quarter 2015 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3.940 billion which was up 1%.
Net income was $195.4 million which was down 1% and earnings per share were $1.28 this year compared to $1.28 in the second quarter last year putting us even in EPS for the quarter.
So it was a challenging quarter for us both on the revenue and earnings side largely attributable to the impact of currency exchange on our international business as well a continued slowdown in specific segments of the economy which impacted several of our businesses.
Paul and I will comment more on these factors as we review the individual business results in a bit more detail.
I'll cover the non-automotive businesses first and the Paul will follow on the automotive segment.
Starting with Office Products this team turned in another strong quarter with sales up 14%.
The biggest contributor to our overall growth rate continued to come from the mega accounts as has been the case for the past four quarters and we're enjoying strong results with this customer segment.
On the independent reseller side we saw some moderation in the overall results in the quarter.
After four consecutive quarters of steady growth the independent channel was flat in the second quarter.
We were pleased to see a respectable month in June however from this important customer segment and hopefully this will carry on in the months ahead as well.
On the product side we were pleased to see solid growth across all four of our major product categories with facility and breakroom and furniture continuing to post the strongest increases but we had solid results from technology products and core office suppliers as well.
Now as a point of information in the third quarter we will anniversary the acquisition of Impact Products which was acquired on July 1st of last year.
Additionally we will anniversary the increased volume from the Office Depot/OfficeMax combination.
So as a result of these two factors our overall office products growth rates will moderate some of over the second half of the year.
However we continue to feel good about the progress that is being made by the office products team and they will turn in a solid performance for us in the second half and for the full year.
Moving on to our two businesses that are tied to the manufacturing segment of the overall economy EIS and Motion Industries.
We'll start with EIS our electrical company.
After being up 1% in the first quarter this team posted a 3.5% increase in the second quarter which was good to see but candidly acquisition volume drove the improved results with the underlying business actually ending the quarter down 2%.
All of this decrease in the underlying business is attributable to the ongoing slowdown in the electrical side of the business and this is largely due to the continued challenges faced by a number of our original equipment manufacturer customers challenges faced by our oil and gas customers as well as a sizeable reduction in copper pricing year-over-year.
Conversely our wire and cable and fabrication and coating segments continued to perform well for us.
These two businesses now account for just over 55% of our total EIS revenue and we are pleased with the progress that they are making.
Looking out over the remainder of the year our expectation is that we will continue to face challenges in the electrical side of the business but we do expect a solid second half from the wire and cable and fabrication and coating teams.
Before turning it over to Paul a few comments on Motion Industries our large industrial distribution company.
These folks had a challenging second quarter ending with sales down 2%.
Unfavorable currency exchange was a factor in the quarter but in addition to that we saw further weakening in certain segments of the customer base in the quarter as well.
From a product category perspective across our top 13 categories we had six categories that had increases one category was flat and six categories had decreases in the quarter.
These 13 categories in total account for over 90% of our industrial business and you can see the inconsistency and the choppiness in the results.
If we look at our top 20 customers the pattern is somewhat similar.
Among these 20 customers 11 were up 2 were even with the prior year and 7 were down.
Again inconsistent and choppy results.
Our strongest performing customer segments both for the quarter and year-to-date are in the automotive aggregate and cement and lumber and wood products categories and these results would mirror the strength of the performance of each of these segments in the overall economy.
On the other side of the ledger our weakest results will be with customers in the oil and gas iron and steel pulp and paper and original equipment and machinery segments.
And here again we think that this is reflective of overall economic trends and the uneven recovery among the North American manufacturing base with some segments fairing better than others.
Of our four business segments industrial is the one that is most challenged currently largely attributable to the tepid and inconsistent end market environment and conditions right now and this is not a situation that we see changing materially in the near term.
So under these circumstances our industrial team is focused on market share and share of wallet initiatives and actively looking for strategic bolt-on acquisitions as they work to improve their revenue picture over the second half of the year.
At this point we'll ask Paul to update you on the automotive results for the quarter.
Paul? Yes.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter conference call.
Im pleased to be with you here today and have the opportunity to provide you an update on our second quarter performance of our automotive business.
For the quarter ending June 30th our global automotive business sales were flat year-over-year.
This performance consists of approximately 4% growth in core automotive which is an increase from the 3% core growth we reported in the first quarter.
However similar to the first quarter this was offset by approximately 4% of currency adjustments.
The currency adjustment was relatively in line with our expectations for the quarter.
For the second consecutive quarter our US team posted a 3% sales increase while our international businesses which include Canada Mexico Australia and New Zealand grew mid-single digits in local currency.
Overall we believe this represents fairly steady growth across all of our markets and we expect to see this continue over the second half of 2015.
In the US we are pleased that nearly every region of the country positively contributed to our revenue growth in the second quarter.
This includes the Northeastern region which was impacted in the first quarter by the strong weather driven comps of a year ago as well as the Southwest region.
This region has been hit hard by the current oil and gas slump so we are pleased to see even modest growth.
Our strongest growth for the quarter occurred in our Atlantic and Central regions of the U.S.
We should note the Midwest section of the country which had reported double-digit growth in 2014 and positive growth in the first quarter was flat in the second quarter as the rain and generally dismal weather patterns that had plagued this area in recent month dampened demand.
Across Illinois Indiana and Ohio rainfall records were set in the month of June with each day receiving twice its average monthly rain levels.
We are encouraged to report that two weeks into July as more normal weather  summer weather has set in our business is coming back strong.
Let's turn to our same-store sales.
Our US company owned store group grew comparable same store sales in the quarter by 3% consistent with the first quarter.
This 3% increase was on top of the 7% increases generated in a strong second quarter of 2014 giving us a two year stack of 10%.
Our 3% sales increase in the quarter was driven by a combination of increases on both our commercial wholesale side of the business and by our retail business.
Lets start with our retail results.
As mentioned in previous calls we have put a renewed focus on this important segment of our business.
Our retail associates out in our stores as well as our retail team here at headquarters continued to get the job done driving a 7% increase in the quarter which is up from the 6% increase in the first quarter and on top of the 7% increase from one year ago.
We are encouraged with these continued strong results and it confirms the initiatives our team is focusing on are the right ones.
Our retail initiatives have had a positive impact on both the size or average ticket and the number of tickets moving through our stores.
In the second quarter we experienced an increase in our average retail ticket and a significant lift in the number of retail tickets.
Our retail strategy continued to be refined but be assured it remains a priority for us.
We realized we've got a great deal of work ahead of us but our results are reassuring and the opportunity for further growth is out there.
So now lets turn to our commercial wholesale business.
This segment turned in a 2% increase in the second quarter.
So we experienced slight deceleration from the 3% increase in the first quarter but with 7% growth last year we can report a 2 year stack of 9%.
Our fleet business the key component of our commercial wholesale segment moderated in the second quarter and while still positive contributed to our overall deceleration in this segment of our business.
Highlights for the quarter included solid performances by our two major wholesale initiatives NAPA AutoCare and Major Accounts.
Our NAPA AutoCare centers now totaling over 15 800 nationwide and our Major Account business delivered high single digit sales increases.
We can also report solid trends at our average wholesale ticket value which registered positive growth in the quarter with no inflation support.
Although we did see a slight decline in the average number of tickets flowing through our stores.
However we did point out after a slow start to the quarter we saw our ticket count improved throughout the quarter and in the month of June we experienced a solid increase.
Lets take a look at few of our key product categories and review some of the trends we experienced in the second quarter.
Consistent with the first quarter we can report strong growth in both our Bright business as well as our tool and equipment business.
We are especially encouraged by the double-digit growth we saw in the month of June with our heating and cooling product after a slow start to the quarter warmer than normal temperatures in the west the mountain in the Southwest generated strong air conditioning related sales.
In addition our NAPA Import Parts business was once again up low double-digits this quarter.
Finally in our first quarter call we commented on supply chain interruptions with one of our key under car [ph] lines.
We can report that this issue was mitigated in the second quarter as we felt much of our unmet demand with alternative suppliers.
So looking ahead to the second of the year we expect a significant foreign exchange headwind impacting our reported results to continue at its current level.
That aside we'll be working hard over the second half of the year to improve on our 3% to 4% underlying automotive growth achieved thus far in 2015.
We continued to be encouraged by the automotive aftermarket fundamental.
The average age of the fleet remains in excess of 11 years size of the fleet continues to grow fuel prices are down on average of $0.89 from a year ago and as you would expect miles driven continues to post substantial gains up 3.9% through April.
Each of these fundamentals bodes well for future demand.
We also have plans in place to drive stronger growth in the quarters ahead.
We announced last Friday the pending acquisition of Covs Parts a 25 branch distribution company in Western Australia.
Covs will be a great addition to our growing Repco business as this business is focused on original equipment and aftermarket automotive parts truck product and mining and industrial consumables.
The addition of Covs Parts which we expect to close by October 1st further expands our presence and scale in Western Australia and is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $90 million in US dollars.
This latest acquisition coupled with our continued Greenfield store expansion puts us over the 500 store mark in the combined markets of Australia and New Zealand.
This type of bolt-on acquisition will increasingly be a key focus for our teams throughout North America and Australasia.
So in closing we want to thank our management teams in North America as well as our team on the ground in Australia for all that they do for the GPC automotive business.
So that completes our overview of the GPC automotive businesses and at this time Ill hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul and good morning.
Well begin with a review of our second quarter income statement and the segment information and then well review our balance sheet and other financial items.
Tom will come back up and then well open the call for your questions.
Our total revenues previously stated was $3.94 billion for the second quarter an increase of 1% which consisted of underlying sales growth of 2.2% and a 1.3% contribution from acquisitions.
These items were offset by a strong currency headwind of 2.7%.
For the six months through June total revenues are $7.7 billion a 2% increase consisting of 3% core growth 1.4% from acquisitions offset by a 2.5% foreign currency headwind.
Our gross profit for the second quarter was 29.9% of sales and this compares to 30.2% growth margin last year.
For the six months gross margin at 29.85% compares to 30.05% reported last year.
Primarily the second quarter and six months declines reflect our ongoing customer and product mix shifts which continue to pressure our gross margins.
This is been especially prevalent in the office business over the last few quarters.
In addition we experienced some added pressure in our industrial business gross margin in the second quarter due to the reduction in sales volume and the related impact of lower supplier incentives earned.
Executing on our gross margin initiatives is a key priority for our management team and this area has our full attention.
We are committed to making progress towards an enhanced gross margin for the long-term.
Our gross margin initiatives are also critical and offsetting the low inflationary environment that has persisted across our businesses for several years now especially in automotive.
And our supplier pricing through June would indicate more of the same for 2015.
Our cumulative supplier price changes through June were down three tenths of 1% for Automotive up one half of 1% for Industrial up six tenths of 1% for Office Products and down 1.2% for Electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A total expenses were $868 million in the second quarter which is flat versus the second quarter of 2014.
Our SG&amp;A improved as a percent of sales by 20 basis points to 22.0%.
For the six months our total expenses of $1.7 billion are 22.5% of sales versus 22.7% last year.
In light of the 2% and 3% underlying sales growth for the second quarter and six months respectively we're relatively pleased with our ability to control our cost and encouraged by the positive of impact of these measures in this challenging period.
That said we believe there are opportunities for more improvements in this area and we'll continue to focus on our SG&amp;A line in the periods ahead.
Now well discuss the results by segments.
Our Automotive revenue for the second quarter of $2.1 billion was flat with the prior year and 53% of our total sales.
Our operating profit of $207 million is up four tenths of 1% and their margin improved 10 basis points to 9.9%.
For the year automotive sales of $4 billion are unchanged from the prior year and our operating profit of $358 million is up four tenths of 1% and our margin is constant with 2014 at 8.9%.
Industrial sales of $1.2 billion in the second quarter a 2% decrease from 2014 and 30% of our revenues.
Our operating profit of $89 million is down 7% and our operating margin declined 40 basis point to 7.5% as the loss of leverage and lower incentive pressured this group in the quarter.
For the year industrial sales of $2.4 billion represents 31% of our revenues and are up 1%.
Their operating profit of $177 million is down 1% and our margin is 7.5% which is down 10 basis points from last year.
For Office products the revenues of $478 million in the quarter up a solid 14% and representing 12% of our total revenues.
Our operating profit of $35 million is up a 11% and their operating margin was down 20 basis points to 7.2%  and for the year office revenues of $968 million are up 16% from 2014.
Our operating profit is $71 million is up 9% so our margin is down 50 basis points from last year to 7.3%.
As mentioned earlier the customers mix shift is impacting our net margin for this business but we remain encouraged by our overall growth.
The Electrical/Electronic Group had sales in the second quarter of a $195 million a 3.5% increase and 5% of total revenue.
Their operating profit of $18.6 million is up 13% so the margin for this group improved to 9.5% which is up 70 basis points and a new record high.
For the year sales for this group are $377 million and up 2%.
Operating profit of $34 million is up 6% and the margin is up to 9.0% from 8.7% which is a solid 30 basis point increase.
So for the second quarter our operating profit was flat with last year and our operating margin held constant at 8.9%.
For the year our operating profit is up 1% and our operating margin is 8.3 compared to the 8.4 for the same periods in 2014.
Another [ph] type of expansion we would expect to produce over the long-term that relatively steady given the sales volume for the quarter and the year.
We had net interest expense of $5.7 million in the second quarter and year-to-date our interest now stands at $11 million.
We would expect net interest expense of approximately $21 million to $22 million for the full year.
Our total amortization expense of $8.8 million in the second quarter and $17.4 million through the six months which is relatively consistent with last year.
We currently estimate $36 million to $38 million in total amortization expense for the full year.
The other line which reflects our corporate expense was $25 million expense for the quarter which is consistent with last year.
Through June our corporate expenses are $50 which is up slightly from the first six months of last year.
This is relatively in line with our expectations and for the year we would expect corporate expense to be in $90 million to $95 million range.
Our tax rate was 37% for the second quarter and 36.5% for the six months through June.
These rates are up slightly from 2014 due to changes in the mix of foreign income and the related foreign tax rate as well as the less favorable retirement plan valuation adjustment in the second quarter.
For the full year we expect our tax rates to be in the range of 36.7% to 37%.
Net income for the quarter of $195 million compares to $198 million in the second quarter last year and our EPS was $1.28 which is basically flat with 2014.
Now let's turn to a discussion of the balance sheet.
During first quarter and the year we have further strengthened our balance sheet which positions us well for future growth.
Specifically this speaks to our ability to effectively manage our working capital and drive increased cash flows.
Our cash at June 30 was $224 million an increase from approximately $153 million at June 30 last year.
Our cash position is strong and we continue to use our cash to support the growth initiatives in each of our businesses.
Accounts receivable at $2 billion at June 30 is up 5% from the prior year on a 2% core sales increase for the second quarter.
We continue to closely manage our receivables and we would add that June had an extra billing day relative to 2014 which accounts for a portion of this increase in the quarter.
We also remain very satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at quarter end was $3 billion which is up a margin [ph] of 1% from June of 2014 and actually improved by approximately 1% from year end.
Our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels and well continue to remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels in the periods ahead.
Accounts payable at June 30 was $2.7 billion up 10% from 2014 which reflects the positive impact of our improved payment terms and other payable initiatives established with our vendors.
We have shown continued improvement in this area for several periods now and we're encouraged by a positive impact on our working capital and days and payables.
Our working capital was $1.9 billion at June 30 an improvement of 6% from last year effectively managing our working capital and in particular our key accounts such as accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable continues to be a very high priority for our company and we're pleased with our ongoing progress in this area.
Our total debt at June 30 was $850 million.
This includes two $250 million term notes as well as another $350 million in borrowings under our multi-currency syndicated credit facility.
Our total debt to capitalizations approximately 21% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time as we believe that provides us with both the financial capacity and the flexibility necessary to take advantage of the growth opportunities we may want to pursue.
So in summary our balance sheet is in excellent condition and remains a key strength of the company.
We also continue to generate solid cash flows and were raising our 2015 projections for cash from operations and free cash flows by $50 million.
For the full year we're now planning for cash from operations to be in that $850 million to $900 million range.
Additionally we currently expect free cash flow which deducts capita expenditures and dividends to be in the $350 million to $400 million.
We remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for cash is the dividend which we have paid every year since going public in 1948 and we've now raised for 59 consecutive years a record that continues to distinguish Genuine Parts from other companies.
The 2015 annual dividend of $2.46 per share represents a 7% increase from the $2.30 paid in 2014 and its approximately 53% of our 2014 earnings which is well within our goal of a payout of 50% to 55%.
Our goal is to maintain this level of the payout ratio going forward.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our core businesses strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures was $21 million for the second quarter which is consistent with 2014 and through the six months our capital spending was $38 million down slightly from the $40 million last year.
Our expenditures should increase in the second half of the year and we're currently planning for CapEx spending to be in the range of $125 million to $135 million for the full year.
As usual the vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Our depreciation and amortization was $36 million in the second quarter and $71.5 million through six months which is down slightly from 2014.
Looking ahead we are projecting depreciation and amortization to be approximately $145 million to $155 million for the full year in 2015.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and an important use of our cash for us and they are integral to our growth plans.
In the first six months of 2015 we invested approximately $80 million for the acquisition of several new businesses including Miller Bearings in the industrial and segment and Connect-Air for the electrical business as well as a couple other smaller companies.
In addition last Friday we announced the acquisition of Covs Parts for Australasian automotive business which we covered earlier.
We will continue to seek new acquisition opportunities across our business segments to further enhance our prospect for future growth.
And although we find that many of these opportunities are smaller size companies with annual revenues in the $25 million $150 million range we're open minded to new business of all sizes large or small assuming the appropriate returns on investments.
Finally during the quarter we used our cash to repurchase approximately 670 000 shares of our common stock under the companys share repurchase program.
For the six months we repurchased 1.54 million shares and today we have 8 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we expect to remain active in the program in the periods ahead as we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
That concludes our financial report for the second quarter and six months of 2015.
In summary we're looking to improve on our first half results over the balance of 2015.
We have our growth plans in place and we're intensely focused on showing progress in periods ahead.
Despite our recent challenges and the relative uncertainty in the economy over the near term we're encouraged by the fundamental opportunities we see across our core businesses.
We look forward to updating on our future progress when we report again in October.
Now Ill turn it back over to Tom.
Thank you Carol and thanks to you and Paul for your updates.
So thats a quick recap of our second quarter and mid-year results and in summary we would certainly say that we founded to be a challenging quarter.
And as we look back over the quarter from our perspective there were three strong headwinds that were encountered.
First the strength of the US dollar and its impact on the currency exchange.
Second the continued and pervasive impact of the slowdown in the oil and gas sector and third the further slowdown in certain segments of the manufacturing sector of the economy.
As pointed out earlier currency had a 3% negative impact on our combined GPC sales in a quarter and a negative 4% per share in earnings.
Our Automotive operations experienced the most significant revenue impact of currency being just over 4% headwind.
But its important to point out that our core NAPA business continued to perform well as evidenced by their 3% same-store sales increase on top of the 7% same-store sales increase in the second quarter of last year.
So we feel continue to make progress on the NAPA side of the business.
Additionally our non-US based automotive operations each generated solid mid single digit local currency increases indicative of continued progress by our Canadian Australasian and Mexican teams.
Unfortunately these all translated to sizeable decreases when converted to US dollars.
And then looking at the cadence of the quarter we were encouraged to see that our automotive sales improved sequentially as the quarter progressed despite the impact of currency exchange.
Additionally the early July results are in line with June and hopefully a positive indicator for the months ahead.
Our Industrial operations were also impacted by currency exchange which caused them 1% revenue growth in the quarter.
But even more impactful was the continued and further slowdown in certain segments of the industrial end markets.
As mentioned earlier we saw mixed results among our top 20 customers segments with 11 showing increases two being flat and seven posting decreases.
While the 11 at the top remained relatively steady from Q1 to Q2 the rate of decline for the seven that are running decreases actually accelerated during the quarter which significantly impacted our results and at this point unfortunately we dont anticipate a reversal of this trend in the near term.
So due to the ongoing challenges of currency exchange and the continued and accelerating rate of decline among certain segments of our industrial customer base we feel a downward adjustments to our prior full year guidance are appropriate at this time.
On the revenue side our prior segment guidance was for automotive to be 2% to 3% at year end and right now we would say that should be 1% to 2% net of a 4% to the currency exchange headwind.
Previously we guided industrial to being up 5% to 6% and now we would say flat to up 1% net of a 1% currency exchange adjustment.
Electrical we were at 5% to 6% and we would see 3% to 4% currently and in office products we previously guided 6% to 7% and we're actually increasing that to 7% to 8% at this time.
In total our prior guidance was for GPC to be up 3% to 4% and now we would say plus 2% to plus 2.5% net of a 3% currency exchange impact.
On the earning side we previously guided to $4.70 to $4.80 and currently we would say that $4.65 to $4.70 is more appropriate and this includes a $0.15 per share currency adjustment.
On a percentage basis we'll be up 1% to 2% on adjusted and up 4% to 5% on a comparative basis.
So that would conclude our remarks and well turn the call back to Stephanie to take your questions.
Stephanie? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
I wanted to follow up on a couple of things.
Carol you talked a lot about gross margin and some of the initiatives that you have in place there.
Could you help us understand a little better what drove the decline in the quarter and specifically what initiatives you have? Is there anything on vendor rebates that may have moved things around or how it will flow to some of the segments? And then I had a follow-up on SG&amp;A.
Okay.
On the gross margin I would say really what we saw this quarter the big impact that we had was in the industrial area.
I mean that was what was different than say last two quarters.
We had the continued pressure on gross margin in the office segment that we talked about before but on the industrial side the combination of their lower volume and having to do also with their customer and product mix but also the volume incentives that are related to that.
And as we adjusted what our thinking is between now and the end of the year thats factoring into what our adjusted guidance is its lowering that for the industrial volume incentive.
And then some of the initiatives actually our core automotive gross profit and we've put some things in place over the last six to 12 months and we're pleased with how thats working but we're up against some of the other pressures thats in the other segment.
So its on the buy side and the sell side.
Its really initiatives that we work on all the time across all of our businesses.
And Greg if I could also add one point the fact that office products is up 14% in the quarter it had an impact on the total gross profit as well.
Is it fair to say if you  ex industrial and office products were gross margins up in the auto business? Thatd be a fair assumption.
Yes.
We actually had improvement in both electrical and automotive.
Great.
And then on SG&amp;A dollars I noticed they were nicely controlled.
Would the impact there on FX be the same as on the top line? In other words if FX went away we would expect SG&amp;A dollar growth to be closer to the 3% to 4% not flattish? Yes.
We would say if you think about the FX kind of all the way down the income statement if you will its pretty consistent.
I mean there is really not an impact on our net margins.
So you can pretty much just take it all the way down the income statement its pretty consistent.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Greg.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning guys.
Morning Scot.
Morning Scot.
Hi.
How are you? I was hoping to get a little bit more color on specifically what has softened so much on the industrial side.
Obviously it's a pretty big sea change coming out of you guys Tom and we haven't seen that in multiple years.
And I guess what I'm asking is is it particular products or product lines and maybe another way of looking at it is of the seven end markets that we saw the deterioration in are there certain ones that were much worse than others? Like can you highlight those because it's down 10% 15%? What's the best way to kind of think about those? Thanks.
Well I think you've kind of answered your own question in a way Scot and that the ones that we highlighted in the order oil and gas iron and steel pulp and paper and the original equipment manufacturing segment they are the ones that had the most significant decreases in the quarter for sure.
And as I mentioned in my commentary what got our attention a bit was the sequential deceleration in the decreases.
So these four categories were down in Q1 but they were down even more dramatically in Q2.
And maybe to put a little more color on it if you look at oil and gas obviously the fact that the number of rigs running is down over 50% year-over-year.
Certainly that has an impact directly but the indirect impacts ripples through other customer segments as well certainly the steel segment for any steel manufacturer that has been producing piping to go into exploration they are having the same situation that we're experiencing.
So their volumes are down.
You can look at some of the pumping manufacturers those that have down hole pumps would be experiencing some of the same contraction that we're experiencing.
So it runs it pretty much runs through a number of other categories in addition to the oil and gas.
And part of it too is the fact that some of the businesses iron and steel and pulp and paper would also be having some issues because of currency exchange they are not exporting as much and in fact they are fighting some import pressures some product coming in from offshore.
So its a combination of factors.
So when you look at the second half in these particular end markets is the assumption that they kind of do in 3Q and 4Q what they did in 2Q or is there an expectation that they actually deteriorate further from here given the additional declines we've seen in some of the commodity complex? Well I'd preface my comments by saying we just dont know as clearly as we would like.
But our expectation is that we've experienced the worst of the deceleration.
We may see just a bit more or we may have stabilized some.
But its going to be another couple of quarters before we see this start to turn back up in our opinion.
Got you.
And then just one quick qualification if I might.
You talked about some - the cadence that we saw in the auto business.
And just to be clear you were talking about it on an organic basis is that correct in terms of the acceleration? Yes.
Okay.
Yes.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Mark Becks with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess just to pick up where Scot had left off on the industrial can you speak to how your growth looks like for the market and then I guess across your segments? Can you clarify how you look at the growth whether you have been maintaining share or perhaps gaining or losing share? Well I think as best we can tell we're maintaining share at a minimum and maybe gaining just a little bit based upon the data that we have.
And you know its all not its all not doom and gloom within the segment.
Certainly we've got some customer categories that are really challenged right now.
But as I pointed out we do have a 11 of our key 20 customer categories that are showing increases.
And additionally we've got some positive things going within the industrial segment.
Its just unfortunate that the seven that are down are down in such a magnitude that they are overshadowing some of the good things that are going on.
But over time we think that they will show themselves and things will start to turn back up.
But we're just not ready today to say that we're starting to see some of that up term.
We think we got another quarter or two before we'll experience some of that.
Okay.
And then can you give a little bit more color on the Australasia landscape? That's now well over a $1 billion business for you and you just did the $90 million Covs Parts.
What's the size of that market and how does the margin profile look versus the US business? And then just given your recent investments over there what does that say about your outlook for the US market? We would  by our numbers we would say that we would have market share thats in the mid teens there in the Australasian market place.
And the outlook we think is generally favorable in local currency.
But I would say that the economies over there are equally challenged and I think the numbers that our team has put up would indicate that we're gaining a little bit of share over there currently.
In terms of the outlook and future growth prospects I think we'll continue to have recently good organic growth from the team over there.
I think we'll sprinkle in a couple of acquisitions over time and we continue to feel like we get a good return on our invested capital in that market place.
The margin structure is very much similar to what we would experience in our core automotive business.
So its equal in worst case and perhaps slightly accretive in best case.
Hey Mark.
This is Paul.
I would also add you mentioned the US market.
We  its our intent to continue to grow our footprint here in the US as well but I would also say the same about Canada and Mexico.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just last question can you shed a little light on the dividend and how you might be thinking about that this year? You've raised it for 59 consecutive years now.
It looks like earnings growth will be cyclically flat given the updated guidance.
And I know you target a 50% to 55% payout ratio.
But just curious how you are thinking about the growth factoring in EPS which has been a bit of a drag from FX but then your cash flow position strengthening.
Thank you.
Its a little bit early perhaps because we visited the whole dividend discussion at our February board meeting.
But at this point we would suggest to you that you'll see an increase in the dividend in February of 2016 and we'll pay out 50% to 55% of prior year earnings.
We just can't comment now on the size of the increase.
But you'll see an increase.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Mark.
Your next question comes from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
Morning Seth.
Morning Seth.
I'd like to ask a couple of questions on the auto business.
Tom you mentioned that trends for the quarter were improving.
But how do they look on a two-year stack basis as I remember you had some pretty easy comparisons toward the end of Q2 2014? We're going to get that number for you right now so.
Okay.
And related to that you mentioned an extra billing day in June.
Any quantification of how much of a benefit it was to your sales and auto or across the rest of the enterprise? No but the numbers that I cited are on a per day basis so we saw a sequential per day increases and strengthening as the quarter progressed and the same thing would be true in our month to date results.
So I think we're looking at an apples-to-apples comparison.
Yes just to be clear that we had the same number of days in the quarter but the comment on the extra day for June related to more the increase in accounts receivables because the extra day was in June and we had one last day in May.
Got it.
That's helpful Carol.
And then you mentioned Paul the number of transactions on the wholesale side were down in the quarter.
Any thoughts as to where the weakness was coming from? Was it in fleet or was some other area of the business? Yes we saw a little deceleration in the fleet business Seth which really we attribute really to some of the ongoing prices on the oil and gas side.
But it did come back towards the latter part of the quarter.
So I dont think its anything structural.
We've been seeing solid increases quarter-after-quarter and our ticket count side I think was a bit of an aberration that we'll see bounce back tin Q3.
Got it.
That's helpful.
With that outlook you ticked down your sales guidance for the segment for the year.
Any more color as to your thought process there? No its  part of it is due to the fact that we think currency is going to continue to play a factor for sure.
I think that might be a primary driver.
I want to go back to what I think I understood to the question earlier Seth and you asked about the comps and if we look at our comps in Q2 of this year and last year and Q2 last year we had 7% comps both for DIY and for DIFM and this year we were seven on the DIY and two on the DIFM.
So its not that comps weakened in the quarter I think we were going up against some pretty good comps.
And if we look out over the remaining quarters of this year we were up 6% in Q3 and we were up 7% in Q4 of last year.
So I think we're going up against reasonably good comps and I think we'll come through it fine but I do think the comps dont soften any for us in the near term.
Got it.
And just lastly to clarify on FX are you saying that you expect more FX headwinds for the year than you initially did in the auto segment? Well I think across all of our businesses that are affected and maybe just to put a little color to that.
If we look at year-over-year our FX comps and I look that on the 15th of July 15 the difference between July 15 2014 and July 15 2015 we had 19% deceleration versus the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso and 21% decline against the aussie dollar.
So thats a little stronger than what we had originally anticipated.
Got it.
All right thanks and good luck.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Elizabeth Suzuki with Bank of America.
Good morning.
Given the miles driven in the US really started to accelerate in recent months.
I think the expectation may have been that the auto division would have been a little bit stronger in core growth.
Do you think auto is going to start reflecting that improvement in driving trends and vehicle usage in the coming quarters or are there competitive pressures at play that could hold back some of that same-store growth? Well what I would say first of all is the underlying growth for automotive was I think reasonably good at 4% and I think historically thats a pretty good number.
I think Paul referenced some of the underlying factors are generally favorable miles driven as for instance through the last three quarter [ph] we've seen are up 3.9% year-to-date thats the best we've seen a while.
So our expectation would be that demand should remain pretty good over the remainder of the year.
One thing that impacted automotive as Paul referenced in his comments was the abnormally worst conditions we've experienced up through the Midwest and that affected not just the normal DIFM type of business it certainly affected our agricultural business up through that part of the country as well.
But assuming that we dont hit abnormality so I think that demand pattern should be reasonably good as we work our way through year end.
Okay great.
And with foreign exchange having a larger and larger impact as you grow internationally are there any plans to put currency hedges in place? It just seems like FX is causing a lot more fluctuation in your earnings than we are used to.
We're looking at it we havent done anything as yet but we recognized its something that we need to spend a little more time on.
Okay.
Great Part of the FX when you are just translating the dollars into your income statement you can't really hedge against that What we're looking at as more on the cash flow and balance sheet side but we're just translating the sales in from these foreign countries we do have an impact there you really just have to translate the lower dollar.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot.
And good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning Matt.
A couple of follow-up questions on automotive.
Can you give us a sense for the order of magnitude of fleet deceleration? Just trying to understand how much it contributed to the DIFM slowdown because it looks like your DIFM comp slowed from 3 to 2.
We had assumed that in the first quarter your fleet was up kind of mid single a [indiscernible] I mean year-on-year basis No.
Matt this is Paul.
Fleet business was actually up a couple of points in the quarter but it wasnt at the trend that we've seen in recent quarters which you already hit on was closer to mid single digit.
So we saw a  yes we saw a little bit of deceleration in the quarter and if you break it down its certainly an element of our overall commercial wholesale business and its an important element for sure but again we dont think there is anything structural there and that we'll see that bounce back in Q3 in the balance of the year.
And then just a follow-up Paul.
So we have your new automotive revenue guidance for the year and we have the number gross of FX net of FX.
To the extent that you ran a US comp of 3% in both the first quarter and the second quarter what's the directional expectation for that number within the automotive business in the second half of the year? This is Tom we would say probably consistent with what we've seen through the first of the year.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Sponheimer with Gabelli.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning Brian.
To try and focus more on the positive within Motion can you talk about outside of auto production maybe some of the sub-pockets of growth that you may not have foreseen heading into the year? Is construction one of them? Yes anything related to construction Brian we're showing good results so if you get into the aggregate and cement category thats a nice category for us currently.
Lumber and wood products is a nice category for us as well.
So its  I think its fair to say if you looked at those segments of the manufacturing sector that are performing reasonably well they tied pretty closely to those segment of the overall economy that are performing pretty well right now.
So All right.
And then just on the OE side within Motion would you say that it's driven more on the equipment side by mining or is this now fully an ag and potentially some broader machinery issue? I think its a combination.
And I think its a factor of curtail demand here domestically but also its an FX situation as well to the dollar some of these companies that have reasonably strong export businesses are not getting the same type of demand that they might get under more normal FX circumstances.
So I think its a combination of both elements [indiscernible] All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Brian.
We have time for one question.
Your last question comes from Bret Jordan with Jefferies [ph] Good morning guys.
Morning Bret.
Morning Bret.
Just a quick question on the DIY trends.
Obviously 7% is better than the market.
Are you seeing market share gains in any particular regions or do you see yourself picking up share from any particular channels? Bret its hard to tell our retail increases are wide spread and you know I think as I've said in prior calls its our team thats been really just focusing on the basics better store hours better training better planogram execution better in store stocking.
We've gotten I would tell you we've got creative in some of our recent promotions that have performed well for us but its hard to say if we're actually picking market share or not but I would think with the kind of increases we've been showing we are most likely taking it from one of the competitor.
Okay.
And then as far as temperature control you mentioned double-digit growth.
Was that something you are talking about double-digit growth regionally? I think you called out the West.
Or was that double-digit growth as an entire category? And I guess to follow up how are inventory levels when you're seeing that kind of growth? Are you being able to meet the demand? Yes.
So the double-digit growth was that to cross all of NAPA that was we really it was driven in the western part of the country we had record heat out west in the month of June Bret in California Oregon Washington record temps so they really drove the increase.
But we're seeing significant increases across the country and right now we're into good shape at our inventory level.
Okay.
And then one last question.
Mexico the branding under NAPA as opposed to AutoTodo what are you seeing? Are you picking up share sequentially with NAPA or is it too early to tell? Its too early to tell we're still early in our rollout we have 11 companies stores up and running.
We have a certainly goal that continued increase at our  its still early Bret but we're on plan and on target.
All right great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thanks Bret.
Thank you.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference.
I'll turn it back over to management for closing remarks.
We thank you for your interest in Genuine Parts Company and your continued support and we look forward to reporting to you on October with our third quarter results.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Genuine Parts Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sid Jones Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts' third quarter 2015 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for the full year.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during the call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid.
And I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue our President; and Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are both on the call as well and each of us has a few prepared remarks and once completed we will look forward to answering any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our third quarter 2015 results and hopefully you've had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3.922 billion which was down 2%.
Net income was $188.1 which was down 1% and earnings per share were $1.24 this year compared to $1.24 in the third quarter last year putting us even in EPS for the quarter.
As has been in the case for year along currency exchange has been a significant headwind for us both on the revenue and earnings results and the impact accelerated in the third quarter.
Importantly the local currency results for our international businesses remain solid but when converted to U.S.
dollars we lost 4% on the revenue line and 5% per share in EPS in the quarter.
Or stated in another way without currency impact our sales were up 2% and EPS was up 4%.
In addition to the currency headwind we continue to experience a slowdown in specific segments of the economy which impacted several of our businesses but most significantly in industrial and electrical.
We will comment on this factor a bit more as we review the individual businesses and as we customarily do I will cover the non-automotive operations and then Paul will report on the automotive segment.
Starting with Office Products this Group saw this deceleration on the revenue side in the quarter.
After being up double digit since sales growth in each of the first two quarters the Office Products team ended the quarter up 3%.
The deceleration is primarily attributable to anniversary in both increased volume from the Office Depot/OfficeMax merger last year as well as the impact products acquisition that was completed in July of 2014.
Each of these was a significant contributor to the double digit growth rates generated over the past four quarters and we anticipated the moderation in Q3.
However we would have to say that we saw a bit more deceleration than expected and more so as the quarter progressed.
Our sense is that the underlying Office Products demand has softened over the past 90 days.
From a channel perspective the softening was more pronounced on the independent reseller side and we ended the quarter down mid single digits.
Our mega channel remains strong posting another big double digit increase.
On the product side facility and breakroom supplies and furniture each had strong quarters and core office supplies were positive as well.
Our technology products were down mid single digits.
So putting it all together our Office Product segment was up 3% for the quarter which in the current environment is probably a solid performance.
However we were expecting just a bit more in the quarter and we're watching the recent slowdown closely.
Before closing on Office Products we do want to mention the acquisition that was completed on October 1.
Malt industry is a $20 million distributor at safety products and this acquisition will help to further diversify both the product and customer portfolios for impact products and for S.
P.
Richards and were pleased to now have miles industries as part of our organization.
They will contribute nicely to our Office Products results in the quarters ahead.
Moving over to the industrial segment Motion industry has experienced another challenging quarter ending the quarter with a 4% decrease.
And demand patterns across our customer base were similar to what we have seen pretty much all year long.
Customers and segments like lumber and wood products food processing cement and aggregate and automotive were generating solid positive results for us and we continue to make good progress with these accounts.
Conversely however customers in the mining and resource oil and gas iron and steel pulp and paper and original equipment manufacturing are all running sizable decreases for the third quarter and year-to-date and notably the rate of decline actually accelerated as the quarter progressed.
So despite the fact that there are number of positives within our industrial results they are being more than offset by some of the specific headwinds and circumstances that were encountering and we dont see this changing in the near term.
In the meantime our industrial team remains focused on key elements of their growth strategy.
They were able to complete one acquisition in the quarter Lake Erie Tool &amp; Abrasive was acquired on September 1.
This is a pre location distributor of tools and abrasives with annual revenues of approximately $30 million and Lake Erie will be a nice addition to the Motion organization.
Additionally the Motion team continues to make progress in the areas of securing new corporate account agreements penetrating new markets and expanding share of wallet initiatives each of which will contribute incremental revenue in the months ahead and will help to offset some of the declines that we are experiencing in the key customer categories mentioned earlier.
But as with office products we saw deceleration in our industrial results over the quarter which we feel is reflective of the ongoing challenges being faced by many segments of the manufacturing sector in the economy and this is a situation that will take a bit more time to work us way through.
And I will wrap up the non-automotive operations with a few comments on EIS our Electrical Segment Entity.
This Group ended the quarter up 2% but in looking at the results more closely it shows that they are down 2% netted acquisitions and copper pricing and similar to Motion many of their manufacturing base customers are experiencing end market headwinds.
However it's interesting to note that EIS is made up of three different business segments.
Electrical is the largest at 40% fabrication is 30% and wire and cable is 30% and it's in the electrical segment where we are experiencing the most challenges.
This business is running behind year-to-date while our fabrication and wire and cable segments are both generating solid increases validating the diversification strategy that was embarked upon several years ago and this is something that they will continue to drive in the quarters ahead.
End markets will remain challenging for the EIS team at least for the near term especially on the electrical side but they do have a number of potentially positive initiatives underway primarily in the fabrication and wire and cable sides of the business and we are pleased with the progress they have made in each of these segments.
So that will conclude the comments on the non-automotive businesses.
And Paul will now review the automotive operations with you.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
Im pleased to be with you here today and have the opportunity to revive you an update on our third quarter performance of our automotive business.
For the quarter ending September 30 our global automotive sales were down 2% year-over- year.
This performance consists of approximately 4% in core automotive growth which is consistent with the second quarter and improved from the 3% underlying growth we reported in the first quarter.
However this was offset by a currency headwind of approximately 6% in the third quarter which is up from a 4% currency impact in the first and second quarters.
Previously our expectation was the currency to hold at/or around 4%.
Our U.S.
team posted a 4% sales increase in the third quarter which is improved from the 3% growth we reported for the first and second quarters.
Our international businesses which include Canada Mexico Australia and New Zealand reported another quarter of mid-single digit growth and local currency.
We are encouraged by the positive trends we are experiencing in our U.S.
results and the steady growth across our international markets.
We expect that these trends continue in the periods ahead.
In the U.S.
we are pleased with the progress and we are seeing in our field operations across the country.
While result vary by geographical reason our teams are executing on our key initiatives and again we are pleased with the progress The Atlantic North East Central and Southern Region showed the strongest growth in the quarter.
Likewise our sales in the mid-western region of the country rebounded nicely in the quarter.
This pay group reported solid growth following flat sales in the second quarter which was directly related to the wet weather patterns experienced in this spring and early summer.
The number of our stores throughout the South West including Texas and Oklahoma as well as a number of our stores in the mountain division which includes Montana and the Dakotas continue to feel the effects of the downturn in the oil and gas business.
So now lets take a look at our same store sales for Q3.We are pleased to report our U.S.
Company own store group.
Group stores sales grew comps store sales in the third quarter by 5%.
This is an improvement over 3% comp store increases we reported for both the first and second quarters.
This 5% increase is on top of the 6% increase generated in the third quarter of 2014 giving us a two year stack of 11%.
Our 5% increase in the third quarter was driven by a combination of increases on both our commercial wholesale side of the business and by our retail business.
Let's start with that retail results.
As mentioned in previous calls we continue to expand our revamp DIY initiatives across our company owned store group.
Were pleased to report these initiatives are having a positive impact on the results as evidenced by an 8% increase in our retail business.
This increase is being driven by both transaction and basket size increases and is up from a 7% increase in the second quarter and on top of the 5% increase one year ago.
As mentioned earlier our retail initiatives have had a positive impact on both the size our average ticket and the numbers of tickets moving through our stores.
In the third quarter we experienced an increase on our average retail ticket and a significant jump in the number of retail tickets.
While we are still on the early dates of our rolling out our retail strategy we are pleased with the initial returns.
We have a great deal of heavy lifting in front of us but our team both in the stores and here at headquarters is truly energized.
Moving along to our core commercial wholesale business this is the dominant segment of our automotive business and in Q3 we turned in a 4% increase.
This is a nice improvement from the 2% increase we reported in the second quarter and is on top of the 6% increase in the third quarter of 2014.
The centerpiece of our commercial and wholesale business remains our major account alliances as well as our NAPA AutoCare business.
Our NAPA AutoCare business surpassed another milestone in the quarter as our membership count has now gone over the 16 000 mark in the U.S.
this Group generated high single digit sales increases in the quarter.
And we can also report our major account partners delivered steady and solid growth in the quarter.
Our fleet business bounced back after moderating somewhat in Q2.
Sales to our fleet account showed a low mid-single digit sales increase in the third quarter which is in line with the overall growth of our U.S.
commercial wholesale business.
Our wholesale ticket trend was consistent with what we experienced in the second quarter.
Our average wholesale ticket value was up mid-single digit with no benefit from inflation while we saw a slight decline in the average number of tickets.
Let's take a look at a few of our key product categories and review the trends we experienced in the third quarter.
Our brakes category was a highlight again in the third quarter and it has been a strong category for us all year.
And as mentioned in last quarter's update we experienced a strong selling season with our heating and cooling categories.
The warm summer temperatures we experienced across many parts of the country drove strong air conditioning sales well into September.
We also saw a resurgence with our battery sales in the quarter.
This category was off its historical growth rates in the first half of the year but we are pleased to see a rebound in the third quarter.
And finally our NAPA import parts business continues to expand as we registered another quarter of low double-digit growth.
So looking ahead to the fourth quarter of the year we expect the significant foreign currency headwinds impacting our reported results to continue.
That aside we'll be working hard to further improve on our 4% underlying automotive growth achieved thus far in 2015.
Turning to the trends we are seeing across the automotive aftermarket the fundamental drivers of our business continue to be positive.
The average age of the fleet remains in excess of 11 years.
The size of the fleet continues to grow.
Lower fuel prices remain favorable for the consumer and miles driven continues to post substantial gains.
US driving topped 1.8 trillion miles over the first 7 months of the year which is a new record.
In addition the latest month with reported figures is July which was up 4.2% year-over-year also a new record.
This makes 17 consecutive months of increases in miles driven.
As we look ahead strategic M&amp;A will continue to be a growth lever for our automotive business.
We mentioned in our Q2 conference call that we entered into an agreement to acquire Covs Parts a 25 branch distribution company in Western Australia.
Covs will serve as a nice complement to our existing Repco business as they are focused on original equipment and aftermarket automotive parts truck products and mining and industrial consumable.
We had hoped to close this acquisition on October 1 but are currently awaiting regulatory approval and are targeting a close date no later than December 1.
The addition of Covs Parts further expands our presence and scale in Western Australia and is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $90 million in US dollars.
Based on - back on August 1 we closed on a smaller store acquisition in Australasia and although the revenues for this business are less than $10 million annually these types of bolt-on acquisitions throughout North America and Australasia will continue to be a key focus for our teams.
So in closing we are pleased to show progress in our third quarter automotive results and we're working hard to continue these positive trends.
We would like to thank our teams both in North America as well as Australasia for their efforts and appreciate all that they do for the GPC automotive business.
So that completes our overview of the GPC automotive business and at this time I'll hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul and good morning.
We'll begin with a review of our income statement and segment information and then we'll review some key balance sheet and other financial items.
Our total revenues for the quarter were $3.9 billion consisting of underlying sales growth of 1.4% seven tenths of 1% contribution from acquisitions.
These items were offset by a strong currency pressures of 3.7% which was somewhat stronger than we had anticipated.
For the nine months through September our total revenues of $11.6 billion a 1% increase consists of 2.4% core growth and 1.2% from acquisitions offset by a 3% currency headwind.
Our gross profit for the third quarter was 29.8% up slightly from the 29.7% gross margin last year.
For the nine months our gross margin of 29.8% compares to the 29.9% reported last year.
The progress we made in the third quarter is encouraging and primarily reflects the improvement in our automotive margins although the office and electrical businesses also increased.
The improvement in these businesses was partially offset by the continued pressure we're experiencing in our industrial business which is due to the sluggish sales environment and lower inventory purchases which ultimately negatively impacts supplier incentives earned.
Executing on our gross margin initiatives is a key priority for our management team and we're committed to an enhanced gross margin for the long-term.
We would also add that our gross margin initiatives are critical in offsetting the low inflationary environment that has persisted across our businesses for several years now especially in automotive.
Cumulative supplier price changes through September are negative three tenths of 1% for automotive positive seven tenths of 1% for industrial positive six tenths of 1% for office products and a negative 1.5% for electrical.
Turning to our SG&amp;A our total expenses were $869 million in the third quarter which is a 2% improvement from the third quarter in 2014 and at 22.1% of sales compared to 22.2% last year.
For the nine months our total expenses are $2.6 billion which is a slight increase from 2014 but improved as a percentage of sales to 22.4% compared to 22.5% last year.
Our teams remain focused on controlling expenses in this environment and we continue to take actions to further improve our productivity and streamline our operations to enhance performance.
Although we would expect to see more progress on this line in the periods ahead it's also important to note that our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue traditionally trends upward in the fourth quarter relative to the first nine months of the year and we are planning for that.
Now let's talk about our segment results.
Our automotive revenue for the third quarter was $2.1 billion which is down 1.7% from the prior year and 52% of sales.
Our operating profit of $202 million is up 4.5% and their margin improved just strong 60 basis points to 9.8% which was due to improved gross margins and also expense controls.
For the year automotive sales of $6.1 billion are down seven tenths of 1% and our operating profit of $560 million is up 1.8% and our margin is improved year-to-date by 20 basis points to 9.2.
Our industrial sales were $1.2 billion in the third quarter a 4% decrease in 2014 and 30% of our revenues.
Our operating profit of $90 million is down 5.4% and our margin was down slightly 10 basis points to 7.7.
For the year industrial sales of $3.5 billion represent 30% of our total revenues and are down 1% from 2014.
Our operating profit of $267 million is down 2.6% and our margin is 7.5% which is down 20 basis points from last year and this relates to the loss of leverage and lower incentives that have pressured this group for most of the year.
Office products revenues were $511 million for the quarter up 2.9% and representing 13% of our revenues.
Our operating profit of $36 million is up 9.3% and their margins showed nice improvement up 40 basis points to 7.1%.
This increase was driven by progress on both the gross margin and expense lines and it was partially related to the Office Depot OfficeMax business which we anniversaried July 1 of this year.
For the year office product revenues were $1.5 billion up 10.9% from 2014.
Our operating profit of $107 million is up 9% and our margin is down 10 basis points from last year to 7.3%.
So we're pleased to see our margin for this business stabilize.
The electrical electronic group had sales in the third quarter of $197 million a 2% increase and 5% of total revenues.
Our operating profit of $20 million is up 12.5% so the margin for this group showed strong growth of 100 basis points to 10.2% which is a new record high.
For the year sales for this group are $574 million up 2%.
Their operating profit of $54 million is up 8.6% and the margin has improved to 9.4 from 8.9 last year.
So a very solid 50 basis point improvement.
So for the third quarter our total operating profit was up 3% from last year and our operating margin improved by 40 basis points to 8.9% from 8.5%.
For the year operating profit grew 2% and our margin is 8.5% which is up 10 basis points from the prior year.
Our margin expansion in the third quarter was driven by improvement in gross profit and also solid progress in managing our expenses.
We're very pleased with this expansion given our current sales environment.
We had net interest expense of just over $5 million in the third quarter and our year-to-date interest now stands at $16 million.
We expect net interest expense of approximately $21 million to $22 million for the full year.
Our total amortization expense was $8.5 million for the third quarter and is $26 million through nine months which is consistent with last year.
We currently estimate total amortization expense to be approximately at $35 million for the full year.
The other line which reflects our corporate expense was $34.3 million for the quarter which compares to $26.1 million last year.
Through September corporate expense was $84.2 million compared to $74.5 million for the first nine months of last year.
Primarily unfavorable retirement plan valuation adjustments of $5 million and $7 million for the quarter and the nine months account for the increases.
In addition we've experienced slight increases in cost such as legal and professional and IT related investment.
Looking ahead we will expect that corporate expense line to be in the $100 million for the full year.
Our tax rate was 37.45% for the third quarter and 36.85% for the nine months.
These rates are up from 2014 due to the changes in our mix of foreign income and the related foreign tax rate as well as the unfavorable retirement plan valuation adjustment that was recorded in the last two quarters.
With these factors in mind we currently expect our tax rate to be approximately 37% for the full year.
Our net income for the quarter of $188 million compared to $190.5 million in the third quarter last year and our EPS at $1.24 was equal to last year.
For the nine months our EPS at $3.56 is up 1% from the same period last year.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet which we were able to further strengthen again in the third quarter.
Specifically this speaks to our ability to effectively manage our working capital and drive increased cash flows.
Our cash at September 30 was $199 million an increase from $136 million at September of last year.
We continue to use our cash to support the growth initiatives across our distribution businesses.
Accounts receivable was $2 billion at September 30 is down 1% from the prior year and relatively in line with our 2% increase in sales for the third quarter.
We continue to closely manage our receivables and remain satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at the end of the quarter was $3 billion or down 1.5% from September and a decrease of approximately 2.5% from year end.
Our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels and well remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels in the periods ahead.
Our accounts payable at September 30 was $2.9 billion up 12% from last year which reflects the positive impact of our improved payment terms and other payable initiatives established with our vendors.
We're pleased with our continued improvement in this area and we're encouraged by the positive impact it has on our working capital and days and payables.
Our working capital was $1.9 billion at September 30 an improvement of 5% from last year.
Effectively managing our working capital and in particular our accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable remains a high priority for our company and we're pleased with our ongoing progress in this area.
Our total debt at September 30 was $625 million which is a decrease from the $835 million last year and a decrease from $850 million at June 30.
Our total debt to capitalization is approximately 16.5% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
We believe it provides the company both the financial capacity and flexibility necessary to take advantage of the growth opportunities we may want to pursue.
So in summary our balance sheet is in excellent condition and remains a key strength for the company.
We also continue to generate solid cash flows driven by the significant improvement in our working capital.
Were raising our 2015 cash flow projections for the full year.
We're now planning on approximately $950 million in cash from operations.
Additionally we currently expect free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends to be approximately $450 million.
We remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serve to maximize shareholder value.
Our first priority for cash is the dividend which we've raised for 59 consecutive years.
The 2015 annual dividend of $2.46 per share represents a 7% increase from the $2.30 per share paid in 2014 and its well within our goal of 50% to 55% payout ratio.
Our other priorities for cash include the ongoing reinvestment in each of our four businesses strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
Our investment in capital expenditures was $25 million for the third quarter and through the nine months capital spending is $62 million.
We expect our expenditures in the fourth quarter for the full year to be in the range of $105 million to $115 million.
The vast majority of our investments will continue to be weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Our depreciation and amortization was $34 million in the third quarter and its $106 million through nine months which is down slightly from 2014.
Looking ahead we're projecting depreciation and amortization to be approximately $140 million to $150 million for the full year in 2015.
Strategic acquisitions continue to be an ongoing and important use of our cash for us and they're integral to our growth plans.
For the nine months through September we've invested approximately $115 million for the acquisition of several new distribution businesses including the two in the third quarter previously covered by Tom and Paul.
Also as previously mentioned we closed on an acquisition on the office products business small industries and we expect to acquire Covs as Paul mentioned later this quarter.
So as you can see acquisitions are important to our growth plans and we'll continue to seek new acquisition opportunities across our distribution businesses to further enhance our prospects for future growth.
Although many of these opportunities will be smaller sized companies with annual revenues in the $25 million $150 million range we're open minded to new complimentary distribution business of all sizes large or small assuming the appropriate returns on investments.
Finally during the quarter we used our cash to repurchase approximately 950 000 shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program.
For the nine months we've repurchased 2.5 million shares and today we have seven million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
We have no set pattern for these repurchases but we've been slightly more aggressive with our repurchases given the value of our price during those for this year.
We expect to remain active in the program in the periods ahead and we continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best return to our shareholders.
That concludes our financial update for the third quarter and nine months.
So in summary we've growth plans in place and are intensely focused on showing progress in periods ahead.
Despite our recent challenges and the relative uncertainty in the global economy over the near term we're encouraged by the fundamental opportunities we see across our distribution businesses.
In closing we would like to thank all of our GPC associates for their hard work and commitment to their jobs.
Our people truly are our greatest asset.
Now Ill turn it back over to Tom.
Thank you Carol and thanks to you and Paul for the comprehensive updates.
So that will conclude our prepared remarks and clearly it was another challenging quarter for us.
However underneath the headline numbers there were a number of positives as well.
Few examples the 4% constant currency increase in automotive and 5% company store same-store sales growth shows steady progress as does our mid single digit local currency increases in Australasia Canada and Mexico.
Also in Automotive the continued strong results coming from the NAPA Auto Care and major account initiatives are two primary and commercial programs and the solid 8% increase in our retail business show good progress on both the commercial and retail sides of the business.
The completion of two key acquisitions in the quarter one in office products and one in industrial and we expect to announce a few others of similar size before yearend and all this will give us a bit of a sales lift going into 2016.
Gross margin improved 12 basis points in the quarter and SG&amp;A decreased six basis points enabling us to show operating margin improvement in three of our four businesses and an overall GPC operating margin improvement of 40 basis points.
On the balance sheet good work was done in the areas of accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable enabling us to show a nice reduction in working capital as well as a nice increase in cash generation and there are ongoing progress being made by GPC team in a number of key areas as well which will all serve as well in the quarters ahead.
However the one area that continues to give a significant challenge is revenue growth across all of our businesses.
Currency is having an effect on each of the businesses to one degree or another both directly and indirectly and specific economic issues are impacting us especially in industrial and electrical.
Although both of these issues are transitory we dont expect them to moderate in the near term.
Additionally as mentioned we saw deceleration in our growth rates in three of our four businesses as the quarter progressed and the early October results are bit softer than planned.
At this point we dont see any evidence of share loss across the businesses and our sense is that we are seeing further softening and overall in market demand.
With all of that said considering current market circumstances and trends we feel that's appropriate to revise our year-end guidance downward.
Prior we gave you guidance on automotive of being up 1% to 2% and currently we would say that automotive will be flat to up just slightly with a 5% headwind from currency exchange.
Industrial our prior guidance was flat to up 1 and now we would say down 2% to down 3% with a 1% currency impact.
Office Products will remain the same prior it was up 7% and 8% and currently we say it will be 7% and 8%.
And electrical prior guidance was to be up 3% to 4% and we would say now up 2% to 3%.
So for total GPC prior guidance was up 2% to 2.5% and right now we would say flat to up slightly with little bit more than a 3% impact from currency exchange.
And with revenues at these levels our prior guidance per earnings per share was to be $4.65 to $4.70 but we would say now $4.55 to $4.60 with a $0.15 to $0.16 per share currency exchange impact and on a comparable basis that would put us at $4.70 to $4.76 which will be up 2% to 3%.
So that will conclude our prepared comments.
And at this time we will turn the call back to Victoria to take your questions.
Victoria? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Elizabeth Suzuki with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning guys.
Can you parse out the foreign exchange impact between Australia and Canada et cetera? And do you think the headwinds should start to ease in maybe not the next quarter but starting 2016? I'll try to answer that Elizabeth.
We can't give you the specifics right now on the impact by country but I cant tell you that currency exchange quarter-end-over-quarter-end we were down about 20% in Mexican Pesos about 18% in both Canadian and Australian Dollars.
If that helps we will be happy to follow up with you.
Okay thanks.
In the industrial segment are there cost-cutting measures or price cuts that you can execute to try to offset the demand headwinds? Are you noticing any market share shifts among your competitors at all? We are adjusting our cost structure as we go forward.
What normally happens is when we get in the periods like this and we have seen prior periods similar to this.
Revenue declines a bit more quickly than we can get to cost structure down but eventually we will catch up with it.
And then at least based upon prior experiences what we have seen is that when revenue does start to come back the earnings come back fairly quickly and at a bit stronger pace because of the good work that the team does on the cost side of the business.
As far as share shifts we don't see anything right now that would indicate to us that we are losing business.
I had mentioned in my comments that good work is going on in landing new agreements with specific customers which might suggest that we are at least holding our own perhaps picking up a little bit but as being overshadowed by the declines we are seeing in certain categories right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Becks with JPMorgan.
Hi thanks.
On the sales guidance I just wanted to sharpen the pencil on automotive and industrial.
So it looks like it's implying kind of 5% to 9% declines in industrial and then in automotive it seems like 4Q is like 2% to 6%.
So I was just hoping you can - obviously with 4Q being a little bit of a smaller quarter it gives a wide range so I'm hoping you can drill that down a little bit.
You're going to have to help me on that.
I get a little confused when you referenced second quarter.
Yes so if we use the guidance for down 2% to 3% in industrial it seems to imply a down 5% to 9% decline in industrial.
So I want to see if that seems appropriate.
And then similarly with automotive if we should be thinking about kind of 2% to 6% sales growth in that category for the fourth quarter.
I think on the industrial you are probably a ted high.
What you saw as Tom mentioned the later part of the quarter got worse in the industrial segment.
So we are guiding for a little bit worse in Q4 so its probably more at the lower end of the range that you talked about.
And then I think as you look out for what automotive would be Q4 I think you are in line with what we are using.
Part of that is the currency.
If currency wont be quite as strong of an impact in Q4 it's going to be more back to where it was like Q2.
All right that's helpful.
And then within industrial more specifically if I look at your 4% sales decline it looks like it was a little bit more severe than some of the competitors out there.
I was just curious who you see the major competitors being whether it be an Interline or perhaps maybe a Grainger or Fastenal who looked like their top line was a little bit stronger? Yes.
We would not say that they are direct competitors.
The best comparison I think would be with Applied Industrial Technologies with Kaman and with DXP.
They would be the ones that we would encounter most frequently and would have the cost with the clearest overlap in product offering.
If we look at Interline or if you like at Grainger or Fastenal we really dont overlap with them as much on the product categories that we sell.
Understood.
And then just last question you operated a distribution business essentially with four distinct segments.
I know some of the facilities are shared warehouses but I was just hoping you can kind of tease out what benefits you derive from operating the multiple segments and then the potential synergies you gain whether it be from fleet or transportation or shared services from the various segments? Thank you.
You mentioned three of the areas where we do get some leverage certainly on transportation both inbound and two to three outbound.
We certainly get it in the area of shared services without question.
We don't share facilities to a large degree today.
Each business runs independent facilities.
Thats something that we think potentially we could do as we go forward.
We are looking at it now between the couple of the businesses.
But we share technology enhancements and capabilities.
We generally pilot something new in one of the business prove the concept and then start to roll it into other businesses.
There are several things that we do across all of the businesses once we prove that the concept gives us a kind of returns that we are looking for.
And Mark I just want to be clear on automotive guidance that we talked about.
What we were talking about is probably flat up slightly for Q4 thats what implies but the FX would be about 4%.
So that is kind of what you are talking about.
Okay.
So with kind of the 4% core automotive growth rate it seems like that's a good number to think about for fourth quarter as well.
Yes it is.
And last year Q4 our automotive comp was at 6%.
So thats a good number.
Okay great.
Best of luck.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
Tom I think in your final comments you mentioned that revenue decelerated across the business through the quarter.
Could you help I guess give a little bit more color then into October and specifically in auto what you saw.
Does that mean that auto had a really strong beginning of the quarter and now it's just at that lower level that you just inferred or what do you think is going on there? We saw the quarter was softer.
The underlying business as Paul mentioned was pretty good.
But we did see deceleration in our U.S.
based business as well as in the international businesses.
The delta is not as significant in automotive as it is in industrial - and to a degree in office products.
The only business that we did not see deceleration across the quarter was in our electrical business.
The other three all declined.
If we look at the early results in October its pretty much in line with what we saw in the back half of the quarter is softer than what it had been.
We think right now based upon what we can gather from talking with our customer base and with our supplier base is we think end market demands have pulled back a bit from what we had seen earlier in the quarter and certainly through first half.
If I could follow up on the gross margin what drove the expansion there again especially in auto? Was it the stronger dollar helping price optimization vendor leverage? What are you seeing there? Actually Greg its all those things.
We were pleased - this has been our second quarter our gross margin improved with automotive and some of the things that we put in place earlier in the year and certainly you talked about it with our foreign operations.
We had to put some things in place on both the buy side and the sell side to combat the currency issues.
Those are working quite nicely for us in Q2 and Q3.
And then really on the U.S.
business too their gross profit is up as well and thats really just strong focus on both the buy side and the sell side.
Its just really all across the board.
So weve been pleased to see their improvements.
I'd tell you going into Q4 the only headwind is going to be coming with industrial and just a further softening in their top line.
So if we can maintain where we were at be flat or slightly up through the rest of the year but weve got a little bit of headwind with industrial.
Thats great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good morning to you.
The first question I want to ask is about the cadence of cost control.
The Company responded quite well to the revenue slowdown in the quarter both in SG&amp;A and in working capital.
And the deceleration in SG&amp;A growth or I guess the move to a decline was a real step change from where you had been.
The guidance that you gave as best I can tell suggests a trend in SG&amp;A much closer to the year-to-date number than what you saw in the third quarter.
So can you talk about what enabled you to cut costs so substantially in Q3 and why you don't expect that same pace of expense reduction to persist into Q4? What we talk about is look we were extremely pleased with the progress in Q3 and I'd tell you from an SG&amp;A standpoint again our team suggesting our cost structure to where we saw the topline to be and its in a lot of different areas on SG&amp;A and weve seen improvement thats come in automotive really all year with SG&amp;A.
Its really hard with industrial and their lack of top line for them to have.
And they are going to have continued pressure on their SG&amp;A line.
When you look at the full year Id really point you to look at our operating margins through the nine months where each of our businesses except industrial have improvements through the nine months and where we are at 10 basis points operating margins thats really probably more of what we expect to be for the full year.
We had sequential better sales in Q3 especially in automotive.
So we leverage better on the SG&amp;A.
Q4 you just have a lower sales volumes their seasonality.
You won't get as much SG&amp;A leverage.
And then we are guiding on the corporate expense.
You see a change there for the end of the year.
We had some favorable onetime items in corporate expense at the end of the year and we called those out last year and there was a swing of almost  there will be a swing of almost $10 million in that retirement plan adjustment.
So some of those things are factoring into our full year guidance to get us more to the year-to-date number youre looking at.
Okay.
Secondly and very briefly I know you announced a couple of new acquisitions.
Is it possible just to sum up I guess the annualized revenue that you acquired and just how we think about that factoring into the full-year guidance? I suspect that the numbers are going to be reasonably small contributors but anything we need to factor in as we build up our organic versus acquisition model for Q4? Well we have contemplated those acquisitions in our guidance.
The one that Paul mentioned the Covs acquisition doesn't close to December 1.
So there is a very small amount that would go in there.
But if you look at the ones we've already exposed on youre talking about something around 140 million on an annual basis and that excludes the Covs deal but hasn't closed yet.
And these are acquisitions -- the $140 million are for acquisitions you announced today? They are the ones going back to January 1.
Okay got it.
We have had about 7.
But those are in our 2015 guidance already.
So the new news we would have to add to our models is kind of immaterial for the rest of the year? That's correct.
And then finally interesting commentary on office products and I guess wondering for your insights on the independents sort of bearing the brunt of the slowdown.
When do you typically see that in a cycle? I know that there can be some volatility by channel so I don't want to make too much of it but you did call it out.
So curious for your read from the field on what that typically means.
Well the independence this is two consecutive quarters at the independent side of the business that has been down and we see further consolidation happening in that customer segment currently.
We see more of that continuing honestly as we work away through year end but our expectation would be that the independent side of the business would be positive for us in 2016 probably have another quarter or two were to be negative ahead of us yet.
It sounds like you have visibility Tom to some consolidation by actual deals that have happened that are changing the landscape a bit and then those run their course.
Well there are some of that thats right thats right.
And we have visibility to some that we think are going to happen.
Fair enough.
Got it.
Okay thank you so much guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
My first question is on the industrial side looking at the margin performance there which was very good all things considered.
Can you help us understand a little bit more on the gross margin side versus SG&amp;A side where you saw more pressure and how you expect that to play out in the fourth quarter? So on the industrial side and their growth margin is actually down and then their SG&amp;A is not improved either.
Thats the one area that I mentioned that - look the size the top line it's also the volume incentive so their volume incentives are down similar to their sales decrease in the quarter and we would expect those to be down for the full year as well.
So they are just not getting the same level and so thats going to be I think both pressure on gross margin and SG&amp;A.
So where their margins down 10 basis points through the nine months given where we have guided to for the full year we could see a little more pressure on that operating margin for the rest of the year.
Got it.
So only a little bit more than 10 basis points.
Does that mean 2030 or even more severe than that? Well wed hope that will not be more severe than that.
Look we are really hopeful that - right now we just dont know but hopefully its something what you described.
Got it okay.
Moving on on the auto side looking at the core business on the wholesale side in the U.S.
this is the second quarter in a row that you've talked about ticket counts being negative not dramatically so but any more color there why that's happening Paul? Yes and I think you and I talked about that last quarter.
Look there is a couple of things happening here one certainly vehicles vehicle quality is a heck of lot of better today and I think were seeing some of that impact on the number of cars coming into the bays.
But what you do see when they do come in that the repair is at a higher price which were seeing and were pleased to see as our average ticket value continues to - continues to go up in the right direction.
So it's something that were watching a bit Seth you are correct it is two consecutive quarters and were going to continue to monitor it but we would expect that to bounce back in 2016.
Got it.
Is there one segment of your wholesale business that is showing more weakness? Is it the up and down the street garage customer? No not really Seth.
I mean if you - the numbers that we shared with you our auto care business continues to be strong and that's thats all different sizes of shops.
Our major account business continues to be solid so there is no one area jumping out.
It maybe reflective but whats happening with the car counts in the bays and I think there is some inconsistency across the board in the industry with car counts I think some are experiencing increased car counts and others are flat to may be down just slightly.
Understood.
Okay thank you very much and good luck.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Management.
Thanks good morning.
Tom can you sort of maybe categorize a little bit how this slowdown feels versus other slowdowns you've experienced? The severity doesn't seem like it's as bad in any way but the beginning stages here I guess give pause and I think you even alluded to watching some things to maybe give you an indication how this may play out.
Its an interesting question Tony.
On the one hand we looked at a set of data points that would indicate that things are going along okay.
On the other hand you look at a different set and they suggest to you that its in consistent what the first set of data might indicate.
Right now it feels like were in a grind-it-out mode in several of our businesses and there seems to be quite a bit of caution on the part of a number of our customers primarily in the non-automotive businesses in terms of CapEx and investing for future growth.
And I think people are being very careful about how theyre spending their money right now on investing for the future.
So right now from at least from my perspective we still have a couple of quarters I think to work our way through this and I think its going to be a gradual path forward not anything thats going to be a hockey stick type recovery.
I think its going to be slow for another quarter or two and then hopefully well start to see the evidence of that.
And if you look at the disconnect on the industrial side the disconnect between industrial production and capacity utilization they seem to be going in different directions right now and historically they tend to move in line with one another.
So again just theyre conflicting sources of information currently.
Okay.
And was there something in particular on the office side as well which seems to be holding up better that gives you a little bit of a pause in a different manner than what you've seen in industrial? On the office products side we thought like the team together a pretty darn good quarter having anniversaried the two significant impacts.
Being up 3% in the current environment I think is reflective of some good work being done by the office products team.
The thing that gives us a little bit of pause though is we actually thought we might be just a slightly better as we went into the quarter we thought it might be a little bit stronger than the way it turned out and we saw some deceleration as the quarter progressed as I mentioned and thats continued on into the first half of October.
So we dont have the sense right now as to what the real cause but what we do know and talking with our primary vendors is that this is not unique to S.P.
Richards or Genuine Parts they're seeing this across most of their customer base and it just seems to be a temporary slowdown that hopefully we will reverse itself as we work our way through the quarter.
Okay that's great color.
Maybe if I can ask one more on the automotive side you are having very good success in terms of the DIY and gaining some traction with various initiatives.
Maybe if you could just add a little color to that in terms of is it simply you're a much higher percentage commercial business and so adding that emphasis on DIY is easy to gain that share? Is there something you are doing perhaps differently than what your traditional DIY-focused retailers would? Or is it a situation where even your affiliates are seeing an increased appetite for that type of product and maybe they are gaining some share from what seems to be a competitive marketplace with some disruption over the last couple of years? Yes Tony this is Paul I would tell you that and weve talked about it a bit in previous calls.
We have put a renewed focus on our DIY business.
We've addressed many of the fundamentals expanding our store hours additional training for our folks weve added some personnel in the stores and weve also are testing out a new retail store format Tony that we've began to roll-out in 2015.
And its very early yet but were pleased with the results and we'll be reviewing that the balance of this year and make a decision as we go into 2016.
Generally what takes place you mentioned our affiliates are independent owners they will many times let us pioneer some new ideas and certainly new approaches.
I think they will get on board when they see the kind of success that we're driving in the retail side.
Many of our independent owners do a heck of a job today on the retail side of the business anyway.
So it's early yet Tony but I would tell you we're pleased with the results that we are seeing.
Okay.
Now that's great.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Carolina Jolly with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Thanks good morning.
So looking at your results you've got some challenged end-market promotions.
Has this distress made any potential acquisition targets maybe something similar to Lake Erie more willing to discuss a potential sale? Well as you know it takes a willing seller and a willing buyer.
We are a willing buyer.
We just have to find more willing sellers that are willing to sell at prices that we think are favorable to the shareholders of Genuine Parts Company.
I mentioned in my comments that we have a couple more that we think we'll announce prior to year end none of which will have any material influence on Q4.
But will help us as we go into the first quarter of next year.
So there are a number of conversations that are going on.
A couple are further along and we feel confident that we'll get a few closed by year end and hopefully we can generate some additional interest from some others.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bret Jordan of Jefferies.
Morning.
A good question.
I guess as we talk about Mexico and it was about a year ago that you began to go to Mexico with the NAPA brand as opposed to Auto Todo.
Could you give us any color on how the traction is building there as you are rebranding? You bet Bret.
It was - you've got a good memory it was just about exactly one year ago that we launched our initiative in Mexico and bringing the NAPA brand down to Mexico.
We - where we are currently we're on track we're on target.
We expect to end the year with 20 to 25 NAPA stores in the region.
I would also tell you that probably since we last talked we're in the process of recruiting a couple of strong entrepreneurial independent owners who are opening stores down in the region as well.
So - so far we're on track.
Okay and then one other regional question.
You mentioned some of the energy states were a little softer than the average in performance in the quarter.
How about the West ex the energy states? If you go all the way out to the coast how was the regional performance there? Yes.
So the west - and I did mention our team out West but they are holding their own Bret.
They were right at the overall growth number for the commercial business and our overall business.
So West is holding up okay.
We're seeing as I mentioned solid growth up and down the East Coast all the way down into the southern and Florida groups most of our softness or where our softness is it's almost directly tied to some of those oil and gas markets.
Okay.
And then one last question as you were talking about M&amp;A is there any thought about increasing the Company-owned store base within NAPA either just buying in independents as they retire or doing something more structural there? I mean obviously as you are getting a retail operation you get maybe a better return on the average store.
Is there a thought about upping the Company-owned store count? I think you'll see that happen as time goes on Bret.
Our basic philosophy is we'll own the stores in and around the major metropolitan areas and we'll have good independent owners in the outlying areas.
And I don't think that will change materially going forward.
But as a percentage of our total automotive volume going out a few years you'll probably see the corporate stores represent a little bit higher percentage of the total volume than the independent stores do today.
All right.
Great thank you.
All right Bret.
Your next question  your final question comes from the line of Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Thanks for letting me in under the wire here.
Couple of things first of all I guess obviously we did see at least a slight deceleration in auto despite what seemed to be pretty favorable weather for most of the quarter.
So for the sake of focusing on an admittedly short-term issue I guess the question is probably for Paul.
Do you have concerns that we could start to see a little bit of incremental softening if the mild weather we've seen for most of the fall here continue deeper into the quarter? Scot you hit it.
Our - we did see slight deceleration as the quarter progressed.
We had a really strong both June and July saw a little bit of a downtick slight downtick in August and September.
It's early yet but we're certainly optimistic that the quarter will come in as we projected.
But I think as Tom mentioned in his comments in the overall environment that we're in we are in a - we are definitely in a grind it out kind of mode right now as we go into the fourth quarter.
So would you attribute the little bit of deceleration that we saw in auto to weather or was it something else just so it's kind of clear for everyone? No I don't think it's tied to weather Scot.
Actually the weather throughout the summer and even into September we had I think a warmer than normal summer which resulted in some good numbers for us and categories like air conditioning was strong batteries were solid in the quarter.
So no I don't think it attributable to weather at all.
Well you've mentioned before that you guys are exposed to more industrial related to stuff in NAPA than maybe some of your competitors are.
Is that where you are seeing it some of the items that you've mentioned before on that front? No as I mentioned in a previous question where we are seeing softness it is directly in some of the more dominant oil and gas markets Southwest for sure some of the mountain areas which includes some of the fracking country up in the Dakotas and Montana.
We do - do a lot of business in the fleet Scot.
We do a lot of heavy duty business.
We do a lot of heavy duty filter business and we are seeing some fairly significant declines in those categories in those markets.
Okay I knew you mentioned the geography.
I was just trying to clarify on the product.
That's helpful.
And then previously I think as Carol mentioned you guys are comfortable with the receivables.
Can you help us understand how much exposure you have to some of these troubled end markets? You've referenced mining oil gas etc.
and is there a point where you start to consider changes to terms to some of these customers as you try and protect against potential losses just given the strain on some of their own balance sheets? Actually we very closely monitor accounts receivable and certainly what you are speaking about in the industrial area right now we're not taking steps additional steps to modify anything.
But I can tell you its just a constant focus on our receivables.
We feel like we're in pretty good shape.
We actually already have an outlook and an estimate for what our full year bad debt expense will be and we don't have anything that we're concerned about.
I think our customers and the terms that we have we have a pretty close insight as to what's going on.
So I wouldn't see anything there.
Got you.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
All right.
I've got just one last point.
Keep in mind that I think across the enterprise our team has done a very good job in accounts receivable management.
Carol pointed out earlier that we are down 1% in receivables year-over-year which I think is a pretty good job.
Thanks Tom.
I appreciate that.
We'd like to thank everybody for participating in this quarter's conference call.
And if you have any further questions let us know.
But we appreciate your interest in and support of the company and we look forward to talking to you again after our fourth quarter earnings in February.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Genuine Parts Company Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to Sid Jones Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for the Genuine Parts Company fourth quarter 2015 conference call to discuss our earnings results and outlook for 2016.
Before we begin this morning please be advised that this call may involve forward-looking statements regarding the company and its businesses.
The company's actual results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to several important factors described in the company's latest SEC filings.
The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made during this call.
We will begin this morning with comments from Tom Gallagher our Chairman and CEO.
Tom? Thank you Sid and I would like to add my welcome to each of you on the call today and to say that we appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning.
Paul Donahue GPC's President along with Carol Yancey our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and I will each handle a portion of today's call.
And once we've completed our individual comments we'll look forward to addressing any specific questions that you may have.
Earlier this morning we released our fourth quarter and year-end results and hopefully you've all had an opportunity to review them.
But for those who may not have seen the numbers as yet a quick recap shows sales for the quarter were $3.682 billion which was down 4% with negative currency impact accounting for 3% of this decrease.
Net income was $161.3 million which was down 3%.
Earnings per share were $1.07 this year which was even with last year and currency negatively impacted the EPS by $0.03 per share in the quarter.
For the full year sales were $15.280 billion which was down four-tenths of 1% with currency costing us 3 points of revenue growth.
Net income was $706 million which was down just under 1% and earnings per share were $4.63 this year compared to $4.61 in 2014.
And for the full year the currency impact was $0.14.
After several years of solid performances 2015 proved to be a more challenging year for us largely attributable to the combination of the significant slowdown experienced in our Industrial and Electrical businesses and the impact of unfavorable currency exchange primarily on our Automotive business.
Fortunately as you'll hear from Paul in a few minutes the underlying fundamentals remain positive for the Automotive segment and each of our Automotive businesses are turning in solid local currency results.
The Industrial Operations are our second-largest business segment representing 30% of total company sales in this past year and at the end of the year down 3%.
And as we reported over the course of the year we saw a sequential revenue deceleration as the year progressed.
After being up 3% in the first quarter the Industrial Operations were down 2% in Q2 down 4% in Q3 and down 8% in the fourth quarter and these results are reflective of the sluggish end-market conditions encountered by many of our Industrial customers.
Customers in the oil and gas original equipment manufacturing iron and steel and heavy equipment rental were all down double-digits with us for a year.
And as a point of information the fourth quarter decreases were even more significant than the full-year declines indicating the ongoing challenges faced by customers in each of these segments.
Conversely customers in aggregate in cements food products Automotive lumber and wood products all generated positive results for us this past year.
And then looking ahead we would expect positive results from each of these customer categories in 2016 as well.
At the same time however our expectation is for continued declines from customers in the oil and gas original equipment manufacturing iron and steel and heavy equipment rental categories for several more quarters which will certainly be a headwind to our overall sales results.
In an effort to offset this our Industrial team remains focused on key elements of their sales strategy including share of wallet initiatives with existing customers expansion of our customer base product line extensions and expanding our geographic footprint and product capabilities through acquisitions.
And on this last point we're pleased to report two acquisitions that are scheduled to close on March 1 with combined revenue of approximately $50 million and both companies nicely complement Motion's existing business and they would help our growth rates over the remainder of the year.
Moving on to our Electrical segment EIS ended the year with sales of $751 million which was up 2% and represents 5% of total company revenues.
As with Motion EIS had mixed results among their segments.
Customers in the wire and cable and fabrication sides of the business generated nice increases while customers in the Electrical side had decreases.
The Electrical segment represents about 40% of EIS's total revenue and similar to Motion we are probably a few quarters away from seeing stabilization in this segment.
In the meantime they're employing many of the same growth strategies as Motion including acquisitions and our expectation is to be in a position to announce a $50-million-plus acquisition in the weeks ahead which will certainly have a nice positive impact on the EIS results in 2016.
And a few comments on our Office Products Group which represents 13% of total company sales in 2015.
They ended the year with sales of just over $1.9 billion and this was up 7.5%.
The Office Products growth was fueled by incremental acquisition revenue and strong double-digit growth from the mega channel.
Our independent reseller business was down low-single digits for the year with most of this decrease coming in the second half of the year.
On the product side we had double-digit growth for the year in furniture and facility and breakroom supplies and mid-single-digit growth in our core Office Product supplies.
And we are pleased with the progress made in each of these categories.
Technology products were flat for the year.
And looking at our Office Products results over the course of the year it was really a tale of two halves with first half revenues being up 16% and second half revenues being up just slightly.
The outsized first half increases were driven by the aforementioned incremental acquisition volume and increased revenue from the mega channel that was anniversaried early in Q3.
And then we feel our second half results are more reflective of the ongoing underlying sluggish conditions in the Office Products industry.
Many of the ongoing issues within the industry are secular in nature and as a result our team continues to work on market share and share of wallet initiatives product line additions and extensions product and channel diversification as well as strategic acquisitions.
You will recall that we completed the acquisition of Malt Industries late in 2015.
Malt is a distributor of safety supplies and protective apparel with annual sales of about $20 million.
We are pleased with their progress to date.
This acquisition helped to further diversify our product and channel portfolios and we will pursue additional acquisition opportunities to continue the strategy in the quarters ahead.
So that's a quick overview of the non-Automotive segments and Paul will now give you an update on the Automotive results.
Paul? Thank you Tom.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
I'm pleased to be with you here today and to have an opportunity to provide you an update on our fourth quarter performance of our Automotive business.
For the quarter ending December 31 our global Automotive sales were down 2% year-over-year.
This performance consists of approximately 2.5% in core Automotive growth and a slight benefit from acquisitions.
However this was offset by a currency headwind of approximately 5% in the fourth quarter which is consistent with the impact of currency we saw throughout 2015.
Our U.S.
team posted a 2% sales increase in the fourth quarter compared with 3% growth experienced through the first nine months of 2015.
Our international businesses which include Canada Mexico Australia and New Zealand reported another quarter of mid-single-digit growth in local currency.
Despite challenging local economies we remain encouraged by the steady and consistent growth we are experiencing across all of our international markets.
We see no reason for this not to continue in 2016.
In the U.S.
our results varied by geographical region.
Our business in the Northeast Florida Central and Western regions of the country continue to deliver solid results.
The Midwest Mountain and Southwest regions of the country all came in below our expectations.
Given our strong commercial presence with fleets including many in the battered oil and gas sector we felt the effects across many of our stores throughout the Mountain and Southwest regions.
Particularly hard-hit were stores in Texas Oklahoma Montana and the Dakotas.
We also are seeing the effects across many of our stores in Western Canada.
We would also add the above-average temperatures experienced in the fourth quarter across the Midwest and Mountain regions negatively impacted our winter goods sales.
So now let's turn to our same-store sales for the fourth quarter.
Our U.S.
company-owned store grew comp store sales in the fourth quarter by 2%.
This compares to the 3% comp store increase we reported through nine months.
Cadence of the quarter saw our team post solid results in both October and December.
In fact we were encouraged as we entered the fourth quarter as October same-stores sales were our second-best results of the year.
The month of November proved to be the outlier and we believe warmer-than-normal temps in the month caused this downturn.
This quarter's 2% increase is on top of the 7% increase generated in the fourth quarter of 2014 giving us a two-year stack of 9%.
This increase was driven by a combination of gains on both our commercial side of our business as well as by our retail business.
So let's start with our retail results.
As mentioned in our Q3 call we continue to expand or revamp DIY initiatives across our company-owned store group.
These initiatives include installing new interior layouts and graphics extended store hours increased training for our store associates and the nationwide launch of our NAPA Rewards Program to name just a few.
And while we are in the early days of rolling out these initiatives we are pleased with the initial results.
Our plans call for us to expand our 20-store impact pilot in 2016 to include an additional 150 company-owned stores.
These initiatives are having a positive impact on our results.
And for the fourth quarter we can report a total increase of 5% in our retail business.
Coupling this 5% increase with the 11% increase we posted in Q4 of 2014 gives us a two-year stack of 16%.
For the full year our retail business was up 6%.
These gains are being driven by both transaction and basket size increases.
In Q4 we experienced a mid-single-digit increase in our average retail ticket and a significant jump in the number of retail tickets.
Moving along to our core commercial wholesale business.
This segment of our Automotive business posted a 2% increase in the fourth quarter and a two-year stack of 8%.
So for the year we can report a 3% increase in our commercial business.
The core elements of this segment continue to center around our Major Account business and our NAPA AutoCare business.
In 2015 we expanded our AutoCare membership count which now totals 16 300-plus across the U.S.
Both our AutoCare and Major Account businesses generated mid-single-digit growth for the year.
We believe the slowdown in the Industrial sector had a material impact on our fleet business in the quarter.
This business was up just 1% after delivering 3-plus percent increases in the previous three quarters.
Our Q4 two-year stack on our fleet business now stands at 6%.
Our wholesale ticket trend was consistent with what we experienced in the third quarter.
Our average wholesale ticket value was up mid-single digits with little or no benefit from inflation while we saw a slight decline in the number of tickets moving through our stores.
So now let's take a look at a few of our key product categories and review the trends we experienced in the fourth quarter.
Our brakes category was a highlight again in the quarter and it has been a strong category for us all year.
The brakes category grew low-double digits for us in the fourth quarter.
And we also saw experienced  we also experienced solid growth in our tool and equipment business.
An area of concern would be in our battery business which was off slightly in the quarter.
We believe this is attributable to the warmer winter temperatures.
And we can report this business has now bounced back in the month of January and our team drove a double-digit increase in the month of January.
We continue to be encouraged with the strong growth we are experiencing from our NAPA import parts business.
This business was up high-single digits in the quarter and posted double-digit growth for the year.
On February 1 we announced the acquisition of Olympus Imported Parts.
Olympus is a 30-year business specializing in professional-grade import auto parts.
They currently operate out of six locations in the Northern Virginia and Greater D.C.
area and generate approximately $25 million in annualized revenues.
This business will be a nice complement to our growing NAPA import business as well as our Altrom import parts business.
We'd like to extend a warm welcome to Mike Brown and the entire Olympus team to Genuine Parts Company.
We'd also like to provide you with an update on a previously discussed acquisition target.
During our third quarter call we reviewed with you the pending acquisition of Covs Parts a 25-branch distribution company based in Western Australia.
While we had hoped to close this transaction in the fourth quarter we encountered regulatory approval delays moving the expected close of this transaction to no later than April 1 of this year.
With approval for 21 branches the addition of Covs Parts further expands our market presence and scale in Western Australia and is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $70 million.
This acquisition will expand our industry-leading presence in Australia and New Zealand and puts us over the 500-store mark.
We are proud of our team in Asia Pacific and look forward to another solid year from this business in 2016.
As we look to the immediate future strategic M&amp;A will continue to be a growth lever for our Automotive businesses both in the U.S.
and abroad.
Turning to the trends we are seeing across the U.S.
Automotive aftermarket.
The fundamental drivers of our business continue to be positive.
The average age of the fleet remains in excess of 11 years.
The size of the fleet continues to grow lower fuel prices remain favorable for the consumer and miles driven continues to post substantial gain.
Miles driven actually increased 3.5% through the first 11 months of the year which is a new record.
In addition the latest month with reported figures is November which was up 4.3% year-over-year also a new record.
This now makes 21 consecutive months of increases in miles driven and it certainly is driving  these key metrics are driven by lower fuel cost.
The natural  the national average price of gas in 2015 was $2.40 per gallon which was the second lowest annual average in the past 10 years.
Gas prices continue to move downward and in the most part of the U.S.
today they average less than $2 a gallon.
These low gas prices should bode well for future increases in both miles driven and ultimately driving additional parts purchases.
In closing we are pleased to show positive underlying Automotive growth for both the quarter and the year in a challenging economic environment.
And we are encouraged with the start of the New Year as our sales in January were more in line with our historical run rates.
We remain hopeful we can carry this momentum through to the end of the quarter and the balance of 2016.
As we move into 2016 our plans call for expanding our business with our key commercial platforms NAPA AutoCare and Major Accounts executing our retail strategy and driving global expansion via new store openings as well as targeted strategic acquisitions.
I want to thank our teams of both in North America as well as Australasia for their efforts and appreciate all they do for the GPC Automotive business.
So that completes our overview of the GPC Automotive business.
And at this time I'll hand the call over to Carol to get us started with a review of our financial results.
Carol? Thank you Paul and good morning.
We will begin with a review of our fourth quarter and full-year income statements and the segment information and then we'll review some key balance sheet and other financial items.
As Tom mentioned our total revenues of $3.7 billion for the fourth quarter were down 4% and consist of a decrease in underlying sales of 2% a currency headwind of 3% and acquisitions contributed 1%.
For the year total revenues of $15.3 billion consisted of core sales growth of 1.5% and a 1% contribution from acquisitions offset by a 3% currency headwind.
Our gross profit for the fourth quarter was 29.75% down from 30.0% gross margin last year.
And for the year gross margin of 29.8% compared to 29.9% reported last year.
Primarily our gross margins for the fourth quarter and the full-year benefited from improved margins in our Automotive Office and Electrical businesses but our growth in these segments was offset by the continued pressure of lower supplier incentives earned in our Industrial business.
This directly related to the sluggish sales environment and lower inventory purchases for this group.
We recognize the need for additional progress on this line and the importance of executing on our gross margin initiatives.
This is a key priority for our management team and we remain committed to an enhanced gross margin for the long term.
Our gross margin initiatives are critical to offset the low inflationary environment that has persisted across our businesses for several years now especially in Automotives.
Our cumulative supplier price changes in 2015 were negative two-tenths  20 basis points two-tenths of 1% for Automotive positive 90 basis points for Industrial positive 60 basis points for Office Products and negative 1.75% for Electrical.
Turning to SG&amp;A our total expenses for the fourth quarter were $834 million or 22.65% of sales which is a 40-basis-point improvement from the prior year.
For the full year our total expenses of $3.4 billion at 22.46% of sales or a 20-basis-point improvement.
The improvement in our SG&amp;A expenses reflects the positive impact of our cost control measures across all of our businesses.
Additionally we had added savings of lower incentive compensation in the fourth quarter relative to 2014.
Overall our cost reduction initiatives were partially offset by the deleveraging of expenses in our Industrial business as well as the increases in expenses across the company in areas such as employee benefits and retirement plans and healthcare.
Our teams remain focused on controlling expenses and we continue to take actions to further improve our productivity and streamline our operations.
We expect to show continued progress on this line in the periods ahead.
If we look at our results for the segment our Automotive revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.9 billion down 2% from the prior year.
Our operating profit of $169 million is up 12.5% and their margin improved a strong 110 basis points due to the improved gross margins and expense control.
For the year Automotive sales of $8 billion are down 1%.
Our operating profit of $729 million is up 4% and our margin has improved by 40 basis points to 9.1% so a solid margin expansion for Automotive in 2015.
Our Industrial sales of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter a decrease of 8%.
Our operating profit of $72 million is down 24.8% and our operating margin was down 150 basis points to 6.5%.
For the year Industrial sales of $4.6 billion are down 2.6% from the prior year and our operating profit of $339 million is down 8.3% and our margin was 7.3% which is down 50 basis points from last year.
This is driven by a lower incentives and expense deleverage which pressured this group throughout the year but at a greater amount in the fourth quarter.
Our Office Products revenues were $459 million in the quarter down 2%.
Our operating profit of $33 million is down 5% and their operating margin of 7.3% is down 20 basis points.
For the year Office revenues of $1.9 billion are up 7.5% from the prior year.
Our operating profit of $141 million is up 5% and our margin of 7.3% is down 10 basis points from last year.
The Electrical Group had sales in the quarter of $177 million which is basically flat with the prior year.
Our operating profit of $16 million is up 6.7% so the margin for this group showed strong growth of 60 basis points to 9.1%.
For the year sales for this group of $751 million are up 1.6% and their operating profit of $70 million is up 9% and their margin improved to 9.3% which is a solid 50-basis-point increase from the prior year.
For both the fourth quarter and the full year our total operating margin improved by 10 basis points.
For the quarter the margin was 7.9% compared to 7.8%; and for the year 8.4% compared to 8.3%.
This improvement in 2015 follows our 30-basis-point expansion in 2014 and given this current sales environment we're very pleased with our continued progress in this area.
Looking ahead further margin expansion remains a key goal for the company.
We had net interest expense of $4.3 million in the quarter and for the 12 months interest expense was $20.4 million which compares to $24.2 million in 2014.
For 2016 we currently estimate net interest expense to approximate $21 million to $22 million for the full year.
Our total amortization expense of $9 million for the fourth quarter and $35 million for the full year is down slightly from 2014.
We currently estimate total amortization expense of $36 million to $38 million for the full year in 2016.
Our depreciation of $27 million for the fourth quarter and $107 million for the full year and for 2016 we're projecting this to be approximately $120 million to $130 million.
So combined depreciation and amortization looking ahead would be in the range of $155 million to $170 million.
The other line which primarily reflects our corporate expense was $16.3 million for the quarter which is up slightly from the prior-year quarter.
For the full year our corporate expense is $100.4 million which is consistent with our expectations and up from the $90 million in the prior year.
Primarily unfavorable retirement plan valuation adjustments of $7 million and planned IT-related investments accounted for the increase on this line.
Turning to 2016 we expect the corporate expense line to be in the $110 million to $120 million range for the full year.
Our tax rate was 38.35% for the fourth quarter and 37.2% for the full year.
These rates are up from 2014 due to the changes in mix of our foreign income and the related foreign tax rates as well as the unfavorable retirement plan valuation adjustments recorded through the first nine months of 2015.
We currently expect our tax rates to approximate 37% for the full year in 2016.
Our net income for the quarter of $161.3 million and our EPS of $1.07 was equal to the prior year.
And for the year our EPS of $4.63 was up slightly from the $4.61 for last year.
Now let's talk about the balance sheet which we strengthened in the fourth quarter with effective working capital management and strong cash flows.
Our cash at December was $212 million which is an increase from the $138 million at December 31 last year.
Our cash position continues to support our growth initiatives across all of our distribution businesses.
Accounts receivable of $1.8 billion at December 31 is down 3% from the prior year on a 4% decrease in sales in the fourth quarter.
We continue to closely manage our receivables and remain satisfied with the quality of our receivables at this time.
Our inventory at the end of the quarter was $3 billion down 1% from the prior year.
Our team continues to do a very good job of managing our inventory levels and we will remain focused on maintaining this key investment at the appropriate levels as we move forward in 2016.
Accounts payable at December 31 was $2.8 billion up 10% and this is due to the positive impact of our improved payment terms and other payables initiatives established with our vendors.
We're pleased with our continued improvement in this area and we're encouraged by the positive impact on our working capital and days and payables.
Our working capital of $1.6 billion at December 31 has significantly improved from the prior year in both absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues.
Our progress in this area contributed significantly to our record cash flows for the year.
Effectively managing our working capital and in particular accounts receivable inventory and accounts payable remains a high priority for our company.
Our total debt of $625 million at December 31 is down approximately $140 million from the $765 million in the prior year.
Our debt includes two $250 million term notes as well as another $125 million in borrowings under our multicurrency revolving line of credit.
Our debt-to-capitalization is at 16.5% and we're comfortable with our capital structure at this time.
We believe it provides our company with both the financial capacity and the flexibility necessary to take advantage of the growth opportunities we may want to pursue.
So in summary our balance sheet is in excellent condition and remains a key strength of the company.
We generated record cash flows in 2015 driven in part by our improvement in working capital.
Cash from operations was $1.2 billion and free cash flow which deducts capital expenditures and dividends was $682 million.
This is a meaningful accomplishment for us.
And for 2016 we're currently planning for another strong year of cash flows.
We would expect cash from operations to be in the $900 million to $1 billion range and free cash flow of approximately $400 million to $450 million.
We remain committed to several ongoing priorities for the use of our cash which we believe serves to maximize shareholder value.
Our priorities for cash includes strategic acquisitions share repurchases reinvestment in our businesses and the dividend.
Strategic acquisitions remain an ongoing and important use of cash for us and they're integral to the growth plans of our company.
In 2015 we made a number of strategic acquisitions to expand our distribution footprint and in total these new businesses are expected to contribute $180 million in annual revenues.
Thus far in 2016 we've added the Olympus Imported Parts distribution business as covered by Paul.
And looking forward in 2016 we will continue to seek new acquisition opportunities across all of our distribution businesses to further enhance our prospects for future growth.
Although many of these opportunities will continue to be bolt-on-type companies with annual revenues in the $25 million to $150 million range we are still open-minded to new complementary distribution businesses of all sizes large and small assuming the appropriate returns on investment.
Turning to our share repurchases in 2015 we used our cash to repurchase 3.3 million shares of our stock under our share repurchase program.
Through today we have also purchased another 570 000 shares of stock and today we have 5.7 million shares authorized and available for repurchase.
While we have no set pattern for these repurchases we have been slightly more aggressive with our repurchases given the value of our stock price over the last 12 months to 14 months.
We expect to remain active in the program in the periods ahead and continue to believe that our stock is an attractive investment and combined with the dividend provides the best returns to our shareholders.
Our investment and capital expenditures was $48 million for the fourth quarter which is an increase from the $34 million in the prior year.
For the year our capital spending was $110 million up slightly from the prior year.
We are currently planning for capital expenditures to increase further in 2016 to approximately $140 million to $160 million with the vast majority of our investments weighted towards productivity enhancing projects primarily in technology.
Effective yesterday the board approved a $2.63 per share annual dividend for 2016 marking our 60th consecutive year of increased dividends paid to our shareholders.
This represents a 7% increase from the $2.46 per share and is approximately 57% of our prior year earnings.
This was slightly above our stated goal of a payout ratio of 50% to 55% but we're comfortable going beyond this range from time to time due to our strong cash flows.
So this concludes our financial update for the fourth quarter and the full year.
And in summary we operated in 2015 with relatively mixed results.
That said we improved the strength of our balance sheet with excellent working capital management and effective cost control measures helped us produce an expanded operating profit margin.
Additionally we generated record cash flows and a record earnings per share for 2015.
These are meaningful accomplishments and our progress in these areas supports our investment and growth opportunities such as acquisitions as well as the return of capital to our shareholders with the dividend and share repurchases.
We look forward to updating you on our future progress in the periods ahead.
And I'd like to thank all of our GPC associates for their hardwork and their commitment to their jobs.
I'll turn it now back over to Tom.
Thank you Carol.
So that will conclude our prepared comments on 2015.
And in closing we would say as mentioned earlier that it was a challenging year in many ways but a gratifying year in other ways.
Our revenue production in local currencies was solid across our Automotive businesses as it was in Office Products but Industrial and Electrical found it more difficult.
We were pleased to see strong operating margin improvements in Automotive and Electrical but we had operating margin declines in Office Products and Industrial.
We were however able to show a 10-basis-point improvement for GPC overall despite the Office Products and Industrial challenges.
Gross profit was down 12 basis points for the year but good work was done on the SG&amp;A side and SG&amp;A was down 20 basis points.
As a result pre-tax income was up slightly but due to the higher tax rate that Carol explained net income was down slightly.
On the balance sheet side the progress was more consistent with cash from operations and free cash both setting new records and working capital was reduced once again in 2015.
And we returned well over $600 million back to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
And we reinvested over $225 million back into the business through a combination of capital expenditures and acquisitions and we expect to invest an additional $125 million in acquisitions over the next few months.
And these CapEx and acquisition investments are intended to drive revenue and profit growth in the quarters ahead.
Now turning to the year ahead as a general statement we would say that we remain quite cautious in our outlook.
The general economic conditions look a bit fragile and perhaps tenuous both domestically and globally.
And as mentioned earlier this is already having a significant impact on certain segments of our customer base primarily in Industrial and Electrical.
Conversely we think that the outlook for our Automotive segment is generally favorable but the currency impact will once again be a headwind to our Automotive growth in 2015.
With all of that said at this point we would expect our 2016 revenues to be up 2% to 3% in Automotive with a currency headwind of 3%; Industrial up 1% to 2%; Electrical up 1% to 2%; Office Products down 1% to up 1%; giving us a total GPC revenue expectation of being up 1% to 2% and up 3% to 4% before the currency impact.
And with revenue growth at these levels we would suggest an EPS range of $4.70 to $4.80 which will be up 1.5% to 3.5% after currency exchange impact of approximately $0.08 per share and before the currency exchange impact would be up 3% to 5% on a constant currency basis.
At this point we'd like to address your questions and we'll turn the call back to Chris.
Thank you.
And we will take our first question from Elizabeth Suzuki of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Just wondering how much of the SG&amp;A leverage in the fourth quarter was the result of lower stock compensation? And what other cost reductions were made in order to generate the impressive operating margins in the quarter? Elizabeth we would talk about that.
I guess I would say primarily it's more coming in the areas of productivity improvements and we've talked a lot about the investments we've made in technology and productivity things and that would be both on our warehouses and our stores.
Also I would point out additional leverage in our shared services and areas we're doing there.
Even in our freight we look at freight and optimization of our routes fuel prices we had improvement there.
And then even bringing on some of the acquisitions.
We're able to bring them on and put them on what we call the GPC programs and we get the benefit of better pricing for those folks.
So to a lesser extent you'd have the impact of lower bonuses and commissions and then kind of a tightening up that we do like on travel and some areas such as that.
Okay great.
So stock comp wasn't really a material benefit? It's really a combination of all those things.
That was certainly not the primary.
It's more in the productivity and some of the things that we're doing in improving our cost overall.
Okay great.
And for the Automotive segment you noted that there was a weather impact in the fourth quarter since it was relatively warm through December.
Do you think that should reverse in the first quarter so that the average of 4Q and 1Q would be about the same year-over-year from a weather perspective? Yeah.
Elizabeth this is Paul.
We'd certainly hope to see it.
What we're seeing in the early part of the year is encouraging.
And certainly the folks up in the Northeast Boston New York are feeling the impact of colder temps returning and we're seeing a bit of it in the Midwest as well.
So absolutely we are encouraged with some of the weather changes we're seeing.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
We go next to Seth Basham of Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Hey Seth.
Good morning Seth.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question is on auto just trying to understand a little bit better your expectations for 2016.
You're looking for a growth of 2% to 3% on revenues with a 3% FX headwind.
So looking for core growth in the mid-single digit range is that correct? That's right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
In terms of the drivers of that core growth weather might normalize a little bit but are there any other initiatives that you can speak to that could help improve your business in 2016 relative to 2015? Well Paul and I might double team this.
But in his comments he highlighted several things that we think are going to give us some good production in the year ahead.
He talked about the top store initiative and we'll add 150 of those this coming year and that will certainly be a benefit to us.
So we've got other new distribution initiatives that will also help us.
Paul mentioned some of the growth we're experiencing with NAPA AutoCare and with Major Accounts; we would expect that to continue in the year ahead.
Our import program is performing well and we did add Olympus the recent acquisition so that will fuel growth there.
So just a number of different things that we expect to have a positive impact as we go ahead.
Yeah.
I would add to that Tom.
We  Seth we'll continue to be opportunistic and fairly aggressive on the acquisition front both in the U.S.
as well as international as evident by our Covs acquisition.
We do hope to close that here very soon in Australia.
And we continue to expand our presence in Mexico as well and as you know we launched our NAPA initiative down there in late 2014.
It's early yet but we remain encouraged by what we see in those markets as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Just to quantify it approximately how much do you expect acquisitions to contribute to auto revenues in 2016? The only one we've included in our guidance is Olympus.
And just as a general statement we normally will not include anything that we've not got a very very high degree of confidence.
And we've got a letter of intent and we've got a closing date so we included Olympus.
On the Industrial side we included the two acquisitions that will close on March 1.
But beyond that we've not included any of the others in the guidance that we've given you.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it thank you.
And then my second question really good performance on cash flow in 2015.
As you look forward it seems like you're expecting much higher at least percentage increase in CapEx and may not see as much payables leverage.
Can you help us understand those two moving pieces to your cash flow expectations? Yeah.
Talk about CapEx first.
I mean some of the CapEx and you saw that we were lower than what our guidance was for 2015 some of that is the timing of projects.
But I would specifically call out we have a couple distribution center refreshes relocations where we're enhancing again the productivity.
And so that's built into there.
And then some of our IT investments that we've talked about and certainly in the warehouse management area.
But again some of it is the timing on projects.
But we're certainly comfortable with the range we've given.
And then you mentioned on the improvements for cash flow I mean one of our sources of cash from operations was in the decrease in accounts receivable.
We had almost a $200 million source from accounts receivable more related to our decrease in sales.
So that's why we're guiding to a little bit lower number because we think that receivables won't be as much of a help to us in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much and good luck.
Thanks Seth.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Greg Melich of Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
I had a quick follow-up for Carol and then I wanted to ask Paul and Tom a couple one thing.
Carol on the working capital the AP-to-inventory ratio also improved a lot.
Was there something there in timing or do you think that could get to 100% from I guess what's now a little over 90%? Yeah.
We were pleased to see that be at 94% at the end of the year and as you mentioned improvements from the 84% the prior year.
We don't have a set target for 2016 but I would tell you that we certainly would expect continued improvement.
And there wasn't anything that drove that in particular in the fourth quarter.
We continue to see improvement across all of our businesses.
And that was really done despite lower inventory purchases in the Industrial sector too Good.
So that still has room to go it sounds like? It does.
Great.
And then I'm not sure Paul or Tom who wants it but if you think about this year and the guidance and some of the history of weather if I go back to 2012 which I think is the last time we had a winter that was kind of mild to start your comps decelerate I think maybe 400 basis points over a couple of quarters.
Help us understand why this time could be different or why we expect that auto should hold in there for the next couple of quarters? And I also wanted to make sure Tom you said Industrial would be up 1% to 2% this year.
What accounts for that inflection from at least the second half of 2015's trend? Thanks a lot.
Okay.
We'll take the Automotive first.
I think we're basing our guidance more on some of the underlying strategies than we are on any weather impact.
And the issues that  or the initiatives that Paul and I detailed just a moment ago I think are the primary reasons that we've guided to the levels we've guided at.
So I think we're pretty comfortable at those levels as we work our way through 2016.
In terms of the inflection in Industrial there are two things.
Again the comment I made about we'll be adding $50 million of annualized revenue as of March 1 with the two acquisitions that we're making that's one thing.
And then the second thing it's  six weeks does not a trend make by any stretch.
But what we saw on a per day basis in January and what we've seen through mid-month February is a little bit better than what we experienced certainly in Q4 of this past year.
And the other thing is not included in the guidance would be an expectation that we might be able to make another acquisition or two over the course of the year in Industrial.
Great.
And that bit better on a per-day basis was that more in the oil and gas and some of the areas that have been weak? Or is it already there? Has it already been positively improved? No I think it's more across those segments that have held up reasonably well.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Good luck.
Right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks Greg.
Our next question comes from Matthew Fassler of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
My first question relates to capital allocation and you're use of free cash.
I think I detected a change at least in the rhetoric and prioritization.
Historically you've always cited the dividend first and today you cited strategic acquisitions and went into some depth in that.
So is that my imagination or is there some intent? Obviously you've been raising the dividend for many many decades and that I know is not expected to change but does that speak to an increased focus on strategic deals for you? Well I don't know that it necessarily signals an increased focus but there's a heavy emphasis and focus on strategic acquisitions right now and we've actually got more discussions going than we had at certain points in the past.
So we're encouraged by the number of conversations that we're engaged in and we would expect a certain number of those to come to fruition.
And quite frankly I think if we had 2015 to play over we might have been even more aggressive on the acquisition front but we just didn't find  we're unable to engage in enough discussions.
But I think we've gotten that sorted out and we're pleased with the level of activity we see there right now.
So I don't think it at all indicates reduced interest in increasing the dividend lower reduced interest in appropriate levels of share repurchase or CapEx expenditures across the businesses but we're bit more optimistic about our opportunities on the acquisition right now than it might have been this time last year.
And Tom would you expect most of your deals to be of similar size to the kinds of transactions that we have noted over the past several years in terms of general range? Yes.
I would say that's right.
However as Carol mentioned if we would have find something larger that made sense for the shareholders then we would certainly like the opportunity to engage in that discussion.
And the nice thing about our balance sheet is that we've got the wherewithal to fund acquisitions that are larger.
Got it.
And then shifting gears just digging a little bit deeper into the Automotive P&amp;L you had quite a move in the profitability of that business in the absence of any kind of sales momentum.
I understand that last year's margin compare in Automotive was somewhat depressed so that might help the year-on-year compare but can you just give us a little more color on what helped you generate that Automotive profitability? Yeah.
I would call out  so in the quarter I would say that of the 110 basis point improvement a third of that came from gross margin and two-thirds was from SG&amp;A.
So our core gross profit and we've called this out before we've seen continued quarterly improvement in our core gross profits for Automotive.
And that's both in the U.S.
and our international businesses and there has been specific things done in our foreign businesses to really take control of gross profit especially with the headwinds that they've had on the strong U.S.
dollar.
And then two-thirds of the improvement came from SG&amp;A and it's some of the things that we called out earlier.
So again Automotive has done a terrific job on the productivity side.
And again calling out some specific things they've done with investments in technology and systems and the warehouses and the stores.
And then also again the freight we've talked about route optimizations in some of those areas.
And then to a lesser extent you had lower bonuses and incentives that impacted that in the quarter as well.
And were there reversals of any accruals in that business of year-to-date numbers that perhaps went the other way in Q4? There weren't anything else that we haven't already called out.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Matthew.
From JPMorgan next we turn to Mark Becks.
Hi.
The sales outlook of plus 1% to 2% in earnings that seems to imply kind of flat to up slightly EBIT margins.
Is that in fact accurate? And then how does that parse out between Automotive and Industrial? Presumably Automotive would be expected to be up a little and then on the other side Industrial I guess would be expected to be down slightly? Is that the way to think about it? Mark I guess we are probably implying  what we would imply is that we'd have some slight improvement in our operating margins.
And I think what you called out is we would expect probably to see that depending on the top line more in the other sectors than the Industrial ones.
But we're more implying for a slight improvement on the operating margin.
I mean we've called out we still have our corporate expense numbers a little higher.
But again I think we can be up slightly with what we're targeting.
Okay.
And then I guess the other side of the ledger with Matt's question you guys have been steadfastly committed to the dividend.
I think you have a targeted payout ratio of 50% to 55%.
And with your dividend announcement today it takes you slightly outside.
Given your proven ability with strong cash flows why is the 50% to 55% the right number? And then would you have any considerations for taking that up? I'll try to answer that Mark.
This is Tom.
First of all the 50% to 55% is somewhat of an informal stated objective and over time we've come to conclude that a payout at that level is a reward and return back to the shareholder while at the same time leaving us adequate funding to do the other things that we want to get done.
So yes we're slightly above that.
I think we're 57% of prior-year earnings with the recent dividend increase.
I don't think you'll see us take that up materially from there.
I think we'll take that the capital that we're generating the cash we're generating and invest it in some of these other areas.
Understood.
And then last quick clarification for Carol.
You have that $250 million in November due.
Any initial thoughts on that? It's still premature but our thoughts on that is that we'll probably do some type of a renewal as we get close to the end of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Up next we go to Bret Jordan of Jefferies.
Hey good morning.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning Bret.
A quick question on the top store rollout you're adding 150.
If that were successful how many of your stores do you think are applicable here? I mean how big could that concept get? So Bret we're planning on 150 this year of our company-owned stores.
We could go a bit greater in that number.
We're going to see kind of how the first half plays out.
When we've got stores that are in not exactly prime retail locations so backstreets more Industrial areas we will certainly refresh those stores but we will not go to the full top-store formats.
But right now we feel very good about our ability to roll out the 150 could expand it.
We will also  any new stores and/or any new relocations this year we will move to the new store format.
And then at the appropriate time we'll also bring in our independent owners who are ready to make that kind of a commitment as well.
Okay.
And then a question on Olympus.
I mean it's a $25 million revenue business.
Is that something that you're getting a catalog you can roll out across the rest of the network that it will contribute in that import parts category more quickly? Or is that just something you're going to grow off of a relatively small base more slowly? So Bret we are already and have had an import business inside of the NAPA network for a number of years that's Altrom.
So we've been in that space.
Olympus will be a nice bolt-on addition to that business and we'll certainly bring with it increased expertise.
They've got a great management team an experienced management team.
We've got expansion opportunities up there in that marketplace but we're excited to bring those guys on board.
Okay but there was nothing special about their catalog that you acquired that is leverageable? No.
No.
No.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
All right.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Tony Cristello of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Tony.
Morning.
I wanted to ask a follow-up on some of the discussion with M&amp;A.
It sounds as if there is certainly an acceleration and perhaps you had an appetite to maybe even have done more in 2015.
Is that a result of more willing sellers or multiples have come in? Or are there some distressed businesses out there that you feel like you can pick up and gain some market share from right now? Tony I think it's more of the former two than the last point.
We're not really bottom-fishing.
We're not looking for distressed businesses.
We're looking for businesses that give us an opportunity to expand geographically or give us product diversification and that fit us strategically for the long haul.
I think as I mentioned earlier to a prior question I think we're just seeing right now the opportunity to at least engage in more discussions with certain sellers than perhaps we had seen a year ago.
And certainly we're interested in following not just the discussions we're in now through to completion but also identifying some additional opportunities that we could add to the organization.
Has the marketplace afforded more reasonable valuations for you as well? Well yeah and I think you probably know at least we consider ourselves to be a fairly disciplined buyer and there have been times in the past where we've engaged in discussions and we couldn't chin to the valuations and feel it was appropriate for our shareholders.
But right now we seem to have a number of folks that fit in the ranges that we would use for valuation purposes.
Okay.
And switching gears a little bit if you look across your competitive landscape and each of your segments you've done an excellent job of keeping your inventory appropriate.
Do you feel your competitors are also reacting accordingly to what appears to be at least in the non-auto segments a bit more of a sluggish or challenging environment? Tony if we could  something happened where you broke up a little bit there.
Would you mind repeating the question? Sure I'm sorry.
Across the categories I was wondering from a competitive standpoint you've done a very good job on managing your inventory levels and keeping things somewhat appropriate.
When you look across some of your competitive segments and more so in the Industrial side do you believe your peers are also reacting accordingly? Well I don't know that I'd be in a position to address that honestly.
The thing that I would say is that having the right amount of inventory and the right mix of inventory is a high priority for us across all of the businesses.
And I think it's played out reasonably well for us and I expect that it'll be a heavy initiative for us going forward as well.
I can't address what the competitors are doing.
Okay.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you Tony.
Thank you Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scot Ciccarelli of RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scot.
Good morning.
So I know you don't break out CapEx by division but even as I look at the entire company your CapEx is somewhere between a half and a quarter of your biggest Automotive competitors.
And I know your model is obviously a bit different with the wholesale component but I guess the question is do you believe those levels of CapEx are sustainable number one? And number two it does appear that some of those competitors are actually accelerating their own capital investments.
So I guess in a nutshell the question is do you think you're going to need to accelerate your capital investments at some point? I would take a first stab at that and Carol may jump in.
But in the guidance that Carol provided she said $140 million to $160 million in 2016 which is up a bit from where we have been historically.
And I think for modeling purposes you could probably use that for the years after 2016.
So it is a little bit heavier.
We're investing a bit heavier.
And as Carol mentioned it's for facility refreshments to enable us to be more productive in the throughput.
It's for technology investments that enable us to either have better management information or enable us to be more productive in what we do.
And at least as we look out over the next couple of years it appears that that's an appropriate level for the next several years.
I guess I think the only other two things I'd add is one is our maintenance level of CapEx if you will the amount we need to do each year is probably more in the $100 million range.
And the other thing is we have our distribution footprint out there.
I mean we're really in all the areas we need to be.
So if anything it's  we have a lighter level of investments on real estate.
So more of ours is in the technology productivity areas with systems.
And so if we have investments in real estate it's more due to a relocation or refresh.
Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
And then you guys did talk about there's quite a bit of regional variability in the auto business obviously weather had an impact.
I'm assuming part of that is also the let's call it stores in the oil patch or energy patch.
Can you give us some more color around the magnitude of the differences experienced market by market? Yes.
Scot this is Paul.
What we saw in those markets that performed well and I think I called out the East certainly the Northeast Florida Central out West those businesses in Q4 all grew mid-single digits good solid growth.
The other end of the spectrum and I believe I called out the Southwest and the Mountains certainly impacted by oil and gas and Midwest which we believe was more weather-related were down low-single digits.
Perfect.
All right.
Thanks guys.
All right.
Thanks Scot.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Carolina Jolly of Gabelli.
Thanks guys for taking my question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
In regards to the Industrial side of the business or Motion what is your sense of inventory at your customers? And do you expect I guess any destocking going forward into 2016? Carolina I'll try to answer that one.
Most of what we sell on the Industrial side is not for customer inventory.
It's for something that they need right now.
So inventory fluctuations are not that big of a factor for us honestly.
So what we do see is we do have some customers that would hold some inventory.
And if they're a multi-location customer we do see them employing what we might call a buy  or use what we own already.
So we do see some inventory transfer among plants under the same ownership but I don't think inventory fluctuations are going to have a material effect on our demand patterns over the next year.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And with no further questions in the phone queue I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
We thank all of you for participating in today's call and we appreciate all of your support and we look forward to reporting out to you with our first quarter results in April.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you all for your participation.